ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Janja Sluga, Mrs Vojka Šergan, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Dr. Franc Trček from 12:00 to 15:00, Luka Mesec, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Andrej Chuš, Mr Jernej Vrtovac from 17:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. László Göncz until 2 p.m., Mr. Ivan Škodnik from 12 p.m. on, Mr. Franz Laj, mag. Branko Grims, Mr Sasa Tabakovic and Mr Branko Zorman until 3 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 36. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for an agreement on the programme of work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for the year 2017. In accordance with Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted to the National Assembly a work programme and a financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2017. In order to further explain the programme and the financial plan, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Director of the Agency for Energy Mag. Bugs of the Year.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Let me briefly present to you the basic tasks, guidelines and targets set by the Energy Agency as a national regulatory authority in the coming flight 2017. Slovenia is one of the countries with the most reliable energy supply. In this year's analysis of the world's energy world, it has gained one place and the World Energy Trileme Index is therefore ranked among 125 countries as the 12th place. The Energy Agency also contributes significantly to the security, security and competitive supply of energy, electricity and natural gas, as it promotes the development of safe, reliable and efficient systems for the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity, as well as for the provision of heat supply. Regulation is a dynamic process in which the current and expected situation needs to be taken into account and benefits for all energy market participants. In doing so, the customer, as one of the energy market stakeholders, remains at the forefront of the Agency all the time. In 2017, we will also focus on monitoring and analysing the implementation of the existing regulatory frameworks and analyses of economic regulation models with a view to introducing changes and innovations where necessary. Decarbonisation of the electricity system requires a comprehensive transformation of supply, consumption and the system itself into a smart system that will enable the integration of distributed production, the mass integration of renewable resources and the adjustment of demand. The role of the Agency is to promote this development through its competence. With the aim of gradually updating the regulatory methodologies, we will therefore continue to pursue consultation processes in 2017 and will gradually set the regulatory objectives that we want to achieve in the period until 2020 and will focus on the area of adjustment, the introduction of dynamic tariffs and cyber security in smart networks and the development of electromobility in the coming year, as this will have an important impact both on production and network development. While the Agency is not a direct policy maker in the area of sustainable development, its activities contribute significantly to the development of renewable energy production, as well as to the achievement of legally prescribed energy savings. Therefore, even in 2017, the Agency will make an important contribution to the development of renewable energy production through its activities, i.e. by setting up a public call to subsidise renewable energy production and by monitoring and analysing the legislative savings achieved. We will also continue with all the activities the Agency has under existing consumer protection legislation and in the field of international activities, thus contributing to improving market transparency and coordinating rules for the allocation of cross-border portability. Let me summarize for a minute. We will also act proactively in 2017, participate in the creation of national energy policy and take into account the development and trends in energy and the benefits of all energy market participants. We will also carry out our tasks cost-effectively and efficiently in 2017, so we do not foresee any additional employment or additional resources necessary for the operation of the Agency in the proposed financial plan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u3	The work programme and the financial plan were considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the parent working body, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the 2017 Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy. To present the Committee's position, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u4	Dear President, thank you for the floor, my distinguished colleague and colleague, Lady of the Year. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall be held at the 23rd meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. 11. 2016 as the parent working body considered the work programme and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2017, which was 16 years old. 9. In accordance with Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency transmitted to the National Assembly. In 2017, the Director of the Mag Agency gave an introductory explanation of the proposed document and the main emphasis on the operation or tasks of the Energy Agency. Honey year. It pointed out that the Agency will focus in the area of economic regulation in the following year and will consequently focus the largest share of activities on monitoring and analysing the implementation of regulatory frameworks in the field of electricity and natural gas. In the regulatory methodology, the Agency has gradually started to introduce additional incentives for qualified investments in smart networks supported by cost-benefit analysis at company level. In the area of sustainable development of renewable sources, a first public call will be drawn up in 2017, under which available resources will be identified through the energy balance to promote electricity production from renewable sources. They will also continue to monitor the legality of the performance of the tasks of all economic companies or energy operators and to manage disputes between network users and operators for which the Agency is responsible. In the coming year, the Agency will also carry out adaptations and development of information infrastructure and market surveillance in particular in the areas of data acquisition, market monitoring and implementation of the REMIT Regulation and carry out activities to prevent potential abuses and market manipulation. As previously mentioned, regarding the staffing plan, the Director said that the Agency did not provide for new jobs in 2017 and pointed out that the Agency’s main source of revenue was the annual compensation for the natural gas transmission network operator and the system operator of the electricity transmission system. Furthermore, the representative of the Government also participated in the work of the Committee, this is the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, who stressed that the 2017 work programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy is regarded as positive and fully supported. Mr Jernej Verbič, President of the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, stressed that the Commission supports the Agency's work programme and financial plan for 2017 and has no comments on it. There was no special debate between the members and the members of the Committee. The Committee then voted on the following proposal for a decision: The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2017 of 15. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee adopted its decision by 12 votes in favour, and no one opposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! In accordance with the provisions of the Energy Law, Member and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also confirm this year the Agency's Programme of Work and Financial Plan for Energy for 2017. This time, at the time of the examination of the programme on the home work body, there was no opposition as we saw last year, when some agencies estimated that there was an overly extensive programme of additional employment and the projected excessive operating costs. For 2017, the Agency does not plan any additional employment, nor does it plan any overexpenditure. The programme shall therefore include the tasks of the Agency in the field of the electricity market, natural gas and remote heat market to be carried out in the coming year, the financing plan necessary for the performance of the tasks, the Agency’s staffing plan and the level of compensation for the system operator and the compensation of the transmission system operator. As the Director of the Agency informed us on the Agency's working body, in the coming year, the Agency will pay particular attention, inter alia, to monitoring and analysing the implementation of regulatory frameworks on electricity and natural gas, to analysing the accounting of network and other operators' services, and to analysing economic regulatory models with a view to preparing changes as well as new developments for the next three-year regulatory framework. The agency will also try to guide the development of electromobility, which we particularly support in the Desus Group, because we are all aware that we will also have to follow global trends in Slovenia and, in order to protect the environment, increase the number of electric vehicles and consequently the number of chargers. I would like to point out here that the Agency has an important role to play in the implementation of the renewable energy policy and in the efficient use of renewable energy. Since the Agency is not a direct designer of this policy, the competent ministry must continue to work closely with the Agency in this area and take into account its proposals and views. Of course, the Agency will still carry out tasks in the field of consumer rights protection and supervision of the functioning of the energy market and control over the legality of the work of energy operators. This is, according to our assessment, one of the Agency's most important tasks, because consumers of various forms of energy are increasingly weak compared to energy suppliers. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be united in supporting the decision on the consent of the National Assembly to the Programme of Work and the 2017 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues! The Energy Agency, as the national energy market regulator, has very important tasks or responsibilities that have increased significantly since the adoption of the Energy Law in 2014. After the application of the Act, the powers of control over the functioning of the Agency have also been transferred from the Government or the competent ministry to the National Assembly, which is in accordance with the acquis of the European Union. The Agency's tasks, which are foreseen in the work programme for next year, could be somewhat narrowed down to the following sets. First time. Regulation of network activities where the Agency has a very important task of monitoring the correctness of the charging of the electricity supply network of electricity operators and the correctness of the accounting of the network of distribution system operators for the supply of natural gas. It is crucial that the networks are not charged over eligible costs, since the higher price of energy supply is then covered by end-users. In this context, it is also important to monitor the Agency, which checks that operators invest sufficiently in the capacity of distribution networks, thereby enabling efficient supply and appropriate quality of electricity or natural gas. Second, Ensure reliable natural gas supply. We know that Europe is still well dependent on the provision of natural gas from the east and therefore the new European Regulation has established a mechanism for regulatory cooperation within individual regions. The Energy Agency will thus work more closely with four regulators in neighbouring countries whose joint task will be to prepare preventive measures in the event of emergency in the supply of natural gas. Third time. Promoting the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, where the Agency has the public authority to issue declarations to investors of production plants for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources, and also decides to obtain support from such electricity producers and sets the reference price for such electricity producers. Fourth time. Effective use of energy. In this case, the Agency will verify the data of the suppliers of electricity, heat, gas and fuel to final customers and will assess these data in the light of the previously set target savings. However, it cannot be overlooked that end-users also have a share to contribute to the efficient use of energy in the case of suppliers. Fifth. The supervisory functioning of the electricity and natural gas market is a very important task where the Agency must ensure the conditions of integrity, transparency and competitiveness of energy markets. In this area, stakeholders are directly committed to the so-called REMIT Regulation by which the Agency has the responsibility and responsibility for the continuous monitoring of the market and the implementation of measures if it detects an infringement. Six. Control over the legality of the activities of energy operators, where we can talk about some of the Agency's inspection powers. It's a week. Protection of the rights of customers, where the key role of the Agency is to decide on disputes between users and operators. It must also take care to ensure that customers are properly informed, in particular, of their capabilities and rights. The Energy Agency takes into account the interests and rights of both operators and final consumers in its operation, but the Social Democrats believe that its role should be more stressed in protecting the weaker category. These are clearly final consumers. As a rule, consumers will be burdened by any unduly charged euro, such as any disturbance in the supply of energy or the delivery of poor energy mainly to its detriment, and therefore the role of the Agency in this regard is very important. Finally, we would like to point out that in the future, energy will be more closely linked at some level to social policy when we talk about the supply of different forms of energy to more vulnerable groups of consumers. We have in mind those who have such services as hard to afford or who cannot afford them at all, but they urgently need them to achieve a minimum and a decent life. The Social Democrats will support the decision on agreement to the Work Programme and the 2017 Financial Plan of the Energy Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u10	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Energy Agency, as a national energy regulator, is an important member of the energy law enforcement chain. The new tasks undertaken by the Agency under the energy law required a large amount of additional work this year in the preparation and implementation of the general acts for the more efficient functioning of the electricity and natural gas market. Since the Agency’s main source of revenue represents the annual compensation of the Plinovovoda transmission system operator, d.o.o., and the compensation of the system operator Eles, d.o.o., it is welcome that this year the Agency does not provide for any changes in the level of compensation for both operators. Nevertheless, all expected revenue will be sufficient to cover all planned expenditure in the following year. The Agency also does not provide for new jobs in 2017 and the amount for the performance of the tasks remains unchanged compared to this year. Since this means that the operation of the Energy Agency will not put an additional burden on customers of electricity and natural gas, we will give consent in Novi Slovenija to its work programme and financial plan. Nevertheless, we point out that it is one year since the implementation of the Regulation on self-sustainment of electricity from renewable energy sources, but this has not yet been implemented in practice. The use of renewable energy is becoming increasingly important both at global and national level, as most countries are aware of the limited supply of non-renewable energy sources and their impact on climate change. In order to achieve energy security, reduce exhaust and co-natural development, the European Union has set itself the objective of increasing the share of energy from renewable energy sources in gross final energy consumption to 20% by 2020. Slovenia has set itself the targets set out in the 2010-2020 Action Plan for Renewable Energy and the National Energy Programme, which foresee a 25% share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2020. Since we are still very far from this objective, the failure to implement this regulation is worrying. In order for households and small business customers not to decide in large numbers for such energy, the government must find reasons on its side. The still long and complex administrative procedures, which are not cheap, are undoubtedly the main reason why Slovenia is lagging behind in this area. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Work Programme and the Agency's financial plan for next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning, colleagues, colleagues, everyone else present! Position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Programme of Work and to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2017. With the transposition of the last package of the EU Directive, the Energy Agency has received many new powers and related additional tasks. Recent amendments to the Energy Act have identified the Agency as an independent regulatory body as a regulatory energy agency no longer defined as a public agency and where the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia exercises its constitutional rights. The Council of the Energy Agency must therefore, in accordance with Article 399(4) of the Energy Act, up to 30. 9. adopt the Agency's work programme and financial plan for next year. However, the Agency's work programme and financial plan must be agreed upon by the National Assembly. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the Agency’s work programme and financial plan for 2017 are set up ambitiously and that the Agency is carefully planning financial resources for the performance of its tasks. This is particularly encouraging because of the new commitments already mentioned, which the Agency has successfully implemented in practice. With regard to these new tasks, the Agency had to adapt its business, which is certainly a kind of challenge, even if we know that the Agency is closely involved in the national environment, which brings together the field of energy regulators at EU level. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we were also informed of the annual report of the Energy Agency, where Mrs Duška Godina, the Director, said that the Agency had achieved all the objectives set by the Programme and the Financial Plan for Work in 2015. We would also like the targets set to be achieved in 2017, of course at the same time as ensuring cost-effectiveness. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we agree on the proposed Work Programme and the Agency's 2017 Financial Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u14	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting the energy law, we have pointed out the uniqueness and inadequacy that the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy are confirmed by Members. Because it is a purely economic activity of society at national level, and this task should be performed by the Government, not by Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have a positive assessment of the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy, following all the guidelines and tasks imposed by the energy law. As a national energy regulator, the Agency introduces updated regulatory methodologies through the introduction of smart grids. The Agency will also continue to monitor all energy operators. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the work programme and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2017, we will decide on Tuesday, 22 in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a decision on the suspension of the validity of the decision on the consent to divest the Republic of Slovenia’s investments, the capitalist companies of late- and invalidity insurance, D.D., Slovenia’s compensation companies, D.D., Blue insurance companies, D.D., D.D., D.D., D. O. O., and special companies for business counciling, D.D., (Official Gazette No. 52/2013) The proposal for a decision was submitted by the MEP to the assembly for consideration. Alenka Bratusek. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a decision is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mrs Maruša Škopac's committee to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u16	Pursuant to Articles 42, 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent worker, has prepared the following report to the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the decision on the consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, d.d., the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., Blue Insurance, d.d., DSU, the Consulting and Management Company, d.d. [[..]] The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 29th session. Ten. 2016 considered the proposal for a decision on the termination of the decision on the consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Company of Pension and Disabled Insurance, d. d., the Slovenian Compensation Company, d. d., the Modre Insurance Offices, d.d., DSU, the consultancy and management company, d.o.o., and the Special Companies for Business Consulting, d.d. submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by Mr Alenka Bratušek. In addition to the proposal for a decision, the Committee received the following material: Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 12. Ten. 2016 and Opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 20. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. The committee was attended by the proposers, representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. The introductory supplementary explanation to the proposal for a decision was submitted by the member of the committee mag. Alenka Bratusek. At the same time, it pointed out that the so-called consent decision was already covered by the strategy and should therefore be discussed in full, i.e. the management of capital investments and all 46 companies included in the strategy. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the content of the decision on consent was already covered by the strategy adopted and that the list of 15 undertakings covered by this Decision on consent was substantively exhausted without expiring and therefore the decision on its formal termination could not have a legal effect. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance introduced the Government's opinion and the reasons why the Government considers that the decision submitted is not appropriate for further consideration. In addition, it mentioned the fact that all 15 companies are included in the strategy, where they are defined as portfolio investments and their sales procedures continue on the basis of the strategy. The debate drew attention to the need for companies to be classified according to precise criteria and criteria, as some considered that all companies defined as portfolios were not, but should be defined as strategic enterprises because of their importance. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted the following decision after the discussion and in view of the opinion of the Government and the Legislative and Legal Service, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: Proposal for a Decision on the expiry of the Decision on the Consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Society, the Pension and Disabled Insurance Company, d. d.d., the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d., the Blue Insurance Company, d.d., DSU, the Consulting and Management Society, d.o.o., and the Special Companies for Enterprise Consulting, d.d., is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u17	I give my word to the magician. Alenki Bratušek for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u18	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! What was the reason why we prepared this proposal in the Alliance and I tabled it myself? There was only one reason, and this is that this government and this coalition have repeatedly used the argument, "the cellar has been adopted, so we need to work on," several times, in the National Assembly, in public, anywhere. The only purpose of this proposal was to start this government and this coalition on the basis of its decisions, not on the basis of decisions made by past governments. I am pleased, sincerely glad, that, in fact, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the opinion of the Government, was based, and it seems that the coalition in the State Property Management Strategy has also identified up to these 15 companies. And that's a fact. So I hope that you will stop operating on the 15 companies decision, because it is simply gone because everything about the management of state property is regulated in the strategy. The management of state property has been weak in the last two years, as never before. The Slovenian state holding company, which is a covering, fundamental, most important organisation, an economic society, in fact, when we talk about the management of state property, does not have a complete administration, does not have a complete supervisory board. But the sales procedures are moving forward, just as you set them up with the strategy. By the way, Mr Marko Jazbec, who had to step down because of the affair of Luka Koper, has a job in the Slovenian State Holding, as an assistant to the Capital Investment Management Director. I don't know if he could have wanted anything better. He's still doing what he's been doing. He's still in the middle of a state-owned mess. He's just a little bit more hidden in the background. As I have already said, the only objective and purpose of the proposal before you today was to start managing state assets on the basis of its decisions – SMC, Desus and SD. You've been in government for two years, and you're still looking for reasons why something is not as it should be in the past. I am pleased that we have all come to the conclusion that this famous decision on 15 companies is no longer that there is only a list of 46 companies currently for sale. This list was confirmed by the SMC, Desus and SD coalition, and this is the only relevant document on which they are currently being sold. However, I think it will be necessary to do so in the future, not very far, but very soon, to discuss how these procedures are being carried out. The Paloma affair, Adria Airways was supposed to be just before bankruptcy, New Maribor Credit Bank you sold before you were able to collect profits into the state budget. I could even list things like that. Finally, unfortunately, the Committee's decision was not supported, but in the strategy you did not classify companies according to the criteria and criteria. Even though we often listen to how good this strategy is, for the first time in the history of the country, it is a fact that the criteria and criteria are not respected for all businesses. And it would be wise to identify all companies involved in the sales strategy when changing the public property management strategy to identify them as intended for sale, in accordance with the criteria and criteria. As it is said, unfortunately this proposal has not been supported, the coalition has rejected it, but we have not given up and we will continue with these proposals in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u19	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Miranda Groff Ferjančič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u20	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government supports the position of the parent worker that the proposal for a decision on the expiry of the 2013 Decision on the sale of State capital investments in 15 companies is not suitable for further consideration. The decision was adopted during the financial crisis, on the basis of the transitional provision of the Slovenian State Holding Act 2012, as the country's capital investment management strategy had not yet been adopted. It was adopted by the National Assembly in July 2015. In view of the fact that the will of the Republic of Slovenia on the sale of investments by the domestic and international communities has already been given in 2013 and that specific sales procedures have been made during the preparation of the strategy in progress, the strategy sets out that all investments under the decision to sell 15 investments are portfolio. On the basis of these facts, the Government notes that all the State’s capital investments under the 2013 decision of the National Assembly are in line with the adopted portfolio strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and therefore the proposal to terminate this Decision is also not suitable for further consideration, since this decision is already consumed in the strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u21	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President, again for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 2013, the National Assembly adopted a decision agreeing to the alienation of 15 capital investments owned by the State. This is what Slovenia has committed to privatising 15 companies. In this context, it is not relevant to adopt this Decision. Reverse. This was a critical period when we were under scrutiny by all European and global public when the first data on the depth of the bank hole and, consequently, the need for recapitalisation were extremely high. When everyone wondered about Slovenia's payment capacity and the possibility of maintaining it in the long term in such situations, full of tension, nervousness and uncertainty, the Government, led by the proposer of this decision, proposed the adoption of the so-called privatisation decision of 15 companies. At that time, it was a common or majority assessment that there were no other options or that other options would be significantly worse than we pointed out at the time of the decision. Without its adoption, it was suggested that the social state would be at risk. Since the adoption of the decision, the Slovenian State Holding, together with other owners, has started activities by sale. In some such cases, such as the Laško Pivovarna and the Ljubljana Airport, the procedure was closed. Especially resilient and in the opinion of a large part of the general public were the cases of sales of New KBM and Adrie Airways. We were very close to the same scenario in the case of trying to sell Telekom Slovenije. Indeed, this period has exposed several weaknesses in the current system of governance of state assets. The adoption of the country's capital investment management strategy in 2015 then classified all state capital investments and classified those not sold from that list as portfolio investments. For them, we must stress here that these are not necessarily investments intended for sale, they are state investments in which the country does not pursue public, but rather its own economic interest or profit. However, this does not mean that they must be disposed of at all costs, as we have received this feeling mainly in the sale of Adrie Airways or in the unfortunately completed sale of Adrie Airways Technology, where we believe that there was a great opportunity for a successful labour buyout, but the Slovenian State Holding could unfortunately not see it. This must change in the future. This is also why the Social Democrats keep reminding us of the importance of transparent management of the country's capital investments, the fact that privatisation can also mean selling the company to workers who have created it. That is why we have drawn up a labour buy-in law and ask the Government to prepare it as soon as possible for the parliamentary procedure. We are also preparing a proposal for amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act towards greater personal responsibility, economic democracy and more transparency and public supervision in the functioning of SDH. It is our common assets and the management strategy to determine what should happen to it. It is up to us to ask the manager to do so. In its consideration of the decision, it appeared that any decision taken by the National Assembly on this agreement would have no legal effect. Simply put, even if the National Assembly supported the proposed repeal of the decision, it would be no different. The Legislative and Legal Service has also made it clear that this decision has already been consummated, partially executed or privatised, and yet unsold companies are included in the country's capital investment management strategy. Its further changes and additions are important and must happen, not by seeking faults and avoiding responsibility. Social Democrats, however, are not able to give support to the proposal to reverse decisions that do not change anything in the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Members of the United Left have proposed repealing the decision on the privatisation of 15 companies already at the beginning of the mandate, which is 25 September 2014. At that time we proposed to stop the privatisation of Telekom Slovenije, Cinkarna Celje, NKBM and other companies. The decision of the National Assembly adopted by the Members of Positive Slovenia, Desus and the Social Democrats was the legal basis for their sale. At the beginning of this term, today's proposer, Alenka Bratušek, did not attend the meetings of the parent committee and was then replaced by a colleague of Möderndorfer, who was also the loudest of those who rejected our proposal. If I understand correctly, the purpose of the proposal was not to stop privatisation, but to wash the deadlines. In response to the proposed decision, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government stated that this decision had already been consumed in the management strategy. To simplify, this would mean that the applicant, Alenka Bratušek, has nothing to do with the continuation of the privatisation of these companies. Of course, we are pleased that at least one of those who are has changed their minds, and this must be acknowledged and honestly said, under severe pressure of circumstances, and the European Union has taken a decision on privatisation, but they will not be able to get rid of their responsibilities so easily. There are two reasons. At the time of the previous government, both Helios and Ljubljana Airport were sold. The case of Helios is likely all to be remembered for the mass forgiveness carried out by the old administration. For the prize, the former member of the Klavjar administration became director after the takeover. The manager of the Ljubljana airport sold Runjak and Pirc to the German Fraport, which, although promising, did not invest a cent in infrastructure development. At the same time, we have lost 17 million Euros of non-refundable European funding for the second terminal, so it is no wonder that traffic at the airport has fallen heavily over the past six months. The second reason why this move is irrelevant to the applicant is as follows. It is true that this decision is no longer a direct legal basis for privatisation. The direct basis is the management strategy of the current coalition, which has extended this list to 46 companies that will be sold in full. Others, such as Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper, will obviously be privatised at least partially. However, the proposer forgot something. Telekom Slovenije and Zincarna Celje are set in the government strategy for full privatisation precisely because the former government designated it for privatisation. Because that list of 15 companies was an excuse for the current coalition. If the current coalition were to use the criteria of its own strategy, Telekom and Cinkar should be regarded as a strategic and important company. In this case, it should maintain at least a majority or control share. Privatisation would de facto fall away because the takers are not interested in a minority share. Of course, neither does the Government's position that the annulment of this decision would be irrelevant. On the contrary. If the decision had been repealed, they would have eliminated the basis for which these companies were defined as portfolios and sold in full. That is why we voted against inappropriateness on the committee, and that is how we will vote today. For the same reason, in our amendment to the SDH Act, we have requested that companies in this Decision be classified in accordance with the criteria and management strategy. However we reverse it, privatisation is harmful and must be stopped. The annulment of the decision of June 2013 would have saved at least two state-owned companies. These are Telekom and Zinc Celje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u25	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I welcome everything on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. When considering the proposed decision on the working body, it was somewhat complicated on the question of what the legal consequences of the proposed decision could be. In view of the fact that the decision we propose is overturned. It is no longer the case, it is somewhat unusual that we should vote on it at all. However, the Legislative and Legal Service has stated that, by defining in the strategy that investments are freely available to SDH and that sales procedures continue on the basis of the strategy, the content of the Coherence Decision is summarised in the strategy. In view of the above, the decision on consent is exhausted without formally expiring and has lost its direct relevance. The proposed decision on the formal termination of its validity could therefore, in the view of the Legal and Legislative Service, not have a legal effect. Nevertheless, let me take this opportunity, colleagues and colleagues, to take advantage of the Government's criticism of its role in the implementation of privatisation procedures. The opposition's view on the government's activities seems to have agreed that the privatisation of key companies will not take place during its term of office. At this point, I would like to open the question of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. Why? I would like to draw attention to a document with the number SA33229 and the date of 18 December 2013. This is a document by the European Commission, number and dates to be found on the European Commission's website, and with this document, the European Commission approves state aid in 2013 to the Republic of Slovenia to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank of EUR 1.55 billion. With the same document that it has adopted and is binding on this government, the government has also committed itself to fulfilling the entire set of commitments, the whole catalogue of commitments, commitments. And one of these is the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank by 31. 12. 2017. We in New Slovenia wonder what the European Commission will do, what will happen, what will be the scenario if the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is not possible. Will State aid, then approved, be reclassified as unauthorized? Will the New Ljubljana Bank go bankrupt? What's gonna happen? It's 1.55 billion euros. I am actually putting these concerns here before all of us, including the citizens and citizens, because Mr Miro Cerar has announced that they are not favourable times for the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank and that this privatisation should be suspended. Probably after that term. But then 31.12.2017 will be over. So we want to hunt some by-passes again and not respect the agreements we've made. Therefore, state-owned companies will continue to be able to represent ATMs for some, private owners of something like this would never, of course, allow. I would also like to draw attention here to the urgency of changing the capital investment management strategy. This strategy, as it is today, has quite a few mistakes, and has some provisions that are not in line with the European acquis. Here I am thinking mainly of the free movement of capital. In Novi Slovenija we express our disappointment that the government of Mira Cerar in the management of state property has not made a major breakthrough from the policy of national interest from some past periods. Despite the promises made by Prime Minister Mir Cerar on higher ethical standards, decisions are taken in the management of state property at the time of this government, which do not constitute an appropriate basis for creating an open economy and thus a fair private economic initiative. Slovenia remains one of the countries with the highest level of state ownership in Europe, according to OECD data. As I have already said this week, the country should withdraw from the economy and unfortunately the economy is withdrawing from the country. It is necessary to end this and finally normalise the Slovenian business environment by opening up the economy. In Novi Slovenija, we will not support the proposal for a decision on the expiry of the decision on consent to alienate investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u27	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u28	We will also support in our parliamentary group the conclusion that the Alliance's proposal, which I have tabled myself, is in fact unnecessary. However, as I have already said, we must all ask ourselves together what is going on with state property. The fact is, as a colleague from the United Left said, that in the company strategy, companies are not classified according to the criteria and criteria, although it would in some way be the duty of the Government and the coalition to draw up the whole strategy in a manner consistent with the law. As I have already said, we will continue to propose and not stop at this, but you will reject to the end that things should be done as the law says. The management of state property is not good. You're mismanagement of state property. That's a fact. That's what the data shows. Slovenian state holding is an institution where management changes faster than anywhere else. This also suggests some interest in this coalition. It's hard to reconcile, but when people get there, everyone's pulling on their side, which is obviously wrong. I am still convinced that the Slovenian State Holding Institute, which was established for good purpose, is that the management of state property is united in one place. We did it. The question is, not the question, what is the fact that property is not managed well? The legislative and legal service has written an opinion on two sides, but the key sentence is that the content of the decision, the decision on these fifteen companies, is summarised in the strategy. The fact is that the conclusion of 15 companies is no longer, the fact is that all that is happening at this point in time with the sale of property or the sale of state property, if you want, is happening on the basis of your own strategy: the SMC, Desus and SD strategies. Once again, we will also support the proposal in our parliamentary group that the continuation of the procedure is unnecessary. However, I call on you to really start to realize that this is an important area, that businesses must be managed in a way that is yours, in fact. If we acted like that, it would be very different in my opinion. And another call. In changing the strategy you are preparing, this strategy should include everything that is required and regulated by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u30	Honorable Presidents, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues, colleagues! Ambassador Alenka Bratušek proposed to the National Assembly that the decision on the sale of 15 companies adopted by her Government should be repealed. In the Group of Members, we feel that it is not appropriate to decide on such a proposal because the National Assembly has already decided under its Government to sell businesses. On the Committee on Finance on 14 June 2013, when the decision was considered, the then Minister of Finance, Dr Uroš Cuffer, said that “it is very important that this list is final, so that it does not mean that it should come back to Parliament and be decided again, especially for two reasons. For the first time because of the very low credibility of Slovenia, which has already initiated procedures many times, and because it is a costly process for investors of due diligence. If the investor knows that in the end someone else can draw manually, it means that fewer investors will prefer to set a slightly lower price, and this is something that actually severely limits the proceeds that we can expect. And secondly, it is important why I do not think we should come back to Parliament, that a review of one such contract, which may be a relatively complex necessary professional assessment for which it is necessary to have expertise." End of quote. Therefore, we believe that the proposal that we have before us today does not benefit Slovenia or attract foreign investment and create new jobs. It is necessary to separate policy from government management. The legislative basis for the operation of SDH in this form was adopted by the Government of the applicant for this act. Thus, in the previous mandate, a decision was taken on the basis of the provisions of the SDH Act, which states that, before the implementation of the SDH or SD strategy, the consent of the National Assembly is required, on a proposal from the Government, to make available capital investments of the State, capital investments of the CAD and investments of the ZPIZ in the Insurance Company of Triglav, d.d., if the total accounting fidelity of the investment available exceeds EUR 20 million or the share of investments managed by SDH is at least 25 % of the total capital of the company or if the SDH manages rights representing at least a 25 % share of all voting rights. It should also be recalled that our government is the first government in this House to adopt a strategy for the management of state property. Therefore, in the Group we support the conclusion that the proposal for a decision on the expiry of the Decision on the consent to alienate the investments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Capital Company of Pension and Disabled Insurance, d. d., Slovenian Compensation Companies, Blue Insurance, DSU, management and consultancy companies, d.o.o. o. and Special Companies for Enterprise Advice, d.d., are not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u31	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Initially, the Slovenian Democratic Party was one of the few companies which did not support this decision on the sale of 15 companies. We did not support this because we are against privatisation, but because we pointed out at the time that this decision on the sale of 15 companies was created without criteria, without clear objectives and without objectives to which these companies would be sold. It surprises us in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that such dust is being raised, but that such dust is being raised mainly by the two parliamentary groups – the Social Democrats and Desus, who supported this decision. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that privatisation is necessary, but privatisation in the way it is now taking place in the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus, is dangerous. It is dangerous both for the budget, for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for all employees in the privatisation companies. The facts that say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we also opposed the proposal for a strategy are clear. We do not understand the Modern Centre Party, which is now very much boasting how the strategy was adopted under this coalition for the first time in the history of Slovenia. Last but not least, the professional public and the management of the Slovenian state holding company note that this strategy is poorly written and flawed. Just what we have also warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party when adopting this strategy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the coalition, the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats to ensure that the assets of the Republic of Slovenia are not owned by this coalition. It is owned by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is your responsibility to manage this property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there has not been such poor governance of state property as under this coalition in the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, this is what the figures are talking about, and also that the Slovenian State Holding has only temporary leadership. We call on the Government, the Ministry of Finance as a coalition, to ensure that leadership is complete and constant as soon as possible, and above all, that there is enough human resources, start managing state assets. Bring a new strategy to the National Assembly as soon as possible, as this has been said in the lead and in the management bodies of the Slovenian State Holding. However, in the same list and decision 15 sales, the Slovenian Democratic Party could say that the sale of the Aerodrome was a success. He was successful because there was a buyer, a buyer from the industry, a strategic partner, and, last but not least, we are convinced that the price was also right. But everything else is worrying. We are convinced that this decision, which was voted on at the time, given that the strategy has been adopted, is no longer valid. We agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Above all, the strategy was adopted by the Modern Centre Party, Desus and the Social Democrats. For what you have accepted, you must be responsible now and it is sad that this coalition has different views on privatisation itself and it is harmful for businesses and for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u33	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the members of the government! Dear Members and Members! We have before us a proposal for a decision which was rejected by the representatives of the Desus Group at the meeting of the home working body. In July 2015, the National Assembly adopted a Decree on the State Capital Investment Management Strategy. Its fifth chapter explicitly states in the second paragraph that the capital investments referred to in the decision on the agreement of the portfolio investment and that the sales procedures of these companies continue on the basis of this strategy. By defining in the strategy that these are port investments, investments that SDH can freely dispose of and that sales procedures continue on the basis of the strategy, the content of the consent decision is therefore summarised in the strategy. In the opinion of the Government and in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Decision on Consent is both of the opinion of the Government in the light of that substantive exhaustion, without formally expiring, and thus has lost its direct meaning. The proposed decision on the formal termination of its validity cannot therefore have a legal effect. We can therefore conclude that the proposal to terminate this Decision as such is unnecessary. In legal theory, the principle is that the rules are, as a rule, until they are expressly repealed by a new regulation or by a decision of the Constitutional Court. However, there are also exceptions, such as rules for certain purposes, which cease to apply when this purpose is consumed, although the regulation is not expressly repealed. However, it should be noted that when opening the strategy or adopting a new strategy, it will be an opportunity to reconsider the definition of the remaining companies in the famous list of fifteen. However, since we agree with the already mentioned opinion of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service in the Desus Group, we rejected the proposal for a decision on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Tuesday, 22th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 11. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 37. On the other hand, this is a proposal to present an advisory referendum on the entire economic and trade agreement between Canada on one side and the European Union and its member states on the other side (CET). A group of six Members and Members, signed by Dr Mate T. Vatov, submitted a proposal for an advisory referendum to be considered by the National Assembly. I give the text to the representative of the proposer, Dr Mate T. Vatovec, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! As it is said in the United Left, we are proposing a call for an advisory referendum on the CETA Trade and Investment Agreement, because it is an important agreement which, in particular, with unpredictable and negative consequences for people and the environment, poses one of the most important issues for the long-term future of the people of Slovenia. And not just those generations, but the future. For this reason, the opportunity to speak of CETI must be given first and foremost to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution clearly states that in Slovenia the authority of the people and the referendum clearly represents one of the forms of direct cooperation in the management of public, i.e. joint matters. Regrettably, the right to a referendum with constitutional changes has been severely limited, but there is still room for people to speak about issues of wider importance. The consultation referendum that we are proposing is, of course, not a classic referendum required by citizens and citizens directly, but an instrument of authority that the only one can request and sign up to verify the will of the people. By allowing people to express their will and thus spread democratic principles, which we probably all agree and swear to. CETA is the first example of the so-called new generation agreements, since it not only removes trade barriers, but removes a wide range of rules and even transforms the way these regulations are created, which are sovereignly imposed by countries or have so far. A study of the Centre for Business Excellence at the Faculty of Economics on economic impacts was carried out on CETI. The results of this study, which is based, need to be stressed, on optimistic assumptions, are so eloquent that they simply need to be mentioned again. The simulated overall impact on GDP growth will be one hundred percent over the 10-year period. More simply speaking, there will be no positive economic effects at all. There is no need to overemphasize how the CETA agreement will affect each individual. We will all receive poorer, less quality food on shelves that bring risks, that is, risks that have not yet been explored. Local food growers will be worse off. According to certain surveys, the European economy can expect up to 600,000 jobs to be lost. The provisions of the agreement will be used to push for further elimination of labour rights and to undermine environmental standards. Some social services will be liberalised and privatised, which means that even fewer people will have access to public health and public education. As a result, these services will become less and less quality and increasingly important will be the private provision of these services, which will become clear and payable. Before the last elections, the parties did not focus on the issues of secret trade investment agreements. As a result, neither they nor their representatives have a mandate to unilaterally decide on this issue. Despite poor information, the public's interest in the agreement is quite high. In order to meet the principles of the democratic order of the Republic of Slovenia, there is only one way: that the people express their will directly in the referendum on the issue of such broad significance. The consultation referendum, which we propose, will offer an opportunity for wider information and public debate on the content of the agreement, and in particular on its implications. We will thus get a clear decision from the people who are the first to bear the consequences of such an agreement. At the same time, a consultative referendum is also an opportunity for a democracy and transparency correction exam in the national parliaments in view of the negotiations so far. If it means uncritical acceptance of the CETA agreement by its suspension of democracy, the only thing we have left to revive democracy is the call for this referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u37	The proposal for a mediation referendum was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Joseph Horvat to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 62nd meeting, on 2 November 2016, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a consultative referendum on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. While a proposal for a consultative referendum on trade investment agreements between CETA and TTIP was submitted to the Committee for its consideration by the Joint Left Group, which amended the referendum question on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Mr Vatovec said that the proposal was particularly meaningful in view of the fact that citizens were defined on this issue, since none of the parties in the current composition of the National Assembly had clearly expressed support or reservations about the signing of the CETA Agreement in 2014. He went on to say that there had been a lot of discussions at the level of the labour force in the National Assembly on the CETA Agreement, but that the proposal remained a lot of open questions about the acquisitions and shortcomings of the CETA Agreement. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology Eva Stravs Podlogar said that he was 30. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is anticipated that 17 will be notified to the European Parliament. 2. 2017 and it is expected to take effect later, followed by ratifications in the national parliaments of the Member States of the European Union. In the debate of the opposition Members of the Group, the United Left and the Group of Non-Aligned Members expressed the view that, despite many discussions and the IGRT study on the effects of the CETA agreement, the public was still under-informed about all the consequences of the agreement and therefore considered that the consultative referendum was also necessary to clarify the comprehensive document. Members of the SMC coalition group stressed that the outcome of the consultation referendum was not binding. As an extremely positive assessment of the requirements of the Republic of Slovenia at the informal meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council, CETA is a mixed agreement that recognizes the role of national parliaments through the ratification of the agreement and that the ICS mechanism will be exempted from temporary use. The role of the Republic of Slovenia in co-forming the text of the common interpretative declaration and the reasoned insistence on the inclusion and protection of water resources, safety food standards and the role of national courts in resolving disputes with the ICS was also highlighted. The opposition Member of New Slovenia supported the signing of the CETA Agreement and drew attention to the efforts and final success of the national parliaments that CETA is a mixed agreement that will be ratified in the national parliaments of the Member States. The head of the International Law Sector at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also took part in the debate, which, with regard to the proposals of opposition Members, said that the Committee would be obliged by a decision to undertake a referendum discussion under Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that the call for a referendum should take into account that Article, which also lays down the conditions for its invitation to tender. He pointed out that only in the ratification process and after a decision by the courts of the European Union, it would be possible to say to what extent the transfer of sovereign rights was concerned, thereby clarifying the issue of the majority necessary for the adoption of the law on ratification. He also said that the ratification of trade agreements so far had been adopted by a simple majority. At the end of the discussion, the Committee voted, pursuant to Article 184(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the following proposal for an opinion: The Committee on Foreign Policy considers that the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part (CETA), is appropriate. The Committee did not adopt its opinion. The proposed opinion was voted in favour of 1 member of the Committee and against 11 members of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u39	In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u40	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me first to present the latest situation concerning the CETA agreement in order to better understand the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for an advisory referendum on CETA. On 28 October 2016, the Council of the European Union approved the signing decision and the decision on the provisional application of CETA and agreed to send CETA formally to the European Parliament. CETA was signed on 30 October 2016 at the EU-Canada Summit. CETA's treatment in the European Parliament is expected to be completed in the second half of December or January 2017 and by 17 February 2017 at the latest. The agreement will start to apply temporarily once the EU and Canada meet the formal conditions expected at the beginning of the following year. Once again, I would like to point out that, at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we have estimated that we have achieved a great deal and have been active in the negotiations until the end, together with the other departments. CETA is a mixed agreement. Decisions on signature and provisional application were adopted provisionally and unanimously. National parliaments will participate in ratification. The whole agreement will not be implemented temporarily, but only in accordance with the Interim Use Decision that is within the competence of the EU. The ICS’s bilateral investment court is exempted from provisional application, which means that it will not be used unless it is ratified by the National Assembly. The ICS reform is foreseen, which is expected to be completed before the system starts to apply. Reference has been added to national courts and the commitment made by the EU and Canada to monitor the implementation of investment provisions and propose changes to the system. The legally binding nature of the EU-Canada common interpretative instrument concerning the interpretation of an agreement under the Vienna Convention on International Contract Law has been confirmed. This instrument will also be published in the Official Journal of the EU and Canada. The European Commission's statement or common interpretative instrument also takes into account other interests of the Republic of Slovenia, genetically modified organisms, safe food and precautionary principle and water. In the event that the German Constitutional Court decides that CETA is contrary to the Constitution or that any other Member State does not ratify CETA, this means that the ratification procedure is initiated and the ratification is rejected and that it is notified to the Council of the European Union, the procedure for cancelling the provisional application of CETA applicable to all States Parties shall be initiated. The European Union and Member States will still be able to identify and provide public services, including services of general economic interest, including public health, education, social services, water collection, cleaning and distribution. CETA does not deprive Member States of this right. The most important benefits of the agreement are: the agreement eliminates customs duties for more than 99 tariff items, sensitive agricultural products only under poultry and egg quotas will not be subject to liberalisation. It will reduce the costs of testing products and obtaining product certificates for exporters. Canada will adapt technical vehicle regulations to United Nations regulations, reducing costs for exporters. The agreement will facilitate membership procedures and will also open up a public procurement market in Canada and its provinces. Activities related to the implementation of CETA are actually just beginning in practice. Slovenia will also remain active all the time. We will analyse the implementation of the agreement and the effects on Slovenia and prepare businesses to act as effectively as possible on the basis of the agreement. The National Assembly will decide on its own whether or not to ratify the agreement. Following the publication of opinion 2/15 of the Court of Justice of the European Union, expected in the spring of 2017, the Government will examine, in accordance with the recommendations of the National Assembly, the proposal to assess CETA’s compliance with the EU acquis and, before the completion of the ratification procedure, take an appropriate decision. If the conformity assessment procedure is initiated by another Member State, Slovenia will join the procedure. Belgium has announced, as you know, the initiation of the procedure in a unilateral statement. Now, allow me to go a little bit to the specific material. Opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for an Advisory Referendum [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u41	Madam Secretary of State [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u42	On the one hand, the Government does not support the proposal for an advisory referendum between Canada and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand (CETA), because it believes that it is too early, as there are still too many open issues. Let me give you an explanation. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u43	Madam Secretary of State, please finish at this point and then you will say this part in the debate, no problem but we are limited.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u44	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u45	We understand. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of Members of the United Left, for which Mrs Violeta Tomić is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u46	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, welcome! Our starting point in the United Left is perfectly clear. CETI must be decided by the people. These are too important questions about our future to leave the decision-making process to Brussels's unelected bureaucrats or political elites in individual countries. However, something else is clear. If we took into account the interests of the people, if we took the protection of the environment seriously, if we actually addressed all the threats to the secret trade and investment agreement, if we were to defend the democratic principles and sovereignty of Slovenia, the CETA would be slightly rejected without a single concern. However, something else is clear. There is no need to repeat how crucial agreements are in the case of CETE as well as TTIP and TISE, which are slowly and quietly emerging from the public eye. Two years ago, when the elections were held for this time, the text of the agreement between Canada and the European Union was successfully hidden, and the public knew virtually nothing about the agreement. Therefore, the parties did not comment on their views on CETA or on the agreements of the new generation in general. In Slovenia, power has a people, it is still written in the constitution, and even though people are taking more and more decision-making options, it is still true. Article 3 of the Constitution is quite clear: in Slovenia, the people, citizens and citizens exercise it directly by elections. The referendum is therefore one of the key forms of direct public participation in the management of public affairs. It is unfortunate, however, that we can have a referendum on human rights in our country, but we cannot have a referendum on international agreements that threaten democracy, ecological standards, the social state and labour rights. And last but not least, the sovereignty of the state, as much as we have left. However, we still have the option of an advisory referendum. It is true that the results of such a referendum are not binding. It is required by the National Assembly to verify the will of the people, but surely such a decision has great symbolic weight and great political power. The consultation referendum is an important mechanism, a mechanism of direct democracy that allows citizens and citizens to get the word. CETA is a precedent for the so-called New Generation Agreements, which are in fact not free trade agreements, although this misunderstanding or deception is repeated all the time today, since in the first place it is not the removal of trade barriers, but the protection of investors. These are mainly multinational corporations. In addition, CETA eliminates a wide range of regulations and even changes the way these regulations are produced, which are to be made sovereignly by the countries themselves. This, however, means reducing the environmental, nutrition, labour social and consumer standards and the loss of the country's legislative and democratic sovereignty. Following the signing of CETE, Article 3 of the Constitution will be even more just a dead letter on paper. On Monday, Officer Delo published a public opinion survey showing two very important issues. Firstly, the people strongly oppose the adoption of a trade-investment agreement with Canada. Secondly, people are still not sufficiently informed about the content and consequences of the CETA agreement. These two facts are not excluded, but complemented. The CETA agreement was created completely untransparent, behind closed doors, so to speak, in secret. It's extremely extensive, it has a thousand 600 pages of annexes, so it's hard to get to know it in detail. The whole agreement is still not available in Slovenian, and the annexes that define which public services will be liberalised and in what way are not translated. However, according to the information known to the public, the opposition is fully understandable and also justified. It should be stressed that the Government has supported CETA despite opposition from local government, a large number of important civil society actors, including Umanotera, Greenpeace and the Union of Consumers as well as trade unions. 108 municipalities wrote to the President of the Government, Mir Cerar, to take the view that Slovenia rejects the CETA agreement. And these 108 municipalities represent 1.2 million people in Slovenia. That's not insignificant. As this process went on, the story is to itself, but unfortunately without a happy ending. It's a story of imprudentity, unpredictability, and ultimately high treason. The Government of Mir Cerar has overtaken the already adopted positions of the Republic of Slovenia and has agreed to sign an agreement containing an extremely controversial and harmful mechanism for the out-of-court resolution of investment disputes with an ICS shortcut. Although President Cerar himself claimed that the ICS was harmful and would not be in agreement. She voted in favour of an agreement that is very likely also contrary to European Union law. She voted in favour of an agreement that threatens our water resources, which we just wrote down in the constitution yesterday. If we put ourselves in the position of citizens and citizens, in the position of the people, the adoption of the CETA agreement seems to have brought the Brussels bureaucrat elites and the government of Mira Cerar around. Or if I say straight: CETA is a non-democratic strain, CETA is a betrayal of the people. Therefore, in the United Left we also understand the consultative referendum as a correctional exam. If we want to satisfy the principles of the democratic order of the Republic of Slovenia, the only way for people to express their will directly in the referendum is on the issue of such broad significance. The choice to vote on the proposal for a referendum on the CETA Agreement is very simple. Will you side with the people, or will you side with corporations and Brusselsian political and bureaucratic elites? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u47	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats oppose the proposal for a consultative referendum. In this respect, I also voted on the Foreign Policy Committee. And we had a real big referendum in this country on 23 March 2003, when about one million voters came to vote, and about 90% of them decided to join the European Union. In this context, we also adopted last July a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia, for which also a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, said that the greatest achievement of the National Assembly was in 2015. It is important that we have written in this declaration what people said in the referendum, namely that the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union is our basic political and value framework. In this context, the Member States, including Slovenia, decided in 2009 to give the European Commission a mandate to conclude a trade agreement as well as an investment agreement with the United States of America and Canada. So two agreements, the CETA agreement, the negotiations on the CETA agreement have long been concluded, and this agreement is now signed. I am pleased that, at the Conference of COSAC in Athens, during the Greek Presidency, and I have decided to sign a letter prepared by my colleagues from the Netherlands, this agreement has been signed by 16 countries, of course more signatories, and we have made a request to the then Trade Commissioner, which was also the Barros Commission, and in this request they have demanded that the CETA Agreement and also the TTIP be given the status of the Mixed Agreement, which means that they must be ratified in national parliaments. I'm glad the board listened to this. We will certainly do the most in-depth work on the CETA agreement when it is at the table on the proposal of the Government of the Act on the Ratification of the CETA Trade Agreement. However, if we are already talking about the referendums and, unfortunately, there are also many unrealities sown in the European and Slovenian audience around CETE and, if we are talking about the referendums, then we must decide with some consensus whether we will have a referendum that Slovenia will even support trade agreements. We have a lot of them, and the ICS, which is supposed to be a terrible thing right now, is long, long ago established. But on the one hand, we say that we care and, of course, we have to take care of young people in Europe and in Slovenia, for new jobs, and we all raise our hands here, and on the other hand we want to have some limited business, so we are not in favour of trade agreements. Or you need to tell me who we're with. If we're not with Canada, if we're not doing business with the United States, who are we with? Then we need to agree here and reach a national consensus. We are firmly convinced, and all the arguments speak of trade being a good thing. Even if we want a good perspective for young people, a good future. Because the future of the European Union is linked to the future of young people. If young people do not have a future, the European Union will not have a future either. Today we are, despite the fact that the European Union has great problems, but nevertheless we are, many times, the best association, the association of countries and nations in the world. If I look at the economic aspect, I see that 500 million people, that is 7% of humanity, create almost a quarter of the world's GDP. 7%, if I'm right, 24%. That's pretty good. Fears of multinational domination are, in our opinion, unfounded. Here we should note that we also have Slovenian multinationals. Will we expel them if we have fears of them? It is true that investors will only be able to sue countries under certain conditions. The point is that no auction should introduce measures to bring foreign investors into an unequal situation. These measures are very precisely mentioned. That's the way it has to be. Protectionism and monopolies are falling out. This is said to be true if we adopted in the National Assembly the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, where the rate would be 19% for foreign investors, for example 22%, the state would probably be in this arbitral tribunal. Large corporations will survive with or without CETA. We need to help small businesses in particular. These will have greater opportunities with CETA. And we're not just talking about companies, we're talking about individuals. For example, a diploma from the Slovenian Faculty will be automatically recognised in Canada. Is that a bad thing? There's a lot of talk about water. I am pleased and pleased in Novi Slovenija that the Slovenian government has succeeded in an interpretative statement with a dictatorship where drinking water is specially protected. But if we're talking about water, then all you have to do is take a look and maybe sit down with the 8th grade students who are learning about Canada and they'll tell you that Canada is a very watery country and has a lot of clean water and a lot of drinking water. There's no fear that the Canadians would take the drinking water to the Slovenians. If we are already cultivating any fears and poisoning the Slovenian audience, then please do not use water. A specific article of the agreement states that each party has the right to protect and preserve its water resources. Nothing in this Agreement binds either party to allow the use of water for commercial purposes. The threats that Canadian corporations will exploit our water are born on the wings of populism. The rules concerning the arbitral tribunal are also very precisely laid down. This isn't some village court some random people who are going to be influenced by big corporations for the benefit of these big corporations. This is a serious system which, as I have already said, is defined in many trade agreements and also works. The conditions for judges are clearly laid down. I also very much like the fact that all trials will be public, transparent. Anyone who can monitor their work will be able to monitor it. Let me finish. Ladies and gentlemen of honor! All security mechanisms are in place. CETA will not bring down European standards on the environment, on food, on safe food, and on the standards we have set ourselves. Nothing's gonna happen that we don't want to happen to us. Or maybe some kind of vein will be cheaper than we pay for it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u49	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u50	Nice greetings again, colleagues and colleagues! We also in our parliamentary group think that it is right for people to express their views. Yesterday we accepted a change of constitution, and we were endlessly proud that we could do this so that we could write water into the constitution. Many of you who do not support the CETA referendum yesterday stressed that we have heard people's will to respect what people want. At this point, I do not want to define myself to be appropriate or inappropriate in the trade agreement, but I want to make it clear that we are assessing that it is right to give people the opportunity to define themselves. And it would be a referendum time for those who believe that this trade agreement is good to tell them and convince them that CETA is something that will improve their lives in the future. We could have heard everything, from the fact that the referendum should have been earlier, until we wait until the end and there will be a real legislative referendum, binding, demonstrating people's will. Don't you think it'll be too late? You don't think it makes any more sense to go to the referendum now, to tell them clearly and loudly what the agreement says, to let them know that this is something that will have a positive impact on their lives, and not to wait until the end, when we're really going to get to the point and then let people say, no, we don't agree with that? At that time, Slovenia will be a completely non-creditable country. We still have time, we can still think about the point of asking Slovenians and Slovenians, and finally to convince them that CETA is a good thing that brings positive things to them, a positive change in the future. Until the vote, it is still time to change your mind. As I have already said, in our Group of Members, it is appropriate to give people the opportunity to decide on such important matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u51	The text is addressed to Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today's consideration of the proposal for a consultation referendum is another of the many discussions on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, better known as CETA. These discussions sparked in the period before the signing of the agreement between the European Union and Canada. Given that this is a comprehensive and extremely complex agreement, we see in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre any discussion that helps to better inform and understand the effects of the agreement as most welcome. We regret, however, that the debate on CETI has been, and remains, overshadowed by misinformation and the inciting of negative emotions, even the deceptions of people. All attempts at an argumented debate have faded into a vicious circle of negative public opinion driven by a part of the policy that the forward opposition to CETI and trade investment agreements in general has informally turned into its political agenda. Unfortunately, the latter is also a poor forecast for today's debate on the proposal to call for a consultative referendum on the CETA agreement. Again and again, we stress that we are not lawyers of this agreement or of any other free trade agreement in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Far from it. Before the text of CETA, which was finally drafted in 2014, we expressed a number of concerns before we occupied our seats in the National Assembly. Our concerns focused primarily on the role of national parliaments in the process of adopting the agreement, and we had substantive reservations about the investment part of the agreement with the ICS dispute settlement mechanism as its most controversial element. The language on our scale, not even the self-evident support of the signing of the agreement, were two. First of all, the CETA under the agreement under the exclusive competence of the European Union has been transformed into a mixed agreement. This means that all 28 Member States of the European Union must have agreed to the agreement and that the agreement will not apply until it has been ratified by the Parliament of all Member States of the European Union. If we make it so much easier, that means it won't happen without us sitting here. In order for the agreement to be valid in Canada and the European Union, it will also have to be confirmed by this national assembly. Once again, this national council. The key factor for our support was additional assurances regarding the importance of the individual provisions of the CETA Agreement, which were given by adopting an interpretative instrument, thanks to the Republic of Slovenia and a group of similar thinking countries. The Interpretative Instrument shall be a legally binding document setting out the interpretation of the most sensitive provisions of the Agreement. For us and our country, there were three key areas which, by reference to specific articles in CETI, have been addressed. First, it is protection of water or water resources. In view of Slovenia’s request, the text of the joint declaration included a specific chapter of Water which ensures that Canada, the European Union and its Member States do not need to be allowed to use water for commercial purposes. CETA shall maintain in full the right of the Parties to decide how they will use and protect their water resources. The provisions of CETA therefore fully comply with the right to water, a right of constitutional importance to us. We also proved this yesterday by adopting a supplement to the Slovenian Constitution. More. By including in the joint interpretative declaration, our emphasis on the right to water has also been transferred to the agenda of the European Union and Canada. The joint declaration also states that safe food standards will not be reduced and that all imported products will have to continue to meet the requirements of domestic legislation. The joint statement also ensures that investment disputes can also be resolved before national courts, while the ICS will be subject to root reform before it can be applied in practice. With the consent of the signing of the CETA referendum, which we could give on the basis of these assurances, we have not attached the votes of the ratification support to the Group of the Modern Centre Party. The adoption of this decision is still very far and most likely to go back to a time when opposition to the CETA agreement will no longer be just a fashion trend and air in the balloon of the popularity of individual political faces. The proposal for the ratification of CETA will necessarily fall under circumstances in which the known effects of the temporary application of the trade part of the agreement are to be assessed, the envisaged assessment of the compatibility of the CETA agreement with the EU core treaties, the proposals for reforms of the ICS mechanism and the analysis of the opportunities for the CETA agreement for the Slovenian economy on the basis of these real data. All these circumstances are crucial for the substantive quality decision to be taken by the National Assembly in the current or very likely new session, with regard to the implementation of the CETA Agreement in the Republic of Slovenia and thus in the European Union as a whole, as well as in Canada. While it is difficult to promise excessive depth from today's debate with regard to the discussions within the competent working bodies, it will be inevitable to reach the two-thirds majority of members of the National Assembly, which, in accordance with Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, will have to be ensured for the ratification of the CETA Agreement. The same Article also gives the National Assembly the opportunity to draw on the opinion of the electorate and electorate and to call a binding referendum on CETA. This much premature proposal to test public opinion on CETA for the implementation of the consultation referendum that we have today on the agenda and which would not have any added value, with the exception of unnecessary costs that would arise, will not be supported by the Group of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u53	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which she is the Master of Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u54	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Members and other Members! The representatives of the Desus Group favour the democratic process and the broadest involvement of the population in all matters of vital importance for the lives of people. The referendum is the highest expression of democracy, but it must be met with the conditions for people to decide on its contents at all, which is not yet provided for in the CETA Agreement. Therefore, we cannot support the consultation referendum yet. In preparing the CETA trade agreement, it has so far diminished the consistent transparency of the preparation of the agreement, as the preparation of the agreement took place in secret for a long time, and CETA is also a comprehensive and demanding agreement, which poses a problem for any decision on the referendum agreement. Given that a relatively expensive proposed consultative referendum would not be binding on Members who would decide on the ratification of the agreement if they had already carried out it, we are in favour of the implementation of the referendum in the Desus Group when the conditions for it are met. We therefore do not rule out the possibility of a consultative referendum on the ratification of the CETA agreement in the future, but we believe that the complexity of the issue under consideration poses a problem for the preparation of a comprehensive basis for possible decision-making at the referendum. Although the agreement is accessible online, many open cases remain. That is how we are still waiting for the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on Opinion 2/15. A potential assessment of the conformity of CETA or such agreements with the acquis of the European Union must be carried out. A number of countries seem to have a disputed mechanism to resolve disputes between investors and countries called ICS, with which foreign multinationals and investors would bypass the courts of individual countries. Before ratifying the agreement in the National Assembly, we also expect a study from our Government on the implementation of the effects of the CETA agreement on the Slovenian economy. Information should also be obtained on the impact on the environment, as well as on public services such as health, education and social services, as well as on agriculture, the labour and legal security of our citizens and so on. We are aware of the concerns that arise in the public and also in the professional circles, so we are looking for caution in adopting the CETA agreement with Canada, as it could represent a future model for reaching similar agreements between the European Union and other countries. In the DeSUS Group, we stand for the social state and, above all, for the protection of the most vulnerable groups. That's why we don't care what happens to the agreement. It would be unacceptable if people, by adopting this and perhaps in the future other similar agreements, were to take away any opportunity to hear their voice again. In the Desus Group, we therefore believe that the call for an advisory referendum would make sense, but when all the conditions for a high-quality debate and decision-making of the people attending the referendum are met. The referendum, although advisory, would allow for the inclusion of citizens and citizens in matters relating to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u55	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u56	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! Negotiations and adoptions and possible ratification of the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, the so-called CETA, have sparked a large part of the European public for several years. This is an agreement that removes most of the customs, commercial and administrative barriers that impede trade, investment and provision of services between the two large areas. This is not the first and not the only trade agreement concluded by the European Union, but it is strong in public for four reasons. The first is its time line with the negotiations on the second, for all of us a significantly less acceptable agreement between the European Union and the United States, that is the TTIP. Another is a fully justified growing skepticism towards globalisation, as many in the developed world do not benefit from it, but at the same time suffer negative consequences on their own. The third is the fact that all European Union citizens are significantly under-informed about the precise content of the agreement and the differences between temporary and permanent application. Fourthly and in our opinion, the most important reason is that the European Commission, which is leading the negotiations on the European side, has done little to communicate clearly and comprehensibly with the public the solutions and the intended consequences for people. This, in our view, is the main reason for the mistrust that we must all take seriously and learn from it. People demand transparency in making decisions that affect their lives. We hope that this debate will also make a contribution in this direction. With legitimate proposals like that on the table, we therefore urgently need to explain exactly what is being decided now or, rather, what was being decided exactly when the applicants submitted their request to the National Assembly. At the end of October, media attention was given to the expected European Union-Canada summit, at which the signing of the temporary application of the agreement should take place. What does that mean? This means that the agreement would, however, enter into force without any provision which is excluded by an explanatory statement. This means, above all, that there will be no specific courts until the agreements are ratified by all national parliaments. The Agreement shall enter into force on a provisional basis with all its additives which protect public interest, labour rights and environmental standards. Before touching the content of the agreement, it must be clarified that its content consists of two parts. The first is a comprehensive and professionally demanding document of a thousand 600 pages, which has been available to the public since 2014, but is unacceptable to many not only because of their exceptional complexity but also because of some solutions that are simply unacceptable. This is mainly about the introduction of special arbitration courts to resolve investment disputes between companies and countries. The second part was added later and is also part of the agreement. This is a so-called explanatory statement negotiated by the European Commission and the Canadian Government. However, two sets have been identified in particular. There are sectors in which countries cannot be asked to relax the market. These include education, health care, public and social services, safe food and, also due to the special efforts of the Slovenian Government, drinking water supply. All these industries are permanently protected by the agreement. The second is that there will be no arbitral tribunals at the time of provisional application. The national courts of the Member States will be responsible for all disputes. Why doesn't most people know it, understand it, and don't believe it? It is precisely for the reason mentioned above that communication by those who conducted negotiations at European level was lacking. It is clear, of course, that a certain degree of confidentiality is required in the negotiations, but when negotiations are nearing the end and the confirmation by the representatives of the people, cards and arguments must be placed on the table. Here, the European Commission has done very little. However, as long as the agreement is only in temporary application, there will be no special courts for businesses, and they are permanently protected for us important areas: education, health care, public services, safe food and drinking water. It should be pointed out that similar concerns as we do in other countries and regions also arise. Valonia's not the only exception. We are all concerned and currently show that many countries have no intention of ratifying CETA agreements in their parliaments. At the same time, there are obviously not many countries that would oppose the provisional application of the agreement. The main substantive reason: the special courts for corporations are excluded from it. If we decide what that means to us. This means maintaining our sovereignty and protecting our interests. It also means that it is still necessary to recognise all those who have tried to make the agreement more acceptable in terms of the protection of drinking water than the public goods we decided yesterday. Even in deciding on CETI, the main word will be the National Assembly and the people when it comes to it. While we believe that social democrats should not decide on a permanent form of agreement as long as there are supranational courts taking our sovereignty. We insist on this, as always, when it comes to labour rights, environmental standards, protection of public interest, education, health care and public services as public services, the right of people to be tried by their courts under their laws. However, a possible call for a referendum is more appropriate when and if it is on the agenda. Especially because there will obviously be further negotiations before that. At that time, the referendum could also constitute a legal commitment for decision makers. Until then, it means only promoting individuals, but it does not contribute to good decisions. Therefore, the Social Democrats will not support the invitation to an advisory referendum on the CETA Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum. Ms Eva Stravs Podlogar, State Secretary, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to further explain the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia why it does not support the proposal for an advisory referendum. CETA is signed, is mixed and is therefore subject to national ratification. It will have an impact on global trade flows, on the European Union, on EU Member States and certainly also on economic operators and individuals in Slovenia. The government supports an in-depth public debate involving professional aspects, but estimates that the multilayerity of the issue at this time poses a problem in preparing a comprehensive basis for possible decision-making at the referendum. The Agreement is fully accessible in Slovenian, including any declarations that have been agreed later, as well as an interpretative instrument. The concrete effects of the very implementation of the CETA agreement are still unknown. However, the government's commitment is that an analysis will be made on the implementation of the agreement and the effects both on Slovenia and on the Slovenian economy. The Court of Justice of the European Union has not yet delivered an opinion on the compatibility of CETA with EU treaties on a bilateral investment court. The German Constitutional Court has not yet ruled on the compatibility of CETA with the German Constitution. Opinion 2/15, which has already been highlighted today, will be adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Union on the scope of EU exclusive competence in the field of investment, intellectual property rights, transport, sustainable development and on the legal nature of the agreement with Singapore, which will also have a direct impact on CETA. We do not expect this position until March 2017. The initiation of provisional application is linked to the confirmation of CETA in the European Parliament, the confirmation in Canada, the exchange of notes and the determination of the date of provisional application. All these procedures are expected to be completed in the coming months. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Government has adopted a position that it does not support the proposed referendum invitation to tender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you, Chairman. As usual, I can and must respond to the course of the debate that has taken place so far. The first argument is that it is not possible to support this referendum at this time, because it is too early, because there is not enough information, because we will actually start to see what the effects are and what it means to implement this agreement, only when it enters into force temporarily and when the first effects start to appear. That's a pretty absurd argument. If we don't have enough information, if we don't really know what this agreement is for, why we've already signed it, and we're waiting for things to happen, and we're hoping for the best. While many studies, the one commissioned by the Government, the one commissioned by the European Commission and other institutions, including the European one, show virtually non-existent economic effects and certain negative consequences. Thus, from this point of view, the argument that time is too early for this referendum is completely pointless. But on the other hand, I would hope that it might even be too late. This referendum should probably have, before the Government immediately sent an opinion or position to sign this agreement, and in some way allow a clear signal to be given at that time. But, well, it is usually said that it is never too late, and we can at least allow people to say clearly, not only through public research, but also on a slightly more serious instrument, i.e. the referendum, their position and their opinion on this. It has also been said whether, now that we are proposing this consultative referendum, we must also open the question of whether the Republic of Slovenia is even in favour of trade agreements or international trade agreements. It was said that the ICS was already part of a number of agreements. Of course it doesn't. If so, some similar agreements contain an ISDS mechanism, but it is not that important. Government or government representatives insist and point out that this is the first in the so-called new generation of international trade agreements. Such an alignment of CETA with all the existing international trade agreements is complete fraud and nothing else. It is an agreement that brings new forms, which brings new circuits and, above all, raises a number of new issues that have not been raised in similar agreements so far. The talk was also about trade being a good thing and that it is something we must strive for. But here again and again, CETA is not just an agreement that promotes trade. It is an agreement that has a strong influence or influence on the management of a whole range of matters, not only trade, but also, in fact, the provision of services, today's public services, and a whole bunch of other things that are not so simple and we can't take them so easily. And perhaps as a very marginal remark. Trade may be a good thing, but sometimes it also shows very bad aspects, such as supporting so-called Sweatshops or in the case of Israel, where we are free in the European Union, despite certain commitments, buying, say, products from occupied territories and no one considers what is behind these products, i.e. inhuman exploitation and violence. Some combined response, or what more people relied on, is that the ICS is part of this agreement, but that it lays down certain clear and precise conditions that are sufficiently normal or comprehensible to be acceptable. The fact that ICS is in some way protected by having a clear condition that it can be used when a country places foreign investors in an unequal position is short for hair attracting. We have already had cases of such international arbitration in Egypt, for example, where the government raised the minimum wage and then Veolia, who invested in transport in Egypt, simply sued the country for this very reason. And these are the traps brought by CETA, and these are the traps to which we must be extremely careful. For this reason, once again, I stress that a major error, or the first major mistake, has already been made when our government even signed this agreement, because – we must not forget – the agreement contains this provision, contains ICS. Although I am still coming to a common interpretative statement, there is also a lack of sufficient safeguards to protect myself against such situations, as is the case with the formulation of a reservation to this mechanism. One of the points of discussion was water. Yesterday we wrote down the right to water into the constitution. Why? I think that this was also partly a response to such international agreements. This has also been highlighted by certain representatives of the expert commission who have been preparing the draft law, namely constitutional lawyers, who have explicitly said, of course, we must also enter water into the constitution because of the threat posed by agreements such as CETA and TTIP. Yesterday we did something, and on the other hand, we are going headlessly into some kind of trap that these agreements represent. There's one aspect to this. It was said that the agreement protects water, protects water resources, further explains the importance of the Republic of Slovenia's leadership and water resources as well as the unilateral interpretative declaration made by Slovenia. But CETE apologists and those who are not its lawyers, but who strongly support it, forget one nuance, and this is that the provisions of CETA as an investment or investment also define a concession granted for exploration or extraction of natural resources – and thus also water. And those concessions already granted in respect of water in the Republic of Slovenia can, at least, be interpreted as such an investment under the text of the CETA Agreement and thus open two possible routes. One is to continue the award of concessions, which will now be contrary to the Constitution, the other to restrict, terminate and clearly fall into that most black scenario, which is the appropriate basis for the action before the ICS. Yesterday we were doing something about the CETA agreement, and we are doing the opposite. As far as the negative opinion is concerned, which has been set up in the public over the last few months. Let me just stress, three and a half million citizens and citizens of the European Union have already signed a petition against such agreements. Before the signing took place, such a broad public debate, as some speak of, was initiated. It is not a matter of stimuli or disincentive in the public opinion of certain groups, but it is primarily a problem that has been identified by the first and first civil society. On the one hand, the environmental organisation, on the other hand, also consumer organisations, which have been identified mainly because of the extreme secrecy and intransparency of these negotiations and the adoption of this Agreement, have identified traps. And then we've seen this through the different approaches that these organisations have taken, including the so-called characters, these whistleblower disclosures of certain documents. This is not a matter of populism, as some say, or spreading fear, but actually, I would say that a single cry of citizens and citizens of Europe speaking in the first place to the European Commission, which is an extremely non-democratic institution that is not elected, is not representative, but follows what are the tactics of certain interests, especially capital and financial, which, of course, want only one, and that is profit. And here's the basic problem. I find it somewhat underestimating to say that this is about riding on a wave of misinformation, but here we must first listen to citizens and citizens of the entire European Union, not just Slovenia, and also give them a voice. As far as a common interpretative statement is concerned, it may have been legally binding, but that is not the point. The point is how this common interpretative statement is written. This interpretative statement is nothing more than a simple attempt to appease the public, a promotional newsletter, if I should call it that, someone even said that it has no greater value than a tourist flyer trying to appease the public trying to say, see, in fact, we all agree on both sides that there are certain aspects that are problematic and we will deal with them. But specifically with regard to the case of the arbitral tribunal or the ICS. It is clearly written inside that the investor can choose. It can choose between national courts, but it can also choose ICS. So an international tribunal for the settlement of disputes. The question I am asking, and it is completely rhetorical, I hope that his message will be clearly understood, is: which investor will go through the long-term procedures of national courts if he has the option of choosing an exclusive, luxurious court that works normally, as has been seen in recent times in most cases or almost all cases, for the benefit of investors? So this is not a legal commitment to restrict ICS. One of the aspects highlighted by some is that, at this point, I will conclude why a constitutional referendum, which is non-binding, is actually of no importance if, in the future, a constitutional referendum can be declared in the law on ratification of this agreement, if I so call it, in short, a referendum under Article 3a of the Constitution which allows the ratification of international agreements to be refused. I'm just wondering who guarantees that whoever is responsible for this will determine that agreement will be of such a nature. An agreement falling under Article 3a which speaks of the transfer by the Republic of Slovenia of part of its sovereignty to international institutions. An international institution is a key issue between the European Union and Canada. Here I would like to ask for an answer as to whether there is any assurance that, when the law on ratification comes, it will be possible to declare this law a law falling under Article 3a of the Constitution. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the invited and you, colleagues and colleagues! I think in today's debate, in particular, to limit myself to the question whether or not the previous referendum is yes or no. We have heard a lot about the content now, so I would not go into it, but just or yes or no this referendum at the moment it is proposed. We have heard that CETA is against this agreement. On the other hand, we were not told in the introductions that public opinion is also against previous legislative referendums. Why? Because they think it's too much of a cost and because it's not binding. On the other hand, why is it that the public considers that CETA is not acceptable not to accept this agreement? Because the public and every man believe in him who trusts him. Well, in this case, it's also because it's no wonder that he trusts civil spheres more than government spheres. Here, too, I am fully aware of what this preliminary legislative referendum would have brought if it had been carried out. All we know is what the consequences might be. At least we can predict. However, I am leaning towards this decision that the referendum is not now carried out on all the grounds that we have heard – that there are still many things that we do not know what will really happen in the final text, that it is now only temporary validity, that something can also change when it is initialled by the European Parliament, and that it will be in permanent force only when it is initialled by all the parliaments of the Member States. This can take a long time. Also in the next composition of the Slovenian Parliament, which has already been said. So we have plenty of time and opportunities to do this referendum, if we decide to do it later. Now I really don't know why we should be discussing when the European Parliament procedure is just about to take place, it is supposed to be there by the end of February, we have heard, and I don't know why we would now call a preliminary consultation referendum on this subject in Slovenia. It seems totally inappropriate or unhelpful to call for this right now. However, I agree with the fact that the referendums are the will of the people and that the people are also listening, but when it is time for the people to be able to have the mercies, what the content of this agreement really is. However, I still believe that people, as I have already said, will make decisions in the opinion of those who trust them, who believe them. That's it. Thanks for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Vice President. Indeed, the debate on the Committee has shown that we have before us a topic that is really very important for citizens and citizens, and not least for the whole country. But it is also so important that it is, as a person would say, a treat for political manipulation and in some way for your pianist performance to warn yourself. Today, in Europe and even Slovenia, we know this and I am sure that only the extreme left is the most concerned with this issue. This is such a delicious question when you really have so many strangers that you can't really answer them. But you can answer that, even though the proponent claims it isn't, with ordinary populism and fear. Let's go see what's really in front of us. In fact, the question before us, where we, in a way recently, also in the National Assembly, a few hours ago, can still be considered in hours, we have decided to change the constitution. We have changed the Constitution to protect water and water resources, one of the three key issues within the CETA agreement, to which the United Left also draws attention with a question and a demand to go to the Consultative Referendum. Interesting. On the one hand, she voted in favour of amending the Constitution, and on the other hand, she continues to repeat that a consultative referendum is really needed, because she does not believe in the constitution in fact, that water will be safe, even if it is written into the Constitution. That way I could explain it to myself because it's a kind of contradiction. We have also put water in the Constitution for reasons that whenever anyone in power in this country tries to ask what he could do with water and water resources to be further protected, and he will need at least what, at least a two-thirds majority, means some kind of obstacle to do otherwise here. In Slovenia we now have a million 633 thousand 952 voters. The round-the-clock referendum costs €4 million. In their presentation today, colleagues from the United Left presented themselves mainly with a question raised within Vox popouli, the number of those who really oppose the CETA trade agreement. They say it's 59.4%. However, they did not say that there was another question, which was on 16 October. This question is: The United Left Coalition has proposed a consultation referendum on both agreements, CETA and TTIP. Should such a referendum be signed by the National Assembly or not? 68.8% against them. What does that mean? That they are against the CETA agreement and against the referendum? For the most part, the practice has shown that people are against the always referendum when they have little knowledge of the content and do not want to make decisions, especially if they have representatives of the people who choose to do so instead. And that's the kind of democracy we have. However, the United Left says that this is a decline in democracy, transparency at zero, and that it is practically necessary to keep asking people whether they are responsible for such changes or decisions. I myself agree that it is right that we will ask them as soon as possible, in particular, although the United Left denies this when it comes to transferring a certain part of sovereignty to the European Union. I am talking about the judiciary if this so-called ICS happens and there will be no such changes. This is one of the other fundamental requirements that we have set out as a requirement in this interpretative instrument, mentioned by the proposer, who says that he is completely worthless, uses even evil and depravating expressions only to point out that it was actually some kind of promotion and comfort of the European people. I'm sorry, proponents, if you're making a fool of yourself, fine, but if you're making fun of us, please stop. This document is an integral part of an agreement that speaks more or less very clearly about what international agreements really are. And they're an integral part. In particular, where both parties agree on this arrangement, CETA shall be said in this case. I'll give you an example. Arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia. If I were to hold this theory of yours that someone could unilaterally make a deal and then no one would follow it, then this agreement, the arbitration agreement, would have fallen a long time ago. It's not. More. We have experienced a kind of practice when we saw how Croatia unilaterally wanted to get out of this arbitration agreement and, of course, the European tribunal does not recognise it, leads the process forward. Because international law is clear on these issues. And it is not true what the European Member said among other things, but there will always be dilemmas, and I agree with that. The group that will say, you know, this is an administrative issue, we do not have legal practice, of course we do not have legal practice, we have legal practice, and since in this case no one has yet decided, the question is if, in the event of a dispute, who would really take this interpretative instrument into account. This is a simple deception for me, this is one of these, I'll say, reasons why and how you're basically justifying your proposal to go to a consultation referendum. We have already discussed very clearly on the Committee, if a referendum is already in place, then binding. But I'll ask you something else. You can imagine that we are going to a binding referendum, and now that the strangers themselves are in a certain part, and finally, when we come to ratification, let's say that at the referendum they even say they agree to it, and we come to an important decision, which is ratification, and then we find that maybe this agreement is not the best for us. Are we gonna go to the referendum again and ask them again? I'm asking you nicely, this is a joke from people! Therefore, the stage and time when you step into the referendum for certain and individual questions is very clear. Right before the signature. And it doesn't hold theory, but then, you know, they're going to warn us in the end, and they're going to only talk about it, you know, but now it's irresponsible, and we're going to be the only eight of us that won't join this agreement. Don't hold it. Remember the adoption of the European Constitution, when it was almost almost at the point that we would actually get it, and one country said: no thanks. And we don't have it. I'm not discussing whether it's good or not, but what I'm saying is that it's not true, and now I don't know what kind of international scandal it is, and I don't know what kind of fall it is. Has this country lost its reputation in Europe? It's not. We all know it's good. As far as this is concerned, I must say that it is wrong and it is right for the Slovenian public to repeat a few things that are crucial for them to know, if they do not already know the content, at least what is the order of the decision-making process. The fact is that my colleagues have already made it clear in their presentation that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will ultimately decide on this, on the referendum and on ratification. But we can't come to this action at all, because the EU is already going to stop the thing. Why open and excite people today, but if we do not really have certain answers. Last but not least, you admit that you do not know all the questions or even say otherwise, you have made a few claims today, I must say that I am quite amazingly surprised, I will quote them “unforeseeable but negative effects or consequences of this agreement”. Really? How do you know that? Based on what, is there a study? You didn't quote her. Where did that source come from? Let's move on. You say there's going to be a quality diet, the standards are going to fall. I apologize, we already have European arrangements within the European Union family today, how our food must be. But am I accidentally mistaken that I recently saw on TV that from Poland, by the way, members of the European Union, we had salmonella in eggs, meat. And we're not even working on Canada's trade agreement. What is it now? But now we have super-protected food? I don't see any problem with defining very clearly what and where these instruments are. Let's move on. You said the services would be less quality and we'd pay more for them. Tell me what services, how much we're gonna pay and where you found out. How did you find out? Tell me, where is this analysis? What do I mean? I'm not saying it won't be true. Far from it. But I don't hope to say anything I don't know. And you claim and place the fact as the most evil truths on this planet just to get to mine, I will use your words, "bomb," which is called the consultation referendum. Shall I tell you what happened at the consultation referendum we had in the Republic of Slovenia regarding the provinces? 10.8% of voters came to vote and supported, 10% of Slovenes and Slovenk supported the decision of the provinces. What happened? And that can't be a criterion. As a rule, when people do not have information when they do not know things, they do not want to decide and simply do not come to the referendum at the end. Orban also wanted to make a difference, and in the end, the people told him no. And the polls showed that it was going to work, and eventually it didn't work. That is why I would not play with people in such a way that I would in any way like to give them something and in the name of the people have the right to make decisions. That's true, but when they have full information and when things are clear, this moment is not. Therefore, I absolutely cannot support such a decision. But I believe we're going to listen to some truth until the end. Let me finish. The same agreement makes it very clear: the CETA Agreement allows the European Union and its Member States and Canada to adopt and apply their laws and regulations governing economic activity in the public interest to achieve legitimate public policy objectives. such as protection, promotion of public health, social services, public education, environmental security, public morality, social protection or consumer protection, privacy and data protection, and promotion of the protection of a culture of diversity. I read wrong, unlike you, but it's true that you don't believe anything and you wouldn't believe even if you accepted something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u65	Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. A bunch of debaters have been reported for this item on the agenda, but we will obviously end up very early because members of the coalition types are repeatedly dropping out of the debate, which I am not surprised to hear because the debates I heard from them clearly show that they have nothing to say. But they have given a lot in the past, not just Members, but representatives of the government. One of those, I'm going to say, almost cute statements I intercepted was, "If we don't sign the CETA agreement, yes, then who will we trade with?" Who are we dealing with now? Are we not now trading with anyone? CETA is a condition of the possibility of our external trade, no, of course not. I do not point out this statement by chance; I expose it as an eclectic example of authority that cannot be defended in any way, cannot defend itself in any way, cannot defend its decisions against people, because it knows very well that citizens and citizens are bad and try to resolve themselves by misleading and cynicism, if we do not sign CETA and then with whom we will trade. This is, of course, a very absurd statement. However, he experienced his moment of honesty from the Ministry of Economics, if I am not mistaken, he appeared in the Echoes a long time ago, where he said very clearly: "These agreements will interfere with environmental and social standards, but look, we at the Ministry of Economy are just defending the interests of the economy. So we support this agreement." Then there were the opportunities where the executive branch of the government told the Slovenian public very clearly that it had not read this agreement at all. Even if it is, according to the words of the already-called Cantarutti, to the environment, to the food, to the social security over which the CETA Agreement outlines the question, it simply excites. The interest of the government here is the interest of capital, of earnings, of multinationals. We also call it a free trade agreement in the United Left of CETI, somehow it is already used, but it is not a classic free trade agreement. This is not only about eliminating customs duties, etc., but also about eliminating so-called non-customs restrictions. These are, of course, standards, regulations that give us security, which gives us approximately quality food that defends public services. All of this is something that the CETA agreement wants to overrun, as we know very well, and in the United Left we are untiringly alerting to this. Unfortunately, we remain in power, whether it is liberal or yellow, unheard of. Yesterday, this National Assembly wrote down the right to water in the Constitution. This was a very important decision. I'm still here today, to tell you the truth, I'm still glad we did it today. Happy, satisfied and so on, because water is that basic natural resource, human right, for everyone and so on, I will not now have the whole argument, which, as far as I am concerned, is self-evident, repeated. At the same time, some of the water resources are already under our concessional administration. But what does CETA say about concessional management of natural resources? It defines them as an investment and protects concessions. This means that if we already have some private-owned water or concession, the so-called ICS mechanism and some concessionaire, i.e. an investor, an investor, whatever you want, will get a legal, non-democratic lever to get over the Republic of Slovenia because it protected water resources if they choose not to extend the concessions, withdraw them or anything like that. For now, CETA shows that this is possible. And here, in fact, I don't understand the coalition, because on the one hand, I would build something, protect the water, but at the same time, with my ass, and only with one day of difference. Yesterday we protected the water, today we question it, or you coalition Members question it. If I respond to some further statements made in this debate by not too many coalition members. First of all, here was a representative of Desus, who said she wouldn't go into the content. Yeah, of course I wouldn't go into the content because she doesn't have anything to say, because she's supposed to defend the indisputable. Of course she won't go in front of the camera and say, "Yes, we're in the coalition to actually privatize our water resources when we support CETO." Would you say that? Of course I wouldn't say that, because that's the truth. And public services. And food security. And a Slovenian farmer who will not be able to compete in any way with subsidised large-scale American agriculture. And that is why we can hear statements by the coalition Members that they would not go into the content. Of course, she's a little too painful. We were also able to hear statements about how the public is against the referendum, i.e. because this referendum is not binding. Excuse me, the CETA referendum can at any time be as binding as the authority of the people as you are willing to listen to your own citizens, citizens who have finally elected you and to whom you will be billing in the next elections. The fact that the referendum is not binding See, this is not some floating definition, since the God-given category. [[…]] If you treat it and take it as binding, if you listen to people, you will make it binding because you will respect what people will say. But if you don't want to do that, then every excuse that the dog made at the end of the tail comes in handy, including the fact that the referendum we're proposing in the United Left is not binding. Come in. We have also heard the argument that there will be plenty of time and opportunities for referendum decisions, or, more precisely, for people to speak, or for people to listen when the time is right. We can remember how the ratification of CETA or the government blessing of this agreement took place — quickly, violently, through the National Assembly. At European level, then, in relation to Canada, the accompanying statement, which no one knows how much harder it is, seems more like it's been scratched on the secret paper for now, even though the President of the Government is referring to how we somehow achieved everything we wanted to, and protected the water, and so on. See, that may be true, but it may not be true, and for now it seems to be not true. What I'm trying to say is that at this point, the government is advocating that it's not a good time to ask people what they think about secret agreements. But when the matter comes to the table, when it comes to making a decision, they do or do everything they can to get such contentious things squeezed through the parliamentary mill on the neck of the nose, with their heads through the wall, and those against us, the socialists in this particular case, and you're sneezing, making fun of us, and you're giving us no idea of all the weird motives. There may be plenty of time and opportunities for a wide variety of referendums on such secret agreements, which eventually interfere in the last instance with Slovenian sovereignty, if you allow this time and opportunity to decide people. But for the time being, not in words or in actions, do not show any willingness to have Slovenian citizens and citizens of any critical voice and the right to co-decision in the CETA secret agreement. So all these statements of yours, how time is always for democracy once again, in some future, but now no, look, it's just a bluff. This is a bluff because when the moment comes when we have things on the table, when we should make decisions at the referendum, then put your heads away, hide under the bench, lock yourself in closed board meetings, fence the public as far away as possible from the event and decision-making, and then do your thing. Because you're obviously feeling and thinking about how to answer to your bosses in Brussels, occasionally in Berlin and Washington, and so on, not to our own people. The SMC statements are not quite as different as the ones I just discussed. But there was a very fascinating one debate that talked about strangers, "but we don't know how we're going to deal with this agreement, and these are strangers themselves, and now there's a United Left, some crazy communists doing a barn and panic." Yes, my dear souls, if there are so many strangers in this agreement, if we know so much about him, then why did you support him?Oh, my God! Why did you support an agreement you don't know anything about? Now my colleague Kamal's out there telling me they didn't support the deal. Yeah, he still comes to the plenary session for ratification, and so on, he certainly does. But you also had the opportunity to draw your own government's attention to the fact that, with the hasty blessing of this agreement, you have not done so. In the United Left, we wanted this to stop, but you did not join us in this desire or request. As far as I am concerned, it is a statement that the coalition stands for CETA, at the same time stating that it is full of strangers, that they know nothing about it, absolutely in place. Here is another small correction, a coalition member there talked about the fact that the CETA agreement deals only with the extreme left. I have to fix it here. CETA deals with a radical left, not an extreme left. But what is extreme is the market mechanics that the CETA Agreement introduces into all times of our lives. It's like we don't have enough capitalism right now. More capitalism is coming with this agreement. Even rollers across our environmental standards and food standards and social standards. And if we don't want to conform, there's an ICS mechanism already mentioned here, and some corporation can sue us for the last pots. But, no, it's just something that is ephemeral, a sideline that we're dealing with crazy communists in the United Left, and some serious politicians who are working for the serious well-being of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, including Desus, and the SD, and finally the right opposition are not dealing with it. Excuse me, when there are as many stakes on the table and as many threats as they come with the CETA and TTIP agreements, I will take priority in dealing with this threat and try to do everything we can to stop it and that people get a voice in codecision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you, Chairman. My colleague Möderndorfer, who, after his furious demagogulation as he used to be, finished and left the hall immediately, apparently does not know or understand things well enough or does not take a deep look at them. For this reason, it is also clear why its implementation is demagogic. On the one hand, it accuses us of populism, which is a reflex, I think, lately, that those who represent power in this country, and probably elsewhere, are discrediting everyone who thinks otherwise. It is sad to say that the issue of trade agreements is only a matter of extreme left; it is a sad fact that no one else is obviously interested in what the consequences will be for the inhabitants and residents, who should also represent them. As far as the constitutional change is concerned. Of course, because he wasn't in the hall when I first discussed him today, he didn't even hear an argument. Of course, a change to the Constitution was necessary, and that is why we voted in the United Left to do so. However, it was not obvious that Comrade Möderndorfer listened when I said why, despite the fact that we have entered into the constitution, it would not be enough if the CETA agreement was announced and maintained in the form that it is present today. This interpretative declaration and, in particular, the agreement do not protect water resources. Even if we have written this right into the constitution, the water will be protected – but what will be the consequences if we adopt this agreement? It clearly states for concessions already granted, we have quite a few in Slovenia, and on the basis of the change in the constitution they will also have to be abolished at the end of the journey, so it will no longer be possible to extend them, a black scenario may happen. A black scenario that assumes that those who have had these concessions are suing the Republic of Slovenia because they will no longer be able to implement them. This is enshrined in the text of this Agreement. Yes, an interpretative statement can be legally binding, that's what I said before, the problem is how it's written. It is not written in a way that would clearly say, 'look at this and it is not allowed', but it is a very broad general phrase that is not an in-depth interpretation, but it is mainly or almost exclusively a list of wishes or some kind of like formulation of certain concerns. Even if the interpretative declaration is an integral part of the agreement, that does not mean much. It's about how it's written and what it says. And that's problematic, and I'm in trouble with that. This interpretative declaration should make it clear that Slovenia will never agree to certain points which it points out in its statement. But it doesn't say that in there. Of course, it is a bilateral statement, colleague Möderndorfer may know international law, and in international law, bilateral moves are those that are legally valid but not unilateral, that is perfectly clear to me. But the fact is, an interpretative statement of these concerns does not remove it. Making fun of people isn't asking for a consultation referendum. And yes, of course the electorate and the electorate are unpopular with the referendums, because look what you've done with the referendums. We erased most of the things that could have been decided at the referendum from the constitution. The United Left was not at the time, and in such a form as we were then, especially as some advanced civil movement, we had already strongly protested against such constitutional changes. This move has reduced the possibility for citizens and citizens to influence decision-making, but has also symbolically reduced the importance of the referendum institute itself. Yes, they object, 66% of people object to a referendum because it costs money, because in the end people feel that it doesn't mean anything and so on, there's not enough reason to say today, well, look, because even people don't want a referendum. People don't even want CETA – what now?Oh, my God! You signed, signed the agreement, insist that some things will be done, the ICS reformed and so on. But where are the citizens and who's listening? The government coalition obviously doesn't. What was the point of colleague Möderndorfer, however, were studies to suggest that the study is not that we are actually manipulating and speculating. If someone is speculating, I think that he is attacking our very legitimate proposal and thus a very good number of citizens and citizens of the European Union. Study her in tons. There is a study by Thomas Fritz, which was made for the German region of North Rhine-Westphalia. It follows from this study that the CETA and TTIP agreements would have an impact on current regulatory rules, one of the biggest traps of this agreement, public procurement laws, health system planning, public sector workers' standards and standards, real estate market, transport and even a ban on fracking. And these are the elements of the social state that are threatened by such agreements, and I have also highlighted them in a complementary presentation by the applicant. There's a Tufts University study from the United States. There is a Capald study prepared by the Centre for Economic Policy Research at the European Commission. There is a study of the German trade union network, a two-time study of the Centre for Business Excellence, there is a study of the University of Göttingen, there is a study by the NGO ClientEarth that also warns that such agreements threaten renewable energy sources and even promote trade in dirty energy sources. The study is on dozens and what is the common denominator of these studies is that there are virtually no or negligible positive effects. As I said in the introduction, we are talking about dozens of percent, and on this basis we are now listening by the Government and also by coalition Members to see what the effects of this agreement will be. In my discussions, I don't like to repeat myself, but on the board, I said, would anyone in a sane mind, I don't know, go and tear down one of the bearing walls in their own house, their own apartment, to see what the effects would be? You don't do that if you do it, I don't know, static calculation, and so on and see what happens. But we went to sign an agreement, assuming that we would see how it would work in practice. And that's what makes no sense. If there is anything we can do today, it is to at least partially stop this process, to tell the Slovenian government that it does not agree to tell our MEPs that Slovenia disagrees and that we are also stepping up this pressure that has been going on for some time and that is the voice of the people in this process and is, of course, trying to appeal to the centres of power. Because we know that the centers of power do not have a hearing, but, above all, they do not have a hearing for the common people and residents. So much for reacting to the evidence of populism and deception. Perhaps even at the edge of food, especially genetically modified organisms. The text of the Agreement on page 202, second paragraph of Article 25.2, clearly states that "the Parties shall take care of the exchange of information in the field of risk assessment, on the basis of which a decision on the use of GMOs is taken." And then in the same paragraph, it goes on to say that "the parties will cooperate in the field of regulation with a view to minimising regulatory practices on trade." Of course, at first listening, it may sound like some kind of legally complicated language, but what does that mean? This means that we will talk, negotiate with the largest producers of genetically modified organisms – Canada is among the world's leading producers of such organisms – how, of course, we will implement the use and at the same time negotiate how to minimise regulation in this area so that they can sell these products. And that's what traps are, that's what the dangers of this agreement are, and that's what I'm afraid, except for the Members of the United Left in this House. And talking about things being protected – that's misleading, that's populism. They're not! Tell me they didn't. Read a joint interpretative statement, nowhere clear, irrefutablely written that this is not permitted. It says that, of course, we can talk and try to avoid certain things. But that's not enough. The text of the agreement is clear and makes things possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Stravs Podlogar, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u70	Your Honor, thank you so much for saying that! In view of the contradiction of yesterday's entry of drinking water into the Constitution and the CETA agreement itself, I would like to provide an additional explanation, honourable Members and Members, that the provisions of CETA are not contrary to the new provision of the Constitution of Slovenia. CETA provides that the Parties may continue to decide for themselves whether or not to make commercial use of water and may also change related decisions. Moreover, as the European Commission has also stated, the country will also be able to regulate the use of water for commercial use for reasons of public interest. This is also due to specific reservations imposed by the EU or implemented by CETA on a proposal from Slovenia on the basis of which it joins the right to maintain or take any measures concerning the distribution of water, including the provision of drinking water, and to organise certain services, such as the provision of drinking water, in the form of public services, either in the form of monopolies or in the form of specific concessions granted to private entities. The agreement will not affect the scope and quality of public services in the Republic of Slovenia. Even if the ICS becomes effective after ratification, if or when it occurs, Slovenia will have to take into account the basic rules for the protection of investments in decisions relating to already granted water rights for commercial use, but this does not mean that Slovenia will automatically be subject to the ICS dispute due to regulation, since the dispute can only be triggered for reasons such as denial of judicial protection, fundamental infringement of the prescribed procedure, apparent arbitrariness or targeted discrimination. That's it for the extra explanation, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić has the floor, and then again the Government's representative and Mr Matej Tašner Vatovec. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. The fact that so many Members have opted out of the debate testifies to the fact that we do not know or know what you will decide. We've got reading rooms. There are a thousand 600 pages of documents, mostly in English. Nor could the representatives of the European Commission believe that we do not have the whole document translated. Most are in a very difficult legal language and most Members, hand to heart, have no idea what it says in there. We are under a very strict commitment not to tell the public what it says and what we read. However, the negotiating documents and other TTIP activities should not be available to the public for another thirty years. Does this seem good to you? At the same time, we were convinced that the United States was probably representing such a position. But no, you won't believe it, it was the European Commission's request! In short, if anyone thought of a Slovenian farmer, I asked myself. Mr Horvat of New Slovenia is proud to have signed a request for a mixed agreement. This mixed agreement gives us that the matter is still on the table today and corporations under the ICS system can sue countries three years after the agreement expires. In short, what are we playing with? On 2 May this year, the Dutch exhibition Greenpeace revealed documents that clearly show that European agriculture will be severely damaged. Because American agriculture has a great interest, their values will increase, while European exports will be very minor. In short, I'm asking you, has anyone asked the farmer's opinion? For when I am on the Committee on Agriculture, the representatives of the Trade Union of Farmers say, "We can't believe it! While you in the United Left are defending our interests, the people we love are laughing at us." Even today, I feel like you're laughing at people who only want people to know what they're deciding and what their destiny is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Stravs Podlogar, representative of the Government, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I've said what I intended to say before.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u75	Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, the proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u76	I'm not going to do it again. But there is another argument that needs to be rejected, and this is a claim, we have heard from the representatives of Desus several times, and this is what may be even more significant, by the President of the National Assembly, that when the ratification law comes, an agreement that will fall under Article 3a of the Constitution. Therefore, an agreement which confers powers and which could then lead to a referendum under this Article. The second problem in this regard is that we are also hearing all the time that this ratification will probably not be addressed by this call from the National Assembly, because it is likely to come later, after 2018, if regular elections occur, and that this will be a question for other Members or for the next call. A colleague from Desus even said that if we had a consultative referendum now, he would not be bound by that reference or any later Members. I understand this as just one aspect, or as one message, and this message says, "Look, we have now signed the agreement," of course I am aiming primarily at you, colleagues from the coalition, "what will then happen, and it is no longer our business. Let someone else do the ratification. We will not blame it, and in fact we have solved the whole situation." But avoiding responsibility is not what should be the work of Members and Members. Of course, a witch or someone who can predict what will happen is no one. Here I agree with my colleague Möderndorfer. Of course, no one knows exactly what it will bring, but nevertheless there are certain aspects of information, there are certain aspects that also make this reference to try to predict what its decisions mean. What decisions about the various acts we take in the National Assembly mean; what does the budget mean, what does a certain law mean, what it will bring, not only for the duration of our mandate, but what it will actually mean for a longer period of time. So I don't know, well, now to talk about not calling for an advisory referendum, but the one that will be bound is again some sand in the eyes. I have previously raised the question of who ensures that this type of ratification will take place. The answer was partly given by Borut Mahnic, Head of the International Law Sector at the MZZ, at the time of the committee's consideration of this proposal, and he said that the call for such a referendum should take into account consistently the article 3a, which defines the conditions. He pointed out that only in the ratification process when the law is being prepared, and in particular after a decision by the Court of Justice of the European Union, will it be possible to assess whether such ratifications are or are sufficient transfers of sovereignty or sovereign rights. And then the assessment, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is likely to give an opinion on, what kind of ratification is going to be. So I repeat, it's not populism that we, in the United Left, are trying to present in our own way some wake, some appeal that maybe a little more attention be given to these themes. And, above all, the statements made by some indicate that it is a kind of populism or, as has already been said, a demagogy. Of course, calm the public down, with all the means, try to reassure the public with all the arguments that CETA will bring nothing bad or there are still certain security guards and so on. In this conceivable tone, exactly what is the point disintegrates, and usually the essence is always what is hidden in the background. And in the background, there are negative consequences, which, yes, studies also show, and I think it's the core or the cage of the whole problem. And that is why the consultative referendum; a consultative referendum, which will at least in one way or another mean the possibility that will happen now or in a short time, and not speculate. It does not speculate on the consequences of this agreement, speculates on whether it will be a ratification within a few months or a few years or a few decades in the National Assembly, speculates on whether it might be a better and possible referendum under Article 3a of the Constitution, and does not speculate primarily with the fate of the inhabitants and inhabitants of this country. That's why we suggested it, I think you've gotten used to it by now, that the United Left doesn't do things headlessly, even though you try to discredit us sometimes. I think this case is exemplaristic. This is how we propose that this referendum be signed. We'll decide next week, but I hope you'll change your mind by then.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since time has not yet run out, I ask if there is any other desire for discussion. This also applies to representatives of the Government and the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. It's best to continue the mirror. My colleague Kordish said we're checking out mass, and we're not even in the hall, and then he left the room. So I tell my colleague Kordish, through technology and technology, to be a little careful and not to tell others something he doesn't do. I had only 8 seconds left, which I made clear yesterday, was essentially too little when I pulled over the estimated time of five minutes, except that I would say hello in eight seconds, so I just indicated that I would leave the word to the next one, which is, of course, our problem and not his. Thus, I think that it is enough to take care of his parliamentary group and not to engage others in a way that has been offensive to the cities and, of course, also in this sense, I expect the chairmen to be alerted to such an inappropriate way of performing, because not least of all the dignity of the National Assembly, but at least I want it for myself. Mrs Violeta Tomić said that we have no idea what we are talking about, but I must conclude that she also missed the agenda, which I like to point out. We do not have TTIP on the agenda, we have only a question of the CETA consultation referendum and therefore, of course, to tell us that we do not know what we are talking about is a bit bold and, of course, extremely populist, because it is not based on facts. Please, I think it is right that we respectfully discuss each other's views and that it is not offensive to others. As far as the agenda item you used, as colleague Möderndorfer said before me, is a populism performance. You spoke mainly about CETA; more about CETA, but of course about the fears and dangers that CETA itself brings. I hope that, just as you have acted decisively, you are also very well aware of its content and that if you vote on the call for an advisory referendum, you will be able to follow what the Constitutional Court says 19 years ago that voters should be thoroughly aware of the content of the question they are voting on. On the basis of what you said in your debate that it is almost a thousand 600 pages, which are partially accessible, I do not believe that you would succeed if you called for a consultation referendum, the voters are thoroughly aware of the content of the question that they would vote on, which confirms the words he has said – and of course you have come to terms with my client colleague, Mr Möderndorfer, when he has given you a populism. This is populism because it is not based on facts, because today we would expect the facts to vote on the consultative referendum. If I go a little further. We would ask voters a question that we could only rely on, as has been said in the debate, on who they trust more: their feelings, the persuasiveness of the performances, and certainly not the facts. I think that, with all the arguments that have been put forward, there are more than enough reasons that we cannot support such an advisory referendum and that, in particular, for the reason that it has been repeatedly highlighted and that I should also reiterate it in my debate. The question is that the consultative referendum means only one guide that the National Assembly or decision makers can or may not take into account in their follow-up and, of course, take responsibility for it. Too often, the referendums have been used precisely to transfer responsibility for decisions to all residents, and those who are set to make responsible decisions on important issues - and I agree that this is also important for all the people of the Republic of Slovenia - to take responsibility for them and that everyone can hide behind the decision if the people so decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Vatovec, of course, knows one rule that applies, but he doesn't like to respect it, especially when he deals with me. But the rule is, when you run out of content, you go on a personal attack and start dealing with the one who talks instead of dealing with what he says. Look, after two years, as far as you know me, you know my way of doing things, and you know I'm not getting any excited, because in two minutes, I can be fantastic in talking to you. But I didn't come out, but I went out because the press was waiting for me. It is not my duty to sit here and listen to you, but it is your duty, because you are a proponent to monitor the entire debate. The same goes for the government. So much for the process itself. However, as we are talking about because my question has been very clearly raised, where did you get the allegations that you mentioned, and for this you did not mention any study, no research. You said some American, you didn't say, no one, no source, no access, nothing. That is why I find it extremely improper to talk to each other in this way. But let's just say I miss it. The fact remains that your rhetoric has changed a little by now from the committee, and the debate we had on the committee. You are well aware that an interpretative agreement, an agreement that has been written, has now been taught from the committee to this day that it is internationally binding – a treaty. So you don't just let him go, and you know you don't have an answer for that anymore. This Article 31 shall be binding on all partners who sign the International Treaty; whether or not this is the case with the United Left. The court understands that. You don't have to. But it is true that populism is the one who is the greatest enemy in ignorance and behavior, and that is what politics is doing. I'm not just talking about you. I'm talking about all of us. And that's why it's dangerous when we play with people, with their emotions, but we don't deal with content. Once again, the procedure is clear: the contract or agreement of the CETA economic agreement was and started with the 2009 negotiations and lasted during the Pahor government, during the Janša government, during the Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek. All representatives within Slovenia in charge were able to monitor and know what was going on within the European Union. Of course, the negotiations were secret. Today's obvious why the negotiations were, that's untransparent. Excuse me, there are also two companies that talk before they conclude an agreement and before it is agreed — unless it is of any other substance — it is also always closed to the public. Because he'd have been burned otherwise, we'd have sat at the table before. So it doesn't look like I'm some kind of goddamn advocate of CETA. Far from it! I repeat: I do not have all the information, either, in terms of what happens when we are just before ratification. But then it will be clear and because, in the middle of our country alone, three governments have changed – three governments have changed before the negotiations are under way – there are, of course, requirements for the interpretation of what has been negotiated in all European Union Member States. And this explanation is now an addition to this interpretative agreement, which in some ways also protects – I know that you will not agree with this, sorry O.K., but it is just you. Interesting! There are no other political options in Slovenia that would categorically reject because they know that they do not really have all the data. But they will have a very big word, all of us, I'm afraid not in this term, but in another, if not in our craftsmen, that we will speak, of course, because then we will have all the cards on the table. And unfortunately, there is also no claim when you say that there will be no binding referendum, that this is what we are saying today, the larifari, when the moment of truth comes, but we will decide here. I'm sorry, don't tell me the truth. I don't care, and I want and want, and I demand, and I expect, from the National Assembly, that when it comes to this moment, that I will transfer part of the sovereignty from the judicial branch of power to another authority, so that of course the people will also decide on it! We have one thing written down in the constitution, and that's why such deception has been reversed. But today we will reject this for one simple reason, which is not a good time. Not that you are wrong in terms of concern, we all have the right to worry about it. And you don't own that you're only interested in whether we're going to have water or whether we're going to have genetically modified foods or whether we're going to have ICS or so-called kind of courts that are going to decide on, I'm going to say, certain investment disputes. This is irresponsible and unresponsible. And don't tell us we're advocates of CETA. But we are advocates that we do not throw 4 million away for the consultation referendum, and we are advocates that we do not simply ask people for nothing; especially when the question is not clear; the question of what they will really decide. If I ask my colleagues and they say, "You, are you in favour of this trade agreement?" I always tell them, "It's not quite a clear picture yet, and when the time and time are right, we'll decide on it. I'm sure you'll be asked that question." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor. Here you go. Here you go. Procedurally, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I listened with interest to the debate by my fellow Member and everyone else. I have to say, it's a really interesting topic and it's pulling more and more. But we still have to be careful when the system fails. Overtime was more than a minute and a half, and then something will happen again when someone else turns up and we'll start dealing with these things again. I also call on the services to respond appropriately when there is a complication, because the Member was really nothing to blame in this case, but on the other hand, such matters are used very quickly when someone else is having a discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Of course I'm sorry. I wasn't used to having to control it because she really canceled the technique and I didn't break up. Thank you very much. Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. I will begin where my colleague Jani has finished, namely with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where in article 3a, which I have also mentioned today in the position of the Group of Members, and that there will be no different interpretations, I will also read this article or only paragraph 1 and then what continues, which relates to this paragraph. Thus, "Slovenia may, by an international treaty ratified by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of all Members, transfer the exercise of the work of sovereign rights to international organisations which" – in this case ICS, the International Court of Investment Disputes – "and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the principles of the rule of law, and enter into a defence relationship with countries based on respect for these values. Before ratifying the international treaty referred to in the preceding paragraph, the National Assembly may call a referendum." A binding referendum. This question raised by colleague Möderndorfer, whether we will now call for one consultative referendum, and then we will call another one, or we will now give 4 million, and then we will give another 4 million for the referendum. This referendum you are proposing is not binding. But he's a consultant. By the fact that the CETA agreement is not fully in force, but only in the parts that touch upon the powers that we have conferred upon us by entering the European Union, and I do not know where the problem is here. It was innumerable, and countless debates were also held in the period until 2014, when the negotiations were concluded, because now, during this period when we were sitting in the seats of Members, there was, above all, a talk on the T type that has always been attached to CETI. And this is still happening today; Mrs Tomić has proved this today because she has mentioned twice or three times that this agreement is a secret, and that is exactly what Mr Kordish has done. And that's not true! That's not true! Three clicks in Google you type in: CETA agreement, text – and you have it. And it's also translated into Slovenian. That way, I wouldn't be deceiving people anymore, please, because there's no need. Moreover, this lack of confidence in the negotiating team, which is reflected in what you are doing with this CETA agreement. I would like to thank the negotiating team, the experts, the ministry, the minister, the secretary of state, who have invested countless hours in protecting the three main key points concerning water. In principle, we knew that we would write water into the Constitution and we wrote it down in an international document, which will be written in both the Official Journals, both the European Union and Canada, this is an international legal document. You've read or said why we don't give the people a voice. I told you why not, as far as this consultative referendum is concerned. You also said that no country had a CETA referendum. You said we were undemocratic, that we didn't want to give people a vote for CETA. So you think all the countries of the European Union are undemocratic? There's been a lot of talk about this CETA. In short, I repeat that this point does not require a referendum on the CETA agreement, but in particular it would be a considerable cost, given that this referendum would be non-binding and that we will then have to, or will not, carry out another referendum or depending on how the then State Assembly decides to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I apologize if in some parts of my discussion I was misunderstood, because I only had two minutes and maybe I was in a hurry. Let me repeat once again what is the meaning of this debate and why TTIP and CETA are together. The fact is that CETA opens the TTIP door wide and can therefore be dealt with in a set. CETA also opens the door wide to American capital, as we know that there are many multinationals in Canada who will come to Europe through CETA with their regulations. Furthermore, Mr Horvath has also misunderstood that we have in any way condemned you to be under-informed. I'm talking about everyone. We're all under-informed. In fact, the consultation referendum would allow a wide range of citizens and citizens to be informed of what is going on and what can then be said. Of course, it is a reasonable thought and perhaps a concern to express ourselves against what is then. For when we were representatives of the National Assembly in Brussels last December, it was on that day that the Civil Initiative Stop TTIP – we are talking about TTIP, yes; CETA is only a twin sister – gave 3 million and a half signatures to Mr Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament. What happened? Nothing happened! And that's what I'm talking about, dear colleagues and colleagues! About the water resources, when you say they're so protected. I am very pleased that you believe this, but the provisions of the CETA Agreement as an investment or investment also define the concessions granted for research and extraction of natural resources. And I think there's no doubt that we all agree that water is a natural resource and falls under this category. At the same time, it is stated that where a party allows the use of water resources for commercial purposes, it will also do so in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement. This means, in practice, that in the case of concessions for commercial water use already granted – already given in the past and these concessions – we will also have a mechanism, the famous ICS mechanism for investment protection. So companies will be able to sue us and the question is, how much will we have at all to protect yesterday's recorded water resources into the constitution? Or we may have serious problems if we do not want to renew these concessions. The same applies to the supply of water to households. Although certain reservations have been made in the annexes, where the concession for the services provided has already been granted or will be awarded to the private in the future, they can also sue us; and these compensations will be millions! Estonia, for example, has been sued for not allowing the price of water-supply services to be raised and the investor demands as much as 90 million. In the event of wastewater treatment and disposal, however, the reservation is even less. Since I am running out of time, I will just jump to the fact that the European Commission has openly acknowledged that the TTIP – and again I am talking about the TTIP that CETA opens to its wide door; do not believe that America will agree to less rights than Canada does – to strongly strengthen the pressure on the environment. It is most directly threatening the European Union's environmental regulations, which are known to provide a much higher level of protection than in the US. Among these is the most important one that regulates the use of chemicals called REACH and its purpose is to protect human health and the environment from hazardous substances used by companies in manufacturing or other processes. With regard to greenhouse gas emissions, the European Commission estimates that 11 million metric tonnes of CO2 would be added to the atmosphere at its most favourable time. I'm sorry I'm running out of time, but we have arguments and we don't think about them. The difference between us is that we heard Greenpeac's argument, the unions, the economists, and you don't want to hear these arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you very much. A replica? Procedurally, please, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President, for an opportunity to discuss the process itself. In my previous speech, I spoke about the fact that today, on the agenda, we have a point on the Proposal for a Consultative Referendum on a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. I have previously explicitly pointed out that we are talking about whether to call a consultation referendum and I hear only from the proposer about the content of CETA and the consequences of CETA. I expect, I understand that you as a person are very patient and that you are willing to listen to any debate on the basis of principle in that place above, as Dr Logar says, that he can say what he wants in this House because the Constitution protects him. However, I think it is right that we should always focus the debate on the agenda we are talking about and therefore this call. And if we are using the extra time now past the agenda item, then it is only right for the chairman to point that out, and because he is not, that is why I have also asked for a procedural question. I really ask all the debaters to talk about what the content of the agenda item is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The process itself understands that I am in charge of the debate process and that the Government or the proposer responds substantively, so that I cannot do so. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I propose procedurally, Mr Vice-President, that all Members and Members of Parliament, 90, distribute this letter, which I have co-signed, because unfortunately, colleague Violet Tomić does not understand the content of this letter, and I have also spoken about it on the working body of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I am really proud to have signed this for the benefit of Slovenian farmers, all citizens and citizens, including you, dear colleague Violeta, and also for the benefit of the United Left, to understand, all citizens and citizens. Because you haven't read it, but it would be good for you to understand what it says. This is an initiative for the European Commission, a better demand for parliamentarians, signed at the COSAC Conference in Athens, when Greece chaired, and a very interesting date – the national holiday of the Republic of Slovenia, 25 June 2014. When you were in the election campaign — and it was nice that you were — I was on a business trip to Athens and we studied this letter, designed it, and cosigned it. It is very important and I say that this requirement of the national parliaments to the European Commission has been crucial for us to once adopt a law on the ratification of the CETA Agreement here. So here was a request, as you will be able to read that the CETA agreement, as well as the TTIP, when, if it will have the character of a mixed agreement, the'mixed agreement', which means that this trade agreement must come to national parliaments for confirmation. If that's bad, then I apologize if I signed it, but I'm sorry, just you, Violet Tomić, and not the other citizens, because I did it for everyone's sake. Now, if you'll accept it, O.K., if not, also O.K.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you very much. It was a procedural abuse. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Because it was a clean debate. If you put it online, sent it to the Members, then they have it and they can read it, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u92	Mr. Vice President, now you don't understand. I did not put this online, it is online, but that the Members could have it on the table, I suggest once again that your services be distributed, printed, copied and distributed to all the Nineties Members so that no one will ever accuse me as Violeta Tomić of signing something that is to the detriment of this country. Do you understand now, Mr. Vice President, what I want? It's purely procedural, it's about dealing with this point, leading this point, and I don't know how else to propose it. I am not, New Slovenia is not the proponent of this material, we have studied it respectfully, we have also taken our position and we cannot put the material together, so please, Mr Vice-President, and I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u93	I thank you, too, but this was again an abuse, because the Members who wanted to, if you sent them, have, if they did not have, no; but put them online. Now we can't underestimate people and put papers on the table if we're talking about eGovernment, e-business and so on. We're putting everything online, so it's also online, and whoever wanted to, you've done the commercial, they're gonna ask. Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word. Here you go. Here you go, Dr. Mitja Horvat. I'm sorry, procedurally. I'm sorry. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you. I'm afraid this agenda item is slowly slipping out of hand. First of all, my colleague Horvat procedurally suggested that we stick to the subject, but just before that, my colleague Möderndorfer was actually talking about us proposing a consultative referendum without justifying why it is necessary. I think that today all the debaters – and not only speak for us, but also for the other parliamentary groups – are all holding up the subject and discussing what are actually the reasons for the call for this consultation. We had one procedural colleague of Horvath and then some strange, immediate response, although he only raised his hand – I don't know why you gave him your word, so the vice-president, please give us these 11 minutes to keep practicing over the course of this session. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much, chairman, for your opportunity. I would like to support my colleague, his procedural proposal was also in line with what I have stressed in the debate. We expect from him who leads the session that he cares about the dignity of all those present, and in this case, something that Mr Jožef Horvat has now reacted to has followed from the debate and will remain in the magnetogram forever. That is why I understand him absolutely and try to support him if he has tried twice, and I tell you in a slightly different way that Member Joseph Horvat wanted this letter to be a letter, given what was said in the debate, that it remains permanent as a document concerning this item of the agenda in the archives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, so that everyone can be convinced that he will not have to answer in other forums, because he will be able to determine from the material whether the findings that were made during the debate were justified or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Dr. Horvath. If it's online, it's in the archive. There's no doubt about that. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat. But I'd like to ask it to be really procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said if it's online, it's in the archives. What archive? But if you were to say, if it's on the National Assembly web portal, then or it's in the archive, that's another. That's it! Yes, online, but it's not on the National Assembly web portal. Do we understand each other? This is not an integral part of the material that logically belongs to this point. Why are we doing this now? Because it's a misunderstanding. I would like to be supported by my colleague, Violet Tomić. I don't think it's any harm if we enrich your material with that. I think that we are national parliaments, Members of national parliaments, probably back then in Athens and later something has been achieved for CETA to be ratified into national parliaments. This, I believe, is a great achievement because I understand that national parliaments are an integral part of European Parliamentarianism. Please, Mr. Vice President, all nineies will be very grateful.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Then I ask you to send a letter to the President of the National Assembly and it will automatically come to all the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, do you have a discussion?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you. I'll be right back. The only argument ad hominem, as my colleague Möderndorfer pointed out, was that he left the hall. But of course, it doesn't even matter. But the fact is, in my reply, I have answered legally all the concerns he has raised in his first debate and now once again. So wherever he is now, once again I stress to him that these studies are huge. To read online addresses here in front of the entire community, it's a little pointless. But I'm going to give him the addresses of the providers of these studies and also where he can access this material. But I would like to highlight one of the most recent studies, this is Tufts University from the United States. It was also published a few weeks ago and some of the results of this study. CETA will lead to a wage compression. CETA will lead to job losses. By 2023, some 230 thousand jobs will be lost in the signatory countries of CETA. 200,000 in the European Union. CETA will lead to net losses as regards GDP. For Germany, which will be least affected, at -0.37%, France and Italy will be the most affected with almost -0.8% and Slovenia is also on the tail of this scale. This is how we will be more affected by this agreement. Is it really too much to call a consultation referendum, yes, to give 4 million out of the budget reserve for this purpose, to make people aware of the results of these research that are not just like that? That's what economists and analysts do, who have certain knowledge about it. As regards the reference to ratification, this will fall under Article 3a. I mentioned earlier the words of Mr Mahnič, Head of the International Law Sector at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: only when the law on ratification begins to be prepared and only when the European Court of Justice's judgment on the compliance of the ICS mechanism with the European legal order is known will this ratification be known. He also said that the ratification of trade agreements so far had been adopted by a simple majority, including those containing similar arbitration mechanisms. This is not the way to explain to us here today that this agreement will certainly fall under Article 3a, which we will ratify here with a two-thirds majority, but I don't know what. No one can guarantee that. High officials at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who will give an opinion on what this agreement will be like at this time are not as confident as, say, President of the National Assembly, colleague Shaker or colleague Horvat. I think those who play with citizens and citizens at this time are trying to hide the true meaning of these procedures. Within these procedures, there is some importance and full role for the consultation referendum. So far, I repeat, he's the only one who doesn't speculate. He is the only one who does not speculate about what will happen, but gives the opportunity to tell citizens and citizens about it at the moment or within a few months. So, I don't know. As far as democracy is concerned. See, this National Assembly adopted the positions of the Republic of Slovenia a few months ago, which were clear: at least the ICS is totally unacceptable. It is read that the ICS must not be part of the text of the agreement. What happened? A few weeks later, the government built a 100-80-degree plant, which simply withdrew and allowed this ICS to be present in this text. This same ICS, of course requested by the European Commission. Following the conclusion of the negotiations of this ICS there was no CETA agreement. It was requested by the European Commission and subsequently entered into the negotiations and there were many details where the European Commission acted as the main arbitrator of how this process will be conducted. The fact that the negotiations were concluded in 2014 is also a farce, as the text changed considerably afterwards. Let's call this referendum!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Dr. Vatovec. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a consultative referendum on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union, of the other part, and its Member States, of the other part, we will decide on Tuesday 22 in accordance with the schedule of the meeting. 11th, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up with this 37th item of the agenda. We're moving to 22. It's a day's work. This is a second proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on organization and police work. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u102	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and work of the police fulfils the commitments made by the sentences agreements and the agreement between the two representative police unions and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. They also want to improve some of the shortcomings of the current law, which have been shown in the implementation of the law in practice, with the aim of making the police work more effectively than the whole. The aim of the bill is to ensure better organisation and functioning of the police, so that they can face security challenges even more effectively, and to regulate certain aspects of labour and legal relations that are particularly important to the police in a changing security environment. The proposed amendments to the law mainly provide the following essential solutions. In the event of major threats, it is possible to plan and install technical measures to protect police facilities and facilities of special national importance. The situation between uniformed and uniformed police officers regarding the use of their own civilian clothing is being addressed. Protection against the name and image of the police shall be introduced, thereby preventing the possibility of abuse and imposing sanctions for infringements. The establishment of a career system in the police is being regulated. It is also possible to apply for a public publication for candidates who are not yet familiar with the results of their graduation, as the procedure for collecting applications cannot wait until the results of their graduation are published. The rights and obligations of candidates for police officers are also being regulated. The principle of proportionality in the security check, which shall be carried out only before the transfer and deployment of police personnel to posts, shall also be introduced, subject to an additional risk. There is also the introduction of a security check on tenderers who show interest and have also submitted bids for police work. With regard to the reasons for the termination of the employment relationship, the equal position of police officers with other public officials is established. It shall be possible to extend the time limit for carrying out a police examination for a maximum period of one year, provided that there are reasonable grounds for doing so. A system solution is also in place to ensure that the employer responds adequately to the mental health problems of police personnel, to adequate rehabilitation and to protect the dignity of the sick police officer. The amendment to the legal aid provision will simplify the practice and thus provide greater protection for those who carry out their work professionally and legally. Measures to ensure the safety of former police officers are possible when they have been threatened with the work they carried out as police officers. The specificity of the employment relationship of secret police workers is being regulated, with the fact that they face the worst forms of organised crime every day. It is more precisely specified where family members are entitled to certain rights at the time of the death of a policeman in the performance of their duties. It also removes for auxiliary police officers the income limit laid down by the Labour Market Regulation Act for the work of pensioners. The Government is also allowed to decide to recall the auxiliary police for a period of more than 30 days. Time limits are also set for all posts of police officers in the 5th tariff class to be arranged for appropriate posts in the 6th tariff class or for police officers who hold such posts to be moved to the appropriate posts in the 6th tariff class. It also provides for a period within which the employer must allow all police officers who have been transferred to positions in the 6th grade and who have not yet received the 6th grade of education to obtain that education, the method of progress to the higher pay grade and the method of relocation or termination of the employment relationship. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a very important law concerning the organisation and functioning of the police as a key institution of internal security in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is held at its 28th session. Ten. 2016 as a parent labour body, considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the organisation and work of the police, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. Amendments from the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and the Social Democrats were tabled within the time limit. The representative of the proposaler, the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, stressed in the supplementary explanation that the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, which was adopted in 2013, was a good law, as it brought a lot of positive developments. The draft law therefore complements it only where it is necessary in the light of the changed circumstances and the agreements reached with the trade unions following the conclusion of the negotiation process concerning the recent statement of police officers. It is a coordinated proposal, both within the Government and with other stakeholders, and a significant progress with regard to the proper regulation of police status, including their greater social security and legal assistance. The bill creates the conditions for establishing a more efficient career system in the police, solves certain organisational issues, and also fulfils the commitments made to the police by the current and past governments. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly explained that their service had given a written opinion in accordance with its competences, namely Article 8 of the bill. All comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service have been duly taken into account in the formation of the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition. The representative of the State Council Commission said that the Commission was in favour of the proposal for a law, particularly to commend the high level of consensus reached with the two police unions in finalizing their solutions. In the past, the Council of State has repeatedly stressed the need for changes in police operations, particularly with regard to the provision of funding for their work. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their support for the legislative solutions and the proposed amendments, as they bear the fruit of a broad consensus in particular in the police ranks. With regard to the introduction or appropriate upgrading of the career system in the police, voices were also heard that it was a solution without a coherent human resources policy. A staff gap is emerging, which will need to be filled in with other measures over the coming years, but which are not contained in the proposal under consideration, and the transport police are particularly undernourished. They are also concerned about the issue of support structures for police in distress. The State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior explained in response to the issue raised that he was aware of the gaps in the police force, with no doubt the most difficult years between 2017 and 2018. The management, both the Ministry of Interior and the police, are therefore already preparing and implementing appropriate internal measures to help alleviate the situation, including additional employment. The Committee then adopted amendments to Article 26 of the SMC, Desus and SD. This last amendment of the Committee removes the non-life and unfair legal provision to police officers who are injured in their official duties and expose their own lives to the safety of citizens. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text supplemented by the draft law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Verbich. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u106	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! Like the previous novels of the Police Organization and Work Act, when we somehow enabled a larger number of auxiliary police officers to be activated due to the migration wave, today's changes and additions bring good solutions. The fact is that we still have too few police officers to carry out regular duties. We have officers who are poorly paid, poorly equipped, and also overloaded. This situation has also been helped by years of savings when these additional burdens have occurred to the police, mainly due to the migration wave, and we have faced the fact that security savings are questionable and we will have to devote significantly more resources for security in the future than we have so far. And that's just a naked fact. Also in Nova Slovenija we join those who recognize the impact and humanity of police work in the work of police officers, both at regular work and in their work at the migration wave, and we commend them in this place. The fact is, there is also a high level of public confidence among public authorities. In order to preserve this situation, more resources will have to be invested both for additional employment, for improved material status and for education and training of police officers. In this light, the government's commitments, which were given to the police in the framework of the strike agreements, must somehow be implemented. Given that a very broad consensus has been reached on the proposal for today's changes and additions in the police ranks with both police unions, we hope that the Government will be able to fill the emerging human resources gap as soon as possible. The increase in the number of expected retirements and the abolition of secondary education will result in a great deal of human resources in this area in the coming years if the Government does not take all the necessary additional measures in a timely manner. Members of New Slovenia, while regulating or improving the position of police officers, note the uneven status of other comparable dangerous professions, but also point out this, namely firefighters and soldiers. They also often work in dangerous situations, but their status remains at the brink of legislative changes in the field of police action; therefore, in this area too, changes to legislation will have to be made in the future. Members of New Slovenia will also be definitively supported by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Organising and Working in the Police in accordance with the said Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Gardener. Dr Bojan Dobovšek has the floor to present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u108	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Why this proposal for legislation – because we have a continuing problem with the security of Slovenia and security is the good that is worth exposing to Slovenia if we want to be in the future. But it's safe. I don't know why it took a sentence to make these changes. Of course, these are only fundamental changes, and the other changes still have to follow. The proposed changes follow the objective of improving the working situation of police officers in order to improve the substantive legal situation in order to improve the safety of police officers, we see that the safety of police officers is becoming increasingly threatened. And of course that basic driver of work, motivation for work, because wages are a bad, career system and a desire for a profession. What else should we be alert to? Many questions remain open and await solutions in the future. Privatisation of the police – we see that we have a small number of police and, on the other hand, the private sector is growing and somehow creating competition for police work, but the issue of powers, training and everything else in this sector remains open. The role of the police is minimized. We need to re-establish a system in which to give the police the right role. We have modern forms of crime, classical forms have long been exceeded, on the other hand we do not follow, along with the police, this change in society. We need to respond to the paradox of what we want: safety or control. It is said whether police powers will be aimed at human security or control. All modern technology. I would point out the problem that is being observed in the police, namely, population ageing — are police officers, when they reach a certain age, still able to implement all the measures and are they affected by their safety? Of course, we also observe the overcrowding of people and therefore errors in procedures. Therefore, more money needs to be directed towards eliminating such factors. With technological advances, man remains that key factor. All of these are challenges to the police, which must be addressed as soon as possible. Of course, the law solves those basic problems, but it leaves quite an open question and we need to solve it as soon as possible. That leaves a lot of work for the future. The whole system needs to be set up in line with modern police systems, which move from problem-oriented police work to plural police work. In view of all of this, we will support the proposal of the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament, but we expect further work to begin. What do you want me to say? That cops are getting less and less, that money is getting smaller and jobs are getting more and more every day. With the legislation we are adopting here, more and more work is being done by police officers; more and more work is being done in local communities, and more and more demands are being made by the European Union and the international environment. Education and training are therefore needed, and usually resources are limited directly to education and training. In addition, I raise the question of who and how he will educate educators; here is the lack of both in law schools and at all professional levels where police are educated. Finally; we are in the 21st century, unfortunately, just equipment and some other organizational activities in the police remain in the previous century. Therefore, the call for all to encourage the work and security of police officers for future security, because police officers are not only for the safety of citizens, but are also at risk for their safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Dr. Dobovšek. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister! First of all, it's worth commending the work of the police as such. Members of the SMC are aware of the responsibility to ensure an internal security system, which is part of the police. An indicator that this government, led by the SMC, is seriously dealing with the problem of the police, which, I must stress, has been slowly sweeping under the carpet for many years, is also this law that we are talking about today. That is why we support the adoption of this law and all activities aimed at improving the material and technical conditions for the functioning of the police, the appropriate and complete staff force, the remuneration and appropriate payment of police officers. With the amendments and additions to the Police Organization and Work Act, which we are dealing with today, we want both the Government and the SMC to achieve more effective functioning and organisation of the police, as one of the main actors in ensuring Slovenia's internal security, and to give it a clear opportunity to respond effectively to the current security challenges. Allow me to give you at least a few suggestions that we regulate in this law. First of all, the improvement of employment relations, secondly, the establishment of a career system for employment of more than five years, a higher payment for a certain willingness to work in another place, the regulation of the status of secret employees, and the provision of safe and healthy functioning of the police environment, by ensuring a 15-day chance of absence from work to maintain a psychophysical condition. In the case of mental health problems, a policeman – restricting the exercise of police powers and rehabilitation. It also introduces rights for immediate family members of police officers who have lost their lives in the performance of their work and, last but not least, new measures to make the police more effective. Let me remind everyone else that since 2015, when €23.5 million has been allocated, in 2016, €30 million and such a trend, it is said that the increase in funds will continue in the future. Last but not least, which is also very important, it should be added that this bill also fulfils the commitments made under the strike agreements reached, which is also very important for the stability of this system in the police. In view of the above and of the fact that it is necessary to return to the police the place belonging to that country and to ensure operational action, suitable working conditions, adequate working status and adequate payment, we will support the proposal of the modern centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I can point out that we will fully support the law. This law is, on the one hand, the result of an agreement with trade unions, and it brings in various articles such or different supplements to police officers, it also brings about the regulation of the status in the worst cases we have seen recently – it means when a police officer loses his life and, of course, it is true that this country does not forget his family, his children and so on. It's the law that regulates it. I must also say and welcome the public behaviour of the Ministry of the Interior in preparing this law. In fact, they listened to us at the end of the day so that we could get to a text of the law that was appropriate. I must make it clear that we have had some concerns, particularly in the protection of persons and facilities there, and the internal ministry and later the coalition have, of course, respected and respected this in the form of an amendment. Of course, it is not the custom for one minister to praise another, especially if it comes from different kinds — and the minister has slightly forgotten to commend the previous government. Therefore, on behalf of the truth, I must say the following: I have made a personal effort since 1999 to include the police in the higher education group and to require such an education from them. In 2012, we succeeded in this and basic police education under the law of 2012 is, however, a so-called higher education. Since 2012, and for that law, the police will educate a large majority of their staff, who have so far been educated in secondary education, in higher education. This, of course, will also mean at least 3 pay grade in police officers. The process begins with this law and, of course, will continue for a transitional period in which the vast majority of police officers will be paid and such salaries and allowances and education, if you want, i.e. higher education, but the oldest will be subject to a transitional period in which they will also be recognised. I think that in this context it is someone, how can I say, to continue some good work that started in 2012 and continues with this law, and it is right that in such a way of course I will not say let us step together, but it is right to move towards those who are doing the work that is one of the most dangerous works. We are also convinced by the undesirable events we witnessed in Isolah, Brežica, and elsewhere. I hope that this kind of concern will be for the police, their material position, their working position, to continue in future legislation, including in future changes to the laws that are coming, including the police or others. In short, we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u113	The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Benedict Kopmajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u114	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. The amendments and additions to the law we are considering today are the result of successful negotiations by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia. Thus, in June this year, six months after the opening of the sentence, the government negotiating group and the police negotiating group of trade unions have only aligned the content of the strike agreement. Thus, the Government, with the proposal we have on the parliamentary benches, fulfils the commitment made in the agreement with the unions. The proposal eliminates anomalies, eliminates subordinated police posts, regulates the transition to 2016 when the standard of police profession is raised. Since the beginning of 2018, higher education will be required for a police officer’s profession. The law brings many other good solutions that have already been presented by law-makers, so I would not repeat myself here. However, I must say this, in the Desus Group we are extremely pleased that such an agreement has only been reached because the signing of the agreement is the right way to evaluate police work in a material and moral manner. After a long period of conflict, the police will be able to refocus their energy on their jobs and not just think about their social status. You could even say that the law finally separates them from the social bottom. The rise in worse forms of crime, the changing social situation, and also the constant organisational changes, have been increasingly stressful to police work alone. And it is the police who, with their professional, efficient and professional work, constantly care for our safety. We are well aware of this in the Desus Group, so any such agreed amendment is still welcome. Since the proposal for a law makes important progress on the proper regulation of the status of police officers and because the proposed amendments are also supported by the police, we support it in the Desus Group. In the future, we want the Government and trade unions to find common ground in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The current law governing the organisation of police work is somewhat newer; it was adopted in February 2013 and applied two months later. Two textual short novels have also been adopted, but important novels have been adopted from the point of view of the employees of the organisational types. It was the conclusion of an agreement between the Government and the Union with a view to regulating labour relations in the performance of operational tasks in specific working conditions. The bill we are considering today is a little more extensive, but despite these changes it preserves the basic purpose of the law. As in novel A and novel B, this bill also regulates matters agreed between the Government and the police trade unions relating to the regulation of labour relations in the police. Matters relating to the establishment of mechanisms for the planning of a police career are being settled. During the implementation of the regulation, shortcomings have been identified in a particular part, which are now being resolved and I hope that this will happen. The irregularities identified by the judgments should also be corrected and settled. In detail, I will not even go into content because it has already been recognised from the discussion on the home labour body that the changes and amendments to the law are necessary and justified and reach a broad consensus. During the crisis, police officers were given austerity measures, and from this address, police fluctuations were also negative. Police species are reduced not only because of retirement, but also because of poor working conditions, and this latter reason has many effects on non-interest in this profession. The crisis and savings have left negative consequences both in the police and in other professions in the public sector, so these gaps, particularly in the police, will be difficult to fill, as candidates and candidates must also undergo additional training. At the same time, I would like to point out the use of special police powers. If I go back to the financial consequences of employment. Any additional work that is also necessary has financial implications and additional employment in the police, which should be counted in a few hundred additional jobs, will have additional financial implications in the budget despite the retirement of the staff. But the Social Democrats are confident that these changes will have a positive impact on police work, so we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on police and police work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Mursich. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Organization and Work Act is largely a result of a strike agreement between the police unions and the government. As usual, the government and the competent ministry were not prepared to listen to the demands of the police until the latter decided to strike. We are not talking here about new requirements, we are talking about meeting commitments both now and past governments, which have already been made more than once. As practical in all areas of the public sector, we already have a whole set of agreements and agreements that are never implemented in practice. Even in the case of cops, that's how it was. For example, police carried out a warning strike in 2007 because of the inclusion of a police officer in the 20th pay grade. From this period until today, an agreement or agreement has been concluded between the unions and the government each year. Only a small number of commitments have been made. This time, the police were slightly more successful in carrying out the longest sentence in the history of Slovenia. It took 323 days for the government to listen to the demands of the police. For almost a year, then, police had to strike to make at least the necessary changes. But the law that we are considering today will not, of course, solve all problems, because there is still a lot of unrealized commitments. Not only in the police, there is a huge anomaly in the public sector, but, given the attitude of this government and the coalition towards trade unionisation and the fight for labour rights, it is not possible to expect these anomalies to be removed quickly. It is not possible to forget the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, who called the statement of police officers irresponsible, unworthy and shameful and said that it was blackmailing our country, which he would not agree to, regardless of the consequences. What relation it has to trade unions and workers represented, what relationship does the coalition have, has also been made clear when this law is being considered on the home committee. We received additional proposals from the amendments of the police unions in the National Assembly. We have therefore proposed in the United Left that we discuss them and see if any further necessary change could be made to the proposal. Of course, our proposal has not been taken into account. Moreover, the unions should not even present their proposals. Although both representatives were present at the meeting, they were not allowed to discuss by the coalition because they were not invited to the meeting. It is only one of the unacceptable cases of restricting the participation of the professional and interested public, which the Government and the coalition use very often. We draw attention to these undemocratic practices in the United Left. They are not a strike and a struggle for the labour rights of those who are irresponsible, unworthy and shameful, as our President of the Government thinks, irresponsibly, unworthy and shameful is what this government and coalition are doing. As a result, we will not support the bill in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u119	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Tuesday 21st, in accordance with the time frame of the assembly. 11th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the legal relationship and the social dimension within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues! As it is said, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has considered a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which has been submitted by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed colleague, Dimic. Mr. Tone Dolčič, representative of the Ombudsman for Children and Families, representative of the Movement for Children and Families and President of the Voice of Old Parents of Slovenia, Association of Old Parents of Slovenia, Mrs. Metka Zevnik, participated in the Committee or in the work of the Committee, as it was said, the representatives of the Government or the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Justice, the Law and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, the Labour, Labour, Health and Disabled. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the matter in terms of its conformity, was forwarded to the industry and made comments to Articles 1 and 2. We also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which did not support the proposal. Also with the opinion of the Government, which also does not support this law. In its opening remarks, the representative of the proposer or the proposing colleague Dimic pointed out that the basic reason for the adoption of the law is the legal void in the area of the right of parents to express in advance the willingness to adopt or be the guardian of their children in the event of the death of both parents. In the context of the debate, which was quite long and interesting, the majority of the debaters, of course, felt that the proposal was not sufficiently complete and that it did not touch many of the institutions of family and hereditary law which should be addressed. The issue of related relations remains an open one, and the view was therefore that the adoption of such a proposal would lead to more problems than benefits. It was pointed out that the purpose of the applicants should be respected, while at the same time it was necessary to assess objectively what the child’s greatest benefit is at some point. In the event that old parents are still healthy enough, young, capable of caring and raising their grandchildren, it is more unacceptable, in the opinion of the discussers, that parents or adoptive parents become their grandchildren as custodians or foster parents. Such practices already exist, but it is not true that children are never assigned to their parents. It is always first to look at the narrowest family, and if this is not appropriate because of certain circumstances that cannot be changed or corrected, only then will accommodation be sought in third parties. In addition, the proposed solution creates dilemmas in all further succession and other rights that belong to the child after the death of the parents. Children have the right to receive pensions from their deceased parents. It is also intended that those who become foster parents actually have the means by which they can support their children or their children. In the classical adoption procedure, as proposed, the adoption of a grandson would formally establish a new relative relationship, which consequently means the full obligation of self-sustainment. Some of the discussers who supported the bill felt that it was right to adopt the law, but not to wait for the family code, which was in public debate and which the ministry said would be on our parliamentary benches as soon as possible. I would also like to mention the opinion of the Deputy Ombudsman, who said that they agree with the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the opinion of the Council of State. They believe that it is possible for grandparents to adopt grandchildren who do not have a living parent, contrary to the principle of the greatest benefit of the child, since this would dramatically interfere with existing family relationships. Finally, we decided, after discussion, that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u121	I give the floor to the representative of Mrs Ivi Dimic's proposal for an introductory presentation of her views on the proposal of her mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, present at today's session! Our proposal for a new Law on Marriage and Family Relations is a response to the legal void that exists in Slovenia in the area of the possibility that old parents would at least be a party to child allocation procedures in exceptional cases. It has been shown that the bill has opened a debate on the pressing issue of the rights of children, parents and old parents. In Novi Slovenija we are not public and are not talking about various, otherwise sad cases of family tragedies. I reiterate that this proposal is not a direct response to these unloving events. The key principle followed by our marriage is the child’s benefit. The proposal introduces two essential innovations into our legal order. Firstly, the possibility of adoption of children in the case of both parents is extended to old parents if, of course, the procedure establishes that adoption is the most beneficial measure of the child, and secondly, parents are given the opportunity to express in advance their children's care in the event of their death. It is very important to stress that our proposal does not introduce automation, but that the declaration of parental will is taken into account in the process led by the Centre for Social Work. In this procedure, the maximum benefit of the child and the fulfilment of the conditions for the guardian of the designated person shall be checked. A comparative review of the European Union shows that such a solution allows family law to practically all the countries represented. We have read the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service carefully and, in accordance with their recommendations, we have regulated the second article in both nomotechnic and substantive terms. We presented the bill to the SMC, SD and Desus parties who responded to our offer, to the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The talks during these presentations have been very useful to us. Members and state councillors have even proposed some interesting solutions, such as the possibility of adoption to relatives in the same line, brothers, sisters. In adopting grandchildren who do not have a living parent, the old parents set out to seek an imperfect adoption, following the example of a German arrangement that would change only the legal relationship of children with natural parents, not with others. Many concerns were expressed as to the rights and possibilities of the so-called second couple of old parents in the event of adoption by old parents and the arrangement of inheritance. Let me point out that we have written down our solution in a way that adoption would be an extreme measure only if the competent authority recognized it as the greatest benefit of the child. Although these other options are not being used enough, CSDs are not being used. Speakers of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, we have received many expressions of support from citizens of civil society and experts in a broad debate. With this bill, we have opened up a legal area where there is a lot of pressure. We want to respond to these difficulties with the solutions proposed, and we want to make every effort to support or return our marriage today to the parental committee and find common solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Dimic. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Klanjsek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. With the proposed legal change, old parents could obtain parental rights in relation to grandchildren when parents are no longer alive or when both parents are deprived of parental rights. We will not support the proposed law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament. We believe that legislation on the basis of one case does not make sense to amend it. We also wonder to what extent the adoption of this proposal would change the relative relationship and the resulting rights and obligations between children and relatives. I also refer here to the opinion of the Ombudsman, who believes that it is possible for grandparents to adopt grandchildren who do not have a living parent, contrary to the principle of the greatest benefit of the child, as this would dramatically interfere with existing family relations. In her view, the proposal does not take into account the benefits and rights of the other grandparents, which is of course discriminatory. The Ombudsman also points out that such adoption can be best for children only in exceptional cases, but that is not the case in general. In regulating the adoption institute, the main principle and direction of the child's benefit and rights must be, which is also bound by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In view of the fact that a new family code is being prepared at the departmental ministry, we believe in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament that protective measures for children in the field of fostering, care and adoption should be fully and definitively regulated by the family law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mag. Tanja Zink will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go, Mrs. Cink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Vice President, nice greeting to everyone! Following the consideration of the amendment to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the Maternal Committee decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration. We have also supported such a decision in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. There are several reasons for such a decision. The Novela contains two basic solutions. The first gives parents the opportunity to adopt a grandson who does not have a living parent. A second solution, however, gives parents the opportunity to express their will by means of a notary record or a valid will regarding the adoption, exercise of parental rights or custody of their children in the event of their death. Undoubtedly, we want such measures to follow the best interests of the child. With two partial solutions or a change of only two articles of the roof law, as proposed in the amendment under consideration, this cannot be ensured. The biggest criticism in the public has been a solution that would allow old parents to adopt a grandson. We also had the opportunity to consider the advantages and disadvantages of such an arrangement by discussing on the parental committee, but the proposed solution, which was not finalized, could not be supported. The institution of cohabitation is complex and therefore needs to be regulated in its entirety, and a serious consideration needs to be made primarily on the issue of if and to what extent the relationship between the child and the former relatives changes and the resulting rights and obligations of the child. However, this cannot be adequately addressed by amending only one article. The other necessary provisions could not be subsequently introduced even with amendments, since not all articles which should be amended, supplemented or re-added in this case are opened by the amendment, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. The adoption of relatives is different or acceptable in other countries. However, in the countries where they are admissible, the adoptive parents may be relatives to a particular knee in a level or by-line and not just the aged parents. As can be seen from the comparative review of arrangements in other countries, in most cases where the adoption of relatives is admissible, there are also other restrictions and specific provisions. For example, some countries do not have specific legal provisions regarding the adoption of relatives, but they do not prohibit such adoptions. In some cases, the adoption of relatives also assesses the appropriateness of the adopter on the basis of the age difference criterion. For example, the adoption of a relative does not affect the right to contact relatives after another parent. In some other countries, though it is possible to adopt a grandchild, a child without parents is generally appointed as a caregiver. If we are talking about old parents as potential adoptors of grandchildren, it would also make sense to open up a debate on the duty to survive. The bill clearly raises a number of questions to which the applicant offers neither answers nor appropriate solutions. As a result of all of this, we will support the conclusion in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u128	Dear colleagues and colleagues are unable to adopt their grandchildren after the current Marriage and Family Relations Act if their parents die or lose their parental right. It is also not regulated in the current law to allow parents to designate a person, we are talking about a person whose children are to be adopted or fostered in case they die or lose parental rights and such adoption or fostering would not be harmful to the child. I emphasize: the child's damage. If you have only listened well to this opening part, it is practically clear to everyone in this country if, of course, at least a fraction of the empathy is that something is seriously wrong. Parents do not have the right to decide who will take care of their children in case anything happens to them. Of course we don't want to, but the reality is that too. The adoption of grandchildren by old parents was made possible in the family code, which was rejected at the 2012 referendum due to other ideological controversial solutions and was, in fact, one of the best solutions. However, the fact that ideological themes were more important than really concrete solutions did not come into effect. The argument against such a solution, which can be seen in the debates on this issue, is in particular to break the relative relationship of having a child as a parent of an old parent who would adopt him. Of course, such an argument does not hold. It is true that the Slovenian legal order only knows the so-called perfect adoption, by which the adoptive child is completely excluded from the family of biological parents and comes into the adoptive family. This dilemma, however, can be regulated by law in a way that fully preserves the relationship between non - adoptive parents and their biological relatives. This means that only old parents who adopt a grandson become parents and that all other family relationships do not change. Thus, the proposal to amend the Law on Marriage and Family Relations refers to the following: for the first time, the possibility of adopting grandchildren by old parents and, for the second time, the possibility of expressing will on the adopter, the exercise of parental rights and the guardian of the death of parents. It should be stressed that we have prepared similar solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party ourselves, but we have not tabled the proposal because we have learned that the civil movement for a similar law will begin to collect the signatures of citizens and citizens. So those we like to rely on to follow their desires and needs. Of course, we have given this much more weight than we have to put forward such a proposal ourselves, and at the same time today we regret that the greater legitimacy of such a law-making has not been seen by the bill's proponents, which we are considering today. However, since we support the content of the solutions to the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the law should go further in accordance with the procedure, so we reject that such a law is not suitable for further consideration, and we call on respect and respect for it to be understood.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you for your words, Mr President, Members, Members of Parliament, other Members! The Desus Group has no doubt about the well-intention of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, but unfortunately the proposal for a law is flawed, which could not be corrected by amendments, so we do not support the bill in the Desus Group. The bill also provides for the possibility of adopting a grandson who does not have a living parent. In the current law governing family relations, the adoption of a relative at the level of the family is explicitly prohibited. The reasons for the prohibition of cohabitation were, according to part of the legal profession of moral nature, since the legislator did not want to interfere with close family ties. According to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Institute of Relative Adoption is very complex. If the legislator decides to allow adoption of grandchildren, the area of family adoption should be fully regulated. In this case, however, it should be regulated if and to what extent the relative relationship should change and how the rights and obligations between a child and former relatives should be changed. The bill does not contain the necessary solutions, so the adoption of the law in the proposed form would not be of the greatest benefit to children. The open issues relating to mutual family relations in the area of inheritance, the rights of the child by deceased parents concerning mutual rights and obligations in the newly established relationship are too many to solve any problems that may arise in the case of the implementation of the bill with only two open articles in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Open questions should be addressed by relevant experts who pursue child protection. Article 2 of the bill proposes that parents may, in the event of death, express their will regarding the adopter, the exercise of parental rights or guardians if the person fulfils the conditions for the adopter, the exercise of the parent's right or guardian. On this proposal too, the Legislative Service of the National Assembly has raised a number of concerns that should be examined and duly taken into account in the proposal for a law. Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia prohibits discrimination. We wonder how we can then understand the proposal of the proposer, both with regard to the parents' will, which could favour the old parents after only one parent, and with the possibility of adoption by the grandmother and/or grandfather after one parent. Where is the will of another parent in the event that these two do not agree and perhaps even two conflicting wills arise? And where is the potential desire and right of another grandmother and grandfather who might also want to adopt a grandson? If we are considering adoptions within the immediate family circle, we should not limit ourselves to the rights of old parents only, there are other relatives here, such as brothers and sisters, who could be just as suitable for adoption. Members and Members of the Commission, we believe that this is a difficult content that cannot be changed quickly, but not without considering all the consequences of the proposals and without including provisions that would respond to the shortcomings of the bill. There are, therefore, many challenging questions. The Desus Group was aware of the fact that the competent ministry is preparing a new family code, which is expected to be put into the procedure soon in the National Assembly, which will also provide an opportunity to examine this proposal of open issues. In view of the above, in the Desus Group, we agree with the conclusion of the parent working body that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The draft law, which was tabled in the Parliamentary procedure by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - envisioned the adoption of two solutions that our legal order does not yet define. The first solution is the possibility of old parents acquiring, exercising parental rights in relation to grandchildren when the parents of these children are no longer alive or both parents are deprived of parental rights. The second solution, however, implies that parents in a predetermined manner express their will regarding adoption, the exercise of parental rights or the custody of their children in the event of the death of both parents. We have no doubt about the well-intention of the proposer, but we have not supported the Committee's proposal, as it has proved that the proposed solutions show some shortcomings that need to be legally cleared so that there will be no complications when used. We certainly did not oppose the spirit of this proposal in our parliamentary group, that is, the content that would also regulate this grey fox in our legislation. If the proposed law in the proposed text were to be effectively confirmed, a number of issues would be raised, including legal issues, as the proposal for a solution would not follow the greatest benefit of the child, which must be the main guide. The proposal for a new law does not regulate the legal consequences of adoption by old parents. Such adoption would mean an end to the legal relationship between a child and an old parent through the family line of another parent and a change in inheritance that would not benefit the adoptive parent. With regard to the transfer of parental rights on the basis of the parental will, the proposal does not provide for all the legal consequences that the exercise of parental rights entails, inter alia, the issue of maintenance duty, the question of mutual duty of survival, inheritance and so on. In all child-related procedures, the first and most urgent condition is monitoring the child’s benefit. The proposal, however, does not determine whether it is the parent’s will to take care of the child after their death, in fact, for the child’s benefit. All of this must be a mandatory component of the proposal that we will accept. Even with such good intentions and such a great desire, despite the New Slovenia proposal, it is not possible to correct and supplement it with an amendment. Because of this fact, because of all that has been said and given what has already been said about this subject, we believe that our common goal is to adopt a solution that will be truly optimal: good for children and old parents. This is the solution the Ministry already has and promises that the proposal for the Family Code will be in the National Assembly in January 2017, so we will support the proposal of the Social Democrats to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. I quote: "It is not possible to adopt a relative in a kind except a grandson." Then here's another quote: "If he adopts a child one of his old parents or both, they shall not cease the right and obligations of the relative to the relatives of the one who adopted him, nor shall they cease the right and obligations of those relatives to adopt." This, of course, is not the text of the New Slovenia proposal. This is the text of the 2012 Family Code; the code that both New Slovenia and Aleš Primc helped bring down the referendum. Today, however, you are virtually competing who will be more clearly committed to the same solution. With this difference, the family code was at least appropriate, but what is before us today is all more like a solution. The New Slovenia proposal does not guarantee the greatest benefit of the child. After this proposal, for example, one grandfather and grandmother are taken literally because grandparents on the one hand would become fathers and mothers, and on the other hand, grandparents will become nothing. The law also gives adopted grandchildren the right to inherit. And if at the time of the referendum campaign against our novel 3 ZDR representatives seemed impossible to explain to the child why he has two fathers or two mothers, they have no problem explaining to the child that the grandmother is his grandmother on Monday and the aunt on Tuesday is her mother and aunt. Besides, explain to him that other grandparents are no longer grandparents, but they are no longer related to him. When we look at comparable arrangements, it's clear that it's not as simple as the right one shows. It is certainly a topic that has been misused politically since the family code. Together with the entire political right and the support of the Roman Catholic Church, the question of adoption of grandchildren was used as an excuse both to reject the family code and our novel 3ZDR. This was one of the excuses for a referendum on the human rights of same-sex couples. Since the fall of the family code, today’s proponents have been trying to present to the public a completely wrong picture of the regulation in force. They all the time claim that, following the current regime, in the event of the loss of both parents, the State will allow the adoption of complete strangers. Of course, that is certainly not true, always looking for custodians among family members. Adoption by a third party is the last option, even though no relative is suitable or unwilling to adopt a child. As a rule, then, the child stays in the environment he knows among the people he is accustomed to and so on, which is, of course, right. In such arrangements, grandparents remain grandparents, and aunts and uncles remain aunts and uncles. Because this is far more logical than the death of parents from a family tree simply being erased. We cannot agree with the applicants in the United Left that the solution follows the greatest benefit of the child. Why, though, would an elderly parent be more suitable for the care of a child than an aunt or an uncle? It is in the child’s best interests to provide him with the best possible solution, and this is not but the parents’ priorities. It follows from all this that the proposal for a law is not appropriate. The Legal and Legislative Service also warns that it does not follow the best interests of the child. He is also opposed by the Ombudsman. And, of course, in the United Left we will not support this proposal. It is sad, however, that between New Slovenia and Primac there is a political ruse on the back of children. When this topic is exhausted, it is likely that women who opt for abortion, as quite clearly indicated, will be involved, and again some other vulnerable groups whose rights of conservative right cannot be tolerated. In short, the conservative right is about self-promotion on the back of children, and they have no problem robbing the same children literally by grandparents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u135	The position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats - will be presented by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u136	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In Novi Slovenije we decided to submit a new Law on Marriage and Family Relations to Parliamentary Treatment. In doing so, we want to fill the legal void and allow the elderly parents to be at least a party to the procedure in case of the allocation of children in exceptional cases. We're talking about extreme tragic cases when both children's parents die. And most difficult of all is to explain to the child why he no longer has a real mother and a real father. Of course, the fundamental principle of our proposal is the greatest benefit of children, not of an old mother, not of another old mother, or of one old father or of another old father. The bill introduces two essential innovations into our legal order, namely the possibility of adopting a child in the event of the death of both parents, is also extended to old parents, and the other is given the opportunity, if they want to give their children the will to take care of their children in the event of death in advance. The main objectives of the proposed novel are to provide the child with such protection and care as is necessary for his or her well-being — this is Article 3 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child — taking into account that this is the first responsibility of the parents and that the State must take all appropriate legislative and administrative measures — Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child — in order to enable parents to express the will to adopt or care for their children in the event of the death of both parents. The current legal arrangements in the area of family relations with regard to the possibility of exercising parental right to grandchildren by old parents have proved insufficient. In New Slovenia, we decided to fill this legal void with such a bill. In particular, neighbouring and some other European countries have a declaration of child care in the event of the death of parents of a similar marital solution. With the bill, we opened a debate on the burning issue of the rights of children, parents and old parents. We stress that our law does not introduce automatic adoption or guardianship, but it is always judged in procedures at social work centres. The New Law on Marriage and Family Relations is a well-meaning proposal that would improve the regulation of this area for the benefit of children and, of course, their parents and old parents. It would also reduce parents ’ concern and uncertainty about who will care for their children in the event of the death of both parents. We are confident that parents will always choose those who trust them the most. In preparing the marriage, we also consulted parents, parents, and many experts who work in this area and have a lot of experience with specific cases. We are disappointed to note that the coalition does not want to accept the proposed hand and to design solutions that would be comprehensive and accepted through the broadest dialogue and social consensus. The law is good and should therefore receive the support of Members for further consideration in the National Assembly, of course we could also improve it if the Government does not already want to accept our well-intentioned proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In line with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision on Tuesday, 22. 11th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 39. At the time of the day, it is to the defence of the inter-agency report on a parliamentary investigation in connection with the factor bank, D.D., for the bank, D.D., and the bank of Slovenia. The interim report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and on the determination of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone. An integral part of the interim report is also an additional interim report with the essential findings included, which is marked by the degree of bank secrecy referred to in Article 125 ZBan-2, and will therefore be considered by the assembly in accordance with Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure at a closed meeting for the public, following the meeting of the assembly on Monday, 21. 11. I ask all the debaters not to give information in the public part of the meeting from an additional interim report which is not available to the public. We are moving on to a debate on the interim report, the key findings and the draft decision to be taken in public. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr Anjet Logar. Dr. Logar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u138	Dear President! Before us is the first phase in the work of the commission of inquiry, which is visible to the public in addition to the hearings. Allow me to go slightly to another area in the introduction. In recent times, our law enforcement authorities or tax authorities have been very active in the pursuit of, say, the grey economy. The covered dacar captures a peddler selling 1.5 euros and cuts it by 3,000 euros. This contributes in some way to the state budget. The law enforcement authorities find someone who's ripped 26 kilos too many. Or they find someone in Maribor who wanted to sell roasted bones without proper permission – tax inspectors, market inspectors and municipal officials visited him in a moment. If, in all three cases, there are about €10 tax evasions, the budget, based on the repression of the young person, is richer by about € 5,000. Now, let's either reroute or walk to the written bankers. Is the rigidity of the law enforcement authorities and others with them, i.e. with bankers, equally unforgivable, equally persistent and equally profitable in this case? Indeed, if they are the same vats for all, then it means that if we have accumulated or accumulated EUR 5 billion holes, the same method will result in a €2 000 500 billion fine in the state budget. They're chasing big fish with the same passion as small fish, aren't they? How many bank criminals have a repressive system been set up so far? I'll tell you for nothing. For nothing and for nothing! None of the convicted perpetrators of internal banking crime are based on compensation or criminal proceedings! All the cases went down. In some cases already six cases, some at the second stage and so on. Almost three years after the recapitalisation of our system, we are practically where we are not supposed to be in state law. Persecution of banking crime is a problem. These are the words of the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office of Mags. Harry Furlan at the hearing before the commission of inquiry. If we have a problem, we must probably find solutions. You now have an interim report and this report covers the determination of the responsibility of the management boards and supervisory boards of the Bank of Slovenia and the responsibility or role of the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia in this. On the basis of numerous interviews, documents and contacts with law enforcement authorities, we also propose some regulatory changes to facilitate the work of the investigating authorities. What we represent today, and I hope that on Tuesday we will also be supported as much as possible, is in particular the commitment that in the National Assembly with the persecution of internal banking crime and banking crime we will take seriously and that we will do everything in our power to ensure that those who are primarily responsible, i.e. the authorities of prosecution and the judiciary, will also do everything in their power; that is, that they will move into higher gears or, if possible, settle in with automation. At the pursuit of banking crime, the rule of law either persists or falls. If the culprits do not answer, if they are not punished, similar stories will occur indefinitely. As you can be sure that if someone took 10 million euros of credit yesterday, he didn't return it yesterday and he's not answering it today, he'll do the same tomorrow. More. He will be followed by everyone else because, as you know, he draws an example. And that. The 10 million euros he borrowed the day before yesterday is not virtual money, it's real money that went into an account and then maybe somewhere else. This was real money that he bought, bought, or bought, and we covered the bill for the taxpayers. Parliamentary investigation is a very difficult matter, I have devoted mostly my parliamentary work to this parliamentary investigation in the past year. Together we have heard 36 witnesses, and we have also used specific procedures that have not yet been used by the investigative commission. A number of information is obtained on the basis of hearings that no one else, except the members of the commission of inquiry, knew who we had heard and I assure you that a large number of directors or the chairman would be a little surprised if he found out who we were listening to. We've been interrogating for 90 hours, and there's a thousand 600 pages of magnetograms. In a quiet room where confidential documents are available, we have spent around 700 hours together with the investigative commission, if we count this to the period when this quiet room works, that is, 7 months continuously every day of the study of documents, over 50,000 pages. The Commission of Inquiry has always adopted decisions unanimously or unanimously. Representatives of SDS, SMC and SD took part in all the meetings of the Commission of Inquiry; we heard ourselves, Vice-President Krajnc and colleague Weber at all seventeen meetings of the hearings of the witnesses. For each hour of the hearing, I personally spent an hour and a half reading of classified documents in a quiet room and about three hours of additional preparation. But today this document is right here in front of us. Each word is based on documentary evidence, and we do not make flat-rate assessments anywhere if someone lied if the Governor lied, we also record that the Governor lied, we also mention specific cases, four cases for each bank where all violations are clearly indicated. Now, if you haven't learned at least the suspicions of crime in these violations, then forgive me, we live on different planets, it's so easy. The Commission of Inquiry has come to various conclusions in its work, I would present everything, but it would take 60 minutes, as requested, but after the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly I received only 15 minutes, so I will only quickly fly over the gro or the main problem that has arisen in at least these two banks. See, the banks, as one of our main findings is that they also existed with a fundamentally inadequate or inadequate system of internal controls and at the same time a very clear ownership structure. Here you have part of Probank's ownership structure. If we took a closer look, we would find that, say, the President of Probanka's administration is on just five parts of the bank's ownership. That, along with her brother and a colleague from the Supervisory Board herself, she controlled more than 50% of Probank. At the same time, exposed names speak of the fact that one and the same persons have circled around this bank all the time and have decided on important matters. And most absurdly, the lower line of ownership was created on the basis of the approval of the Governor of Banka Slovenije with the signature of the Deputy Governor of the Lord who led the licensing process, Mr Nučič, whose wife was at the same time a senior representative of Probanka, who led the business unit Ljubljana. And when the year and a half when Mr Nučič was no longer in Banka Slovenije and Banka Slovenije gave permission for the ownership expansion of this lower line, the management and lending of the bank continued through Brother Tomaž Ročnik, who had two large systems, the Hat system and the Fraktal Consulting system, where he managed banks in some way through ownership control. For these two groups, the Hat Group and the Fractal Consulting Group, Probank was exposed together for more than 55 million or, as far as percentages are concerned, almost half of the bank's capital. The Banking Act, ZBan, says that only up to 25% of individuals connected can be exposed. So she was twice as exposed as she could be. And you know what? In all of this history, the Bank of Slovenia has not noticed this and has never requested that they be led as a group of connected persons. It's a similar thing with Factor Bank. Equally: ownership over the cough companies, which no one knows who the owner is, for which, according to a thorough study, the investigative commission could not determine who the owners are, for which representatives at the hearings before the investigative commission claimed that they did not know who their owners were; and again, the same circle of names, Vera Mihatovic, you will find everywhere, ended up as the President of the Supervisory Board of the Factor Bank. And you will not believe, the group of Assets Dark Horvat, which even Banka Slovenije found to be establishing its companies so quickly and shutting down so quickly that it is impossible to determine who owns Factor bank. Your Honor, this has happened before our eyes, before the regulator's eyes, and it's not an unusual consequence that followed. Just a word to make me think a little bit more about these super people who dug a super hole. See, these are functions performed at the same time by individual members of administrations and supervisory boards. Tell me, if you're the CEO and you're doing four other positions of responsibility at the same time, you're probably a great man. If we keep going to Factor Bank. If you are at the same time a financial director of ACH and a member of the supervisory board of the Factor Bank and at the same time perform a total of 6 challenging tasks – you are probably a great person. But because of such great people who have stayed cool for a long time and even in society popular and well-groomed and in the high elite, today the bill came for taxpayers. That is why we also have this commission of inquiry, which, once again, I stress, is an anomaly, not a regular work. Regular work is the work of law enforcement agencies. Let me finish because I think I'm running out of time. Testifying before an investigative committee is not a Sunday walk, even if this testimony is wrong. Some have underestimated us in this work, so the commission of inquiry against them will also launch a criminal indictment of false testimony. On Wednesday, the members of the investigative commission unanimously decided to inform the former President of the Probanka administration, Mrs Romano Pajenk and the current director of banking supervision at Banka Slovenije, Matthew Krumberger. For all the constants that you will or will be invited to testify before our parliamentary commission of inquiry, however, good advice: tell the truth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u139	Dr. Logar, thank you personally and the other members of the committee for their work so far. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre and the Mag for it. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u140	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! A brief pause only after this complementary explanation by the President of the Commission, although I think we would need to take a little longer to take some time away from this, I can say very good, as well as impressive presentations of the links between societies and individuals, in a negative sense of course. The decision following the parliamentary inquiry was adopted last year by the National Assembly with a large majority, with a constitutional majority, even more than this week's adoption of the registration of the right to drinking water in the Constitution. 86 votes in favour and none against. In doing so, I think it is most important to highlight the legal basis for the adoption of this Decision, which is found in Article 93 of the Constitution of Slovenia and in the second sentence of this Article, that the Commission has the same powers as the judicial authorities in matters of inquiry and examination. This, of course, is because, in the past, there have been other investigative commissions in this National Assembly, as well as in our own, many doubts as to what the Commission of Inquiry is doing. But it's exactly what the constitution says. It was also based on the decision to order a parliamentary inquiry that it was determined, for the first time, and most importantly again, to amend the legislation and other decisions within the competence of the National Assembly, and for the second time, to establish and assess the actual situation of the establishment of the bank hole, of course, and to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to two suspicions. The first suspicion is that they participated in the supervision of the Slovenian banking system, in influencing decisions in the Slovenian banking system, such as in granting credits, in cashing guarantees in the lending policy and in transferring claims to the Bank's Claims Management Company and, of course, in respect of or better said non-compliance with the applicable laws and regulations, and in other suspicions that there were still, at that time, undetected consequences of such behaviours, which the Commission of Inquiry found, and that taxpayers also felt very strongly. In the context of the decision of the Commission of Inquiry, which it adopted at its first regular meeting, with a view to first focusing on the investigation of the Bank and Probank, because it was known at that time that the extraordinary administrations would expire by the end of 2016 and that there would be an exchange of vice-governors in the Bank of Slovenia, I would point out from the decision to order a parliamentary inquiry that the parliamentary inquiry committee would find out whether the Bank of Slovenia had performed the task of supervisor in general and whether it had been carried out independently, professionally, effectively and legally; whether the banks and related companies, if they had been kept in bank books, respected and implemented the applicable laws and regulations, in particular the Banking Act; what was the role and responsibility of the members of the supervisory boards and public function holders, and in doing so verify the possible acquisition of property or non-profit benefits. Of course, the reasons for the forced or controlled liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank and the purpose and economy of this measure, which we have discussed extensively in this mandate also on the Committee on Finance and on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, and, of course, the role and responsibility of the members of the governments, governors and vice-governors of the Bank of Slovenia in this regard. The findings of the commission of inquiry on the conduct of investigations requested and also obtained very extensive and varied documentation. Let me just list a few types of documentation, such as the names of the members of the supervisory boards and tasks as some of the most basic information on who has occupied which cities. We saw this earlier at a presentation by the President of the Commission. Further internal rules and instructions, records and internal audit reports, lists of bad credits, bank guarantees, valuation documents, issued by Banka Slovenije in connection with the responsibility of Banka Slovenije, minutes of meetings of the Council of Banka Slovenije, minutes of the Senior College of the Governor of Banka Slovenije as one of these cases, which has recently upset the public. On the other hand, the Bank of Slovenia’s crackdown in obtaining documentation, which initially provided 15,000 pages of material to the investigative commission, and to this day around 33 000 pages of documents, was the result of the Commission’s total acquisition of more than 70,000 pages of documents. Although Banka Slovenije acted very positively and responsibly, there was no such response in all institutions; for example, at the District Court in Ljubljana and, of course, before the New Ljubljana Bank, which refused to provide documentation and which, i.e. the District Court in Ljubljana, delayed by issuing a document seizure order until the Constitutional Court's decision, which finally made clear that the District Court must issue an order in Ljubljana, which it did. It has already been said that the Commission of Inquiry has heard 36 witnesses from both banks on which we have focused: former members and members of administrations, Presidents, Presidents of Administrations and Supervisory Boards, Directors, Head of the Internal Audit Service, as well as some known names, as you will probably recall, Governor of the current Dr. Jazbec, former Governor of Magi. Gasparija and Dr. Kranjec, Deputy Governor Sam Nučič, former Prime Minister of Mag. Mr Alenko Bratušek and the Minister of Finance as well as the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office of Mags. Harry Furlan. All that the interim report contains in the findings, as well as at the end of the summary of the essential findings both in the open and closed part of the report, reflects what the members of the Commission are and, above all, the experts involved in the review of this numerous material — for which I also thank them at this point — is based on this and confirms that the Commission has identified inadequate policies of internal and external control in the functioning of the administrations and supervisory boards of both banks, contrary to the professional care required by the management or supervision of the bank. In addition, the already mentioned flawed system of internal controls and control systems, at the start of the 2007 crisis, was an essential feature of the Slovenian response to the crisis, that we or the regulator responded too late and, of course, also the authorities in banks, in order to establish a new organisational scheme for the management of bad investments. It also found obvious infringements of procedures and found part of the responsibility for the growth of bad banking practices in Banka Slovenije because it did not act in sufficient time and due diligence. It is also based on those key findings that the Commission of Inquiry is proposing to the National Assembly – it would not read everything in five points. At this point, I only point out that the Commission of Inquiry is proposing amendments, i.e. to the National Assembly, to propose amendments and amendments to the law to the competent motioners. And here I am again at the introduction to the position where we wrote that the first and most important task of the investigative commission in the conclusion was to be determined to amend the legislation; then to propose to the Government to ensure the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime – we have also been able to read and hear about this this week, both from the Minister of Justice and the President of the Government – and to continue to instruct the investigative committee that, in particular in the interim report and in addition to the annexes, it is necessary to forward its work to the National Investigation Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office, which is in accordance with the Constitution, that the Commission has a commission in matters of inquiry and study is reasonably equal as judicial authorities, and that, as the President has already pointed out, it is necessary to carry out its work. Furthermore, the Special Prosecutor's Office proposes that the National Assembly regularly report on the progress made in the prosecution of banking crime and that qualified applicants propose the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 33(3) of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks in relation to outdated deadlines. Finally, I can say that in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre we will support the proposal for substantial conclusions and the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thanks, mag. Krajnc. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u142	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have an interim and additional interim report ahead of us, which is not public, on the investigation into Factor Bank and Probank and Banka Slovenije. We welcome them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the Commission has examined, on the basis of documents, on the basis of hearings and interviews, the possible responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia in relation to these banks and other banks and has identified the reasons for the forced liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank in particular for the use of tax money and the responsibility and role of Governors and Deputy Governors of the Bank of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the content of the interim reports on the basis of appropriate analytical methods and individual cases, in many cases, proves that the functioning of the management boards and supervisory boards of banks was responsible for the weight of the economic and financial crisis in Slovenia. Co-responsible because the relatively large financial crisis was also responsible and also responsible for the relevant external control policies, notably the Bank of Slovenia, external factors and inadequate government policies. Intermediate reports show that banks were operating with a weak internal control system, did not start managing bad claims in time, they were late for organisational measures to manage bad investments. Intermediate reports show in-depth violations of procedures and practices contrary to banking and professional prudential requirements, as well as against modern corporate standards in banking management. In its reports, the Commission describes the functioning of banks that were contrary to the Banking Act and poor banking practices. These were or should have been clear to the regulator of the Bank of Slovenia. Since Banka Slovenije has not acted in a timely and effective manner, it bears part of its responsibility for the banking crisis. The reports show that Banka Slovenije did not monitor banks with due diligence during the credit growth period or during the financial crisis, and therefore the reports show that Banka Slovenije is also responsible for part of the bank's size. At the same time, the preparation and adoption of appropriate legislation, such as bankruptcy, was delayed. It also delayed the preparation of corporate governance codes and changes in legislation to ensure the use of good banking practices and to prevent conflicts of interest in the business of banks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the proposals for conclusions drawn up by the Commission of Inquiry in order to prepare amendments to the sectoral legislation to prevent the cessation of criminal proceedings. The purpose of these legislative amendments is to put an end to these procedures as soon as possible or to begin if they have not yet begun. We support the proposal that the National Assembly of Inquiry order the Commission to forward both reports to the NPU, the Ministry of the Interior and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. In addition, we support the proposal that the Special Prosecutor's Office in the reports transmitted to the National Assembly also include a chapter on the prosecution of banking crime, and the proposal to prevent possible damages from being prevented through legislation from being prosecuted for outdated and to legally and materially ensure the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the organisation of the judiciary. However, this solution or support for this proposal does not mean that, during the period of establishment of the specialised court, work would be abandoned or less intensive in the area of bank prosecution. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the reports, with an emphasis on this closed part of the report, are prepared professionally, methodologically appropriate, analytically in-depth and substantively documented. The reports provide an appropriate basis for the Commission to continue its work and, as a result of the work of the National Assembly, to submit reports, from which we expect it to respond to the questions identified by the Commission in its work programme, focusing on the investigation of state-owned banks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will report with all the essential findings that will not be accepted as a whole and we will support the conclusions proposed by the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you! We have before us an interim report from the Commission to identify the bank hole, as we briefly call it. The awareness that, in the wake of the global crisis, our over-indebtedness is essential to take measures to ensure that the state system is not collapsing; in the fact that we, without the consent of citizens and citizens and the Bank of Slovenia, have already donated several billion of our taxpayer money for the second time, has been a shock. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is 18. 6. 2015 adopted a decision setting up this commission of inquiry and provided that each parliamentary group shall have one member each and one alternate. Members of minority groups have resigned. The work of the Commission shall be carried out under the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. The National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system and to identify the causes and responsibilities for another resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone, in order to determine why Banka Slovenije, whose task is to control the banking system, did not act when it approved so many non-returnable loans. Identify the data, evidence of how many credits have been granted, to whom and under what conditions credit banks have granted; determine whether banks have implemented an appropriate lending policy; determine whether outstanding loans are transferred to nationals and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia; determine the reasons for the forced liquidation of Probanka, d.d., and Factor Banka, d.d.; determine the role and responsibility of members of governments, governors, vice-governors from 1996 onwards to 2013, when the banking system has to be remedied for the second time; examine and compare the best practices of banks in the world during the crisis. The Commission has taken research into account the causes and responsibilities of the action very seriously, systematically and professionally. Of course, we have encountered problems at the outset, but persistence and justification have undermined the secrecy of the data, sovereignty and inviolability of the institutions involved. As a result, the vast amount of written material, mostly classified, responds to the hearing and, in the most recent cases, obtain evidence of written material through judicial intervention. In the process of living witnessing, I was fascinated by the fact that people had not been able to remember anything before recently or still in responsible jobs at the time of the bank hole. Nor are the results of their actions, connections, speeches, worlds, and abandonment of control and non-action proved by many credible documents. Some have even obtained recognition for the construction of an internal system of loyalty at the expense of eminent persons from professional circles. Many networking between people and institutions is so innovative that internal control has neither achieved power nor knowledge to act. Internal control in the banks has completely canceled. I also argue that the regulator who is watching over banks has not seen or heard anything, turned to the European banking institution's superiors, defending his integrity with inviolability, autonomy and non-substantial control. After an incredible selection of one of the stress tests at the level of the calculated deposit in the bank, I cannot avoid the fact that one of the witnesses claims that the taxpayer is an investment in banks and, if so, the immediate question is when will this investment return our millions to us, especially to those who have a pension of 300 to 400 euros. Today we are discussing the interim report of the Commission to identify the bank hole. Already, a huge professional and successful work has been done, based on concrete evidence on the hope that the investigation will lead to the end and that the results will be achieved by a just epilogue. Since I am sure that we are very close to this, I call on all of you to support our work; our Desus Group will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In considering the interim report on the parliamentary investigation of abuses in the Slovenian banking system relating to the first phase of the Factor Bank and Probank, we would like to point out in particular the following fact in the introduction, as a result of the global economic and financial crisis, a process with which the population and the state are taking property has taken place. The fact is that people and the country have less and less money on the basis of which they could, for example, elevate this property, thus leading to poverty and reducing the role of the State, which is a constitutionally social state, to try these hardships as well. This is a process that has been carried out and therefore the work of the commission of inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system is even more important than we can imagine that it is only necessary to look at how the banks operated. In fact, after 2008, this process also took place intensively in Slovenia, before which banks were allowed to borrow and, under favourable conditions abroad, to devote these funds to the economy, and the economy, to a large extent, was dedicated to its development, job creation, a large part or an important part of it also decided to draw on these funds to take over companies with so-called management acquisitions. However, where the process has taken place in a way that managers' acquisitions are paid with profits from companies, we can see that there has been a breakdown of these companies, unemployment and, of course, major social hardships as a result. However, there are also largely claims arising from poor insurance or even in the way that there were no insurance for these claims. When the global economic and financial crisis arose, of course, the bankers triggered the alarm at the moment, and all the borrowers were largely at risk at the moment. When we look at the business of banks in Slovenia, both state and private, and because we are talking today about private factor bank and Probank, we can find that there is no real difference in the business of either state-owned banks or privately owned banks. In fact, the risks taken by these private-owned banks can be traced were taken in such a way that there were actually no adequate collateral for the leased loans. Of course, the problem arises with these private banks, when these loans also become the burden of people, which we have done in Slovenia. However, it must be stressed and pointed out that both the supervisory mechanism in the banks themselves and the regulators have not done their work during this period. In individual cases, we can even talk about the deliberate abandonment of control and, in all of this, it has a supreme regulator, the Bank of Slovenia, as well as an extremely important role as well as an extremely large responsibility that this process was even possible. The problem with the rehabilitation of the bank hole in Slovenia is also because we did not react the way we did in Iceland and immediately set up a special court which dealt with everyone who participated in the banking hole process; from politics to the economy and especially the banking system. This is probably also the reason that after we realized that we have a problem in banks, the approach to recovery was once again implemented in a way that opens up a number of new questions and we can mark them as very much manipulation or speculation about how big a bank hole in Slovenia was. Indeed, the decision of the Bank of Slovenia to undergo stress tests under the assumption of an extremely negative scenario of economic growth in 2013, 2014 and 2015 shows that the economic situation was significantly better than that of the speculative assessment. Of course, the international dimension of the abuse of the global crisis also opens up to take over the property of people in Slovenia, as well as the property of people held in state banks and state-owned enterprises. By making the commitment of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund to resell the system banks in Slovenia, if we want to grant State aid to banks, they accurately define what I have defined at the outset; that the process of the global economic crisis is intended primarily to deprive countries and people of their property and thus, of course, to substantiate it at home. If we look at the assessment of the bank hole, which was, for the banking system itself, divided into the recapitalisation of banks and some other measures, we find that it was necessary to invest 3 billion and 12 million additional capital in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Nova Credit Bank Maribor, Abanko. The Bank's Claims Management Company was transferred EUR 76 million of poor claims and the write-off of subordinate financial elements amounted to EUR 441 million, totalling EUR 5 billion and EUR 129 million, which we invested in the banking system. That's a lot of money. And with the earlier miscalculation of economic growth, it was actually positive, and 5 billion were estimated to be negative. As a result, we are paying EUR 122 million interest today for the loans hired to recapitalise banks. And if I just remind myself of the negotiating process with the social partners, of how much additional resources are needed to eliminate all the anti-crisis measures that have been put in place in a way that is largely limited to people, we can get close to EUR 200 million. And a large part of this may also be attributed to the fact that this assessment of the bank hole in Slovenia is wrong. Therefore, so much greater importance has already been attached to the introduction of the Commission's point of view for the investigation of the bank hole in the National Assembly. In addition to these factors, I would also like to highlight the issue of compliance with international accounting standards. In the course of the investigations, we have found that these standards have changed and that there have been some difficulties in understanding, and I am afraid that even in the light of international accounting standards. The fact is that the starting point for the assessment of the bank hole was prepared by audit firms performing advisory work; they do not carry out audits but advise. These are not bound to comply with international accounting standards. And this is one of the questions that will certainly need to be cleared in the following part of the Commission in order to get to the real picture on this side as well, whether this was done consciously, or whether this was done in order to make this hole so high that we could possibly provide some, as it all appears, with international requirements. Of course, problems can be felt at home. That is why it is imperative to support the decisions proposed by the Commission to the National Council for the Amendment of Laws in the field of Criminal Procedure and also to provide a legal and material basis for the operation of a specialised court for the prosecution of financial and banking crime. I think that it is essential to support that this material we have prepared is also being transmitted to the National Investigation Office and other law enforcement institutions. This will allow us to take a step towards resolving this extremely serious issue as soon as possible, which strongly affects the development of science in Slovenia, the social situation, the development of health services and the social situation of many people in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u147	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. An investigation into the reasons for the recovery of the banking system covering the period 1997-2014 can be carried out in two ways. You can appoint an impartial committee of auditors and economists to be given the power to prosecute. This is how you prepare a professional basis for the investigation of political and criminal responsibility. The second way is to skip the first step, to set up a political commission led by a party that has been in control for six years not only of political power but also of large banks and parastatal funds. This is similar to the fact that the Social Democrats would set up and run an investigative committee for TES 6. Since such an approach does not produce positive results, from the outset we have advocated what is the right approach. First the system's investigation, then the parliamentary commission. Therefore, we have already proposed a decision in March 2015 that the Government prepare a specific legal basis for such an investigation. This is necessary because of the scope of the investigation and because this is where the classic justice apparatus cancels. Our proposal has also been accepted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. The coalition has promised a systematic investigation under a coalition agreement. But I'll come back to this unfulfilled promise of the coalition later. Before that, I would like to remind you that the United Left has not supported the act establishing this Commission. At that time, we warned that the scope of the investigation was absolutely too wide for any parliamentary commission with all the experts. It was therefore clear that the Commission's leadership would choose those cases that correspond to its political purpose. This is the logic of every parliamentary inquiry. This was confirmed in the previous investigation of the bank recovery, and this is also confirmed by the current interim report. This is not a report on the investigation of the reasons for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, but a description of the operation of paide capitalism in two private banks. And even in the future, the Commission will not investigate the full causes of recovery, but "separate, most representative cases", the latter was a quote. These cases, of course, will not be chosen randomly. They will be chosen to meet the purposes of the commission's leadership. What is the purpose of this, and we all know very well what is here. At last June's session, he was well described by colleague Möderndorfer, who was still in the ranks of ZaAB at the time, and I will quote him: "The only problem is that, as we watched this investigation in the previous term, it will now continue in this mandate. And I hope to predict for myself what an interim or final report will be. It will be very clear that everyone else is guilty, only the Slovenian Democratic Party or then the government of Janez Janša had nothing to do with this banking system." Factor bank and Probank are ordered for such an assignment. These were two smaller private banks, the ergo Jansev government had no direct influence on them. In addition, they were owned by people who were supposed to belong to the Kučan clan. What's more beautiful than one move to get rid of Janša's government and condemn the Kučan clan. Slowly, perhaps until the elections, people will forget what the real causes of the crisis are. They may be able to convince them that this crisis is not economic but moral; and that the problem is not capitalism, but crime. It is possible that people will forget that the vast majority of the bad loans from the first Janša government. Most voters will not read the scientific articles of Dr. Prašnikar and Mag. It is painful or, for example, the Bank of Slovenia reports on the causes of the resulting capital deficit of the country, which describes the serious errors of the first Janša government. It will soon take ten years for people to forget that companies have not only been taken over by Kučan’s directors, but also by church funds and right-wing tycoons, such as Mr Bavčar. Many will no longer remember that the shares in state-owned companies were not sold alone, but sold by the government or by the Court of State and Kad. The fact that there was no AUKN or SDH at the time will be forgotten, so the government had a direct human resources impact on the banks that granted the contested loans. They will forget that the Takeover Act, which allowed managers to place the shares of the company taken over for the takeover loan, was adopted by the Janša Coalition in 2006. With such reports, you and your voters will be waved for years to prove that the Slovenian Democratic Party had nothing to do with this and that the global capitalist crisis is the result of the crime of Kučan’s octopuses. The Socialists will not take part in this, so we also voted against such a composition of the Commission. Unfortunately, however, the coalition is involved, in particular the Modern Centre Party, which is the only party besides the United Left who is not responsible for the banking crisis or for the excessive rehabilitation. It would not have to be in solidarity with those who are responsible for leading governments in the last ten years. However, it is the Party of the Modern Centre that allows the banking crisis to be investigated by those who led the government when these bad loans were created and when the Taiwanese acquisitions took place. The modern centre party even makes this possible – it voted on the Commission's creation act, allowing the Slovenian Democratic Party to lead the investigation. Without members of the coalition, the investigation could not have been carried out as it is taking place. And once again I can quote here my colleague Möderndorfer, a new member of the type of the Modern Centre Party: "I think it was an ideal opportunity for the Modern Centre Party to take responsibility and lead this commission. She's not burdened with it, she hasn't participated in any government so far. You could at least impress the impartiality of this event, but they didn't decide. Unfortunately, this is where the Modern Center Party once again passed the exam." It's understandable that SD and Desus do this. Desus has been in all governments since 2004, and the SD has led the government when action should be taken. By the way, President Pahor once said that his government's biggest mistake was to underestimate the scale of the banking crisis. It may have been just a misjudgment, but in a normal country, this error would have meant the end of his political career; it was just a leap for a higher presidency. And not only does the Modern Centre Party allow the work of this biased commission, the Modern Centre Party has not yet fulfilled the pre-election promise to allow a systematic investigation of the bank hole and rehabilitation in 2013 and 2014. Recovery in these two years is exactly what is still true for citizens, and everything else is delayed. The only thing we can do is stop the sale of state banks and stop the privatisation. We need evidence of irregularities to punish those responsible and to abolish decisions of the European Commission requiring the rapid privatisation of banks. In July last year, the National Assembly endorsed the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest. Within sixteen months, the government and Minister Klemenčič did nothing to ensure that this law was ever adopted and that an investigation was carried out. And, of course, he's continuing his privatisation. Finally, I must define myself until the proposed conclusions. In the United Left, we will not oppose them, even though they are largely meaningless. Legislative amendments can be proposed by Members themselves, as we have proposed an authentic explanation of the register accounts. But we're not obstructing the investigation. After all, colleagues collected a lot of material on capitalism in Slovenia, dirty business of capital holders and on the rule of law that assists in all this. As for the continuation of the commission's work, once again, for the third time, I will quote my colleague Möderndorfer: "OK, go ahead and do your business as it does; but we will not participate." We won't be socialists either, because the outcome is already known. In 90 per cent, our crisis is due to the crisis of global capitalism and the crisis of the European Union. On the other hand, the first Janša government is responsible for the creation of bad loans, the second Janša government, Pahor’s government and the government of Alenka Bratušek are responsible for making these private debts public losses. In this investigation, however, these two factions of the political class place little responsibility on each other and in the end no harm will come to anyone. The client of the modern centre promised a new policy and eventually agreed to this old logic. We're not gonna be socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u149	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Mr Logar, Commissioner-in-Office of the Commission of Inquiry, dear Members and Members of Parliament! What kind of society is this, and what kind of country is this, where the culprits for the billions of bank holes exist and walk freely around the country and there is no sanction for their conduct, because the law enforcement authorities were unable or unwilling to enforce them?Oh, my God! What effect does such a situation have in Slovenian society at the age of twenty-five of Slovenian autonomy on the effect of general prevention?Oh, my God! What do those who may think at the very moment of this meeting are planning to commit new crimes in banking?Oh, my God! So far, no one has been responsible for the bank hole and it will soon be three years, which we have recapitalised banks, Slovenian banks or, rather, bank holes with the sums of tax money. And we wonder why someone would answer in the future because nothing changes. Is this a real message for the Slovenian public, for our young people?Oh, my God! Is the current way of dealing with banking crime the path we must take to the future? The answer is clear. We need a new legislative obstacle to the prosecution of banking crime. We may also need new people to prosecute banking crime. And they don't necessarily come from our country. The main thing is, they're honest, they have knowledge. We've got a lot of these. Consider the examples in Iceland. Even more so, it is our view that it is necessary to privatise state banks to prevent such large bank holes in the future. But some want to continue to have a state economy and state banking. We say that more privatisation means fewer bank holes and more privatisation means less corruption. New excuses are always sought and it is never the right time to sell state banks. Currently, the latest convenient excuse to postpone the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is brexit. According to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, I quote, "it is imperative to reorganise the timeline of the entire process." The continuation of the privatisation procedures of the New Ljubljana Bank is therefore postponed until spring. Which one? We hope it's the next one. Until recently, SDH member Anja Strojin Printpar confirmed that activities in the sale of NLB had stopped. We can only wonder what the next excuse will be for the new postponement of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, so that it can continue to be an ATM for some as a state bank. So the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank is never a good time. The recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is always a good time. However, in order to create doubts about the appropriateness of the behaviour in Probank and Factor Bank, the government took care of the fact that, despite the high risk, it decided to simplify its connections to the DUTB. Such links in the procedure do not require disclosure of a number of documents, including reports on the revision of the connection. This move by the government was increasingly imprudent and completely irresponsible. It gives us reasonable suspicion that something had to be covered up when we joined the Factor Bank and Probank. Unfortunately, many things cannot be changed by the legislators. It is necessary to respect the prohibition of retroactivity and the principle of criminal law which must apply to the accused the Penal Code, which was applicable when the offence was committed; or the Code, which is milder or more favourable to him. However, I stress that this must not serve as an excuse for the fact that nothing can be done in the area of bank crime prosecution and that we must remain at the crossroads of our hands. Courts should be specialised in order to allow the most experienced judges to deal exclusively with banking crime. It is necessary to ensure that the best tested practices from abroad are incorporated into the work of these courts. The specialized state prosecutor's office has one of the key roles in the prosecution of banking crime, and its role must therefore be supported by several state prosecutors. Within the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, there are already departments for individual areas of its operation. We don't have a department that deals exclusively with the prosecution of banking crime yet. In order to improve the effectiveness of addressing the extremely complex criminal law area of banking crime, it would certainly be welcome to establish a special section of the Special Prosecutor's Office, which would be solely responsible for banking crime. These solutions would ensure that actions within prosecution, investigation and prosecution procedures in banking crime cases are carried out by the competent persons who are best qualified for this, which would bring about an important strengthening of the judiciary and the judiciary. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are also assessed that the necessary addition to the Banking Act would make it impossible for bankers who have failed to perform functions in the administrations and supervisory boards of banks when granting non-performing claims. It is precisely the persons responsible for granting a large number of non-performing claims that have contributed to the major destabilisation of the banking system in the past. Bankers who have gone to casino banking in the past are no longer suitable for members of the boards and supervisory boards of banks in the future. According to local words, with the amendment of the Banking Act, which is intended to place only the appropriate staff in the positions of members of administrations and supervisory councils, we want to break the Slovenian Banking Lodge. All of these solutions have been incorporated by the Christian Democrats into the law enforcement package of banking crime that we have put into the legislative process. The activities of the most qualified persons within the Bank Crime Department would ensure a higher level of specific focus, improve the flow of specific skills and give the departments clear responsibility to face one of the most demanding forms of crime. Responsible judges and prosecutors could devote themselves exclusively to banking crime, thus eliminating their burden on matters from other broad areas of criminal law. Unresponsible bankers who in the past conducted casino banking should be prevented from repeating these experiments in the future. The draft decision contained in the Interim Report addresses the right questions and gives the right answers. In New Slovenia we hope that the government coalition will have enough sense to listen to and understand this content. Ambassadors and Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a decision from the Interim Report on Parliamentary Inquiry into Factor Bank, d. d., Probanko, d.d., and Banka Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u151	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u152	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In front of us is the Interim Report, the left hand side of this report is carried by the President of the Commission, Dr Logar, and the professional colleagues, so I thank him for his work here. Let this be an incentive for further work, because before us there is still the biggest stone, this is the New Ljubljana Bank. Why is this report, and why is this work so important? In order to adopt decisions that will move some procedures forward, this kind of crime will be more difficult to do. I do not agree with my colleagues from the United Left who say that everything together is a result of the financial crisis and that we have imported it from America; and is subject to such writers in the world. Because it's a financial crime that has names in banks and other institutions. Such financial criminals must be punished and exposed; not to hide behind a financial crisis. As long as it takes, it will be easier to hide finances, financial flows, securities and everything else. It's about people changing jobs, covering up their positions, and covering up their assets. The damage was caused — direct and indirect. But people feel it. What is the essence of the work and the report? The essence is to identify the responsibility of all those involved at the highest levels – the European Central Bank, the Bank of Slovenia, banks, supervisory councils, including the responsibility of investigators in all institutions and policies. If we look at financial crime, it's internal and external. We need to identify both of them, involve those who have given such credits, and those who have accepted them, and the third ones who have allowed them. And he's denied surveillance. The role of the police and the privatisation of the investigation is important. We see that some institutions are not functioning well, here I would focus on the work of joint and specialised investigative groups that are not working. These should be encouraged, and the report is also intended to find out where we can do something immediately, where we can do it later. In particular, I would point out something to identify the problem of control and the problem of what defence mechanisms are made by those involved in such crime. It is a matter of noticing that, at all levels, whether politically or in the field of investigation, there is a discreditation of persons investigating such crime. It occurs that such acts and damage are minimised. It is the fact that those who have been in certain positions are now recruited to positions that make it impossible to investigate, mislead investigators or destroy evidence. The point is that one of the sanctions is not only criminal responsibility, but a positional or career responsibility that people do not occupy positions in order to conceal such acts. And what we have found is that the biggest problem is access to data and restriction of access to data. Here I am particularly stressing the protection of those who point out mistakes, because it happens to identify who is alerting to mistakes, but not whether mistakes have occurred. It comes to the so-called black boxing thinking or thinking in the form of a black box. Some information is required whether it should be by the police or the commission of inquiry, and then we do not get this information because of bank secrecy, or whether it makes it difficult to access this data, or whether some information is given that we do not know where it comes from. We've got to get through this. And the main obstacle — the courts. We've given penalty judges quite a bit of jurisdiction, a higher position, less of a property, but less of a solution. We have repeatedly warned the Mandate-Election Commission that we are looking forward to the advancements and appointments of judges, that statistics will show that we see how many judges have actually resolved. Emphasis is placed on the courts, on transparency, on the case law, on the delaying of cases and on the non-decision at the second stage, which also allows for aging. As the meeting will take place on Monday, I will conclude here. It is appropriate to support the Commission's conclusions, but we must not expect too much, the establishment of a specialised court, yes; however, the court must start working at this very moment. Legislation exists and is implemented. We can't fall asleep, the pressure is on the criminal judges, including the prosecutors, the police, all the other authorities. And transfer to financial institutions that need to do more. They are laws, we have to enforce them, and here is the role of policy to push on those we do not enforce; and if they are not right to replace the people who run these institutions. And the exchange of data between individual institutions, which also applies to the findings of the Commission of Inquiry being exchanged and somehow cross-referenced with the information they have at the police station and at the higher role of the Court of Auditors and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u153	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the Interim Report, the key findings and on the proposal for a decision submitted by the Investigative Commission. First, the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Dr Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you. Allow me, after the opening presentations, to tell my view of the debate on this bank hole. For the repair of the bank holes, we gave taxpayers our money. I think that is why we taxpayers are also entitled to a public debate on this matter. My proposal is that if this is not a serious need for a secret matter, because we Members are aware of all that is stated in the report, which is banking secrecy, which is indisputable, which is proven on the basis of findings, internal records and so on, that we are trying to do as much as possible at this public meeting. If there is anything left to be resolved at the secret meeting, then we continue the meeting on Monday; my wish would be to do everything today at the meeting and then continue on Monday with the normal work without the closed session. Well, if that's not possible, because someone's gonna ask for a secret session, it's gonna be. Interestingly, whenever a political act occurs in the National Assembly, the establishment of an investigative commission, the reports are dealt with, something seems to turn around in this cycle. Remember, on Tuesday, there were house investigations in Probank's case on the cases that we are dealing with in this investigative committee, which we have also conducted hearings about. The Siol.net website reports that for the first time two bankers were convicted by Factor Bank in the case that we discussed at the hearings and which are also very detailed in the secret part of the report. Therefore, we need to correct our initial statement that there has been no conviction that nothing has changed. But one swallow doesn't bring spring yet. After 12 redundancies, one first-degree judge does not mean that the conviction will continue until the end. Now for the execution of colleague Kordish. That's really Venezuela's style of politics. That's right. My colleague Kordish spoke about the fact that we have a political commission here; I initially said that most of the conclusions, when Mr Kordiša was not present, we even adopted all the conclusions unanimously, except at some meetings that were more turbulent, but this is anyway the matter of the investigative commission. Finally, I think that all of us who have actively participated in the work of the Commission of Inquiry have voted in favour of this report. Mr Kordiš participated together at four meetings of the commission of inquiry at the beginning and at one meeting at the end. As for the 17 hearings, he only came to the first hearing, waited ten minutes there, and then left the hearings without question. And then he was never there again. Today, however, he is talking about how this commission of inquiry worked politically. I think that the other members of the investigative commission will also have to support me in what I am about to say is that the investigative commission has examined everything, including the witnesses, and has requested all the documentation that a member of the investigative commission has proposed. So if we have not investigated anything that Mr Kordish would like to investigate, it is because he has not made a single proposal. His only discussion I remember from the commission of inquiry was when he said at the third session: "I know that it is all Janša's fault in the time of the Janša government, and I know that you will work here in such a way that nothing will be revealed." When I told him that the work of the investigative committee was the free work of each member of the investigative commission, however, my colleague Kordiš was no longer at the meeting. With regard to the fact that it is clear that the bank hole is a consequence of external factors, it only means that colleague Kordiš did not read the reports for which he voted against. As at least four specific cases are listed at each bank, over some 10 million euros, where external guilt is excluded and only the authorities responsible for the management and supervision of banks are responsible. And if he says that we did not read the Bank of Slovenia report on the investigative commission, which speaks of the serious bank failures that occurred during the first Janša government; I can certainly say for all the other six members that he read this report. If he were the only one who had not read this report from the Bank of Slovenia, Mr Kordiš, because if he had read it, he could not have made such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u155	One thing I'm going to say on a procedural basis is that one matter will be clarified. An integral part of the Interim Report is also an Additional Interim Report, including key findings where you have banking secrecy. The closure of the meeting is not due to a procedural proposal; but if there is a minimum of time left, it is my duty to close the meeting on an official basis without a procedural proposal. Let's be clear. It doesn't matter whether someone asks for it or not; but I have to do it because this report is marked by such secrecy; and as long as we have it as an integral part of the material. Not that it will be clear that it is not up to me here whether I want it or not; I have to follow the rules of procedure. If there's time left, that's for sure. Like you said, if you spent all your time, you wouldn't have to lock it up for the public. Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u156	The President, I know this, I absolutely don't object. I was only referring to the conclusion of Mr Dobovsk, who said that, given that we still have a closed part of the session Monday, he would continue to do so. All I wanted to do was spend all the time in public work, because if we want taxpayers to hear it, we have to do it in the open. And all the things in the report can be presented in some way by not mentioning specific names or specific amounts; however, the samples are very clear unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u157	Now he has the word, Mr. Marko Ferruga. Get ready for Mrs. Ludmila Novak and Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. With regard to this investigator, it is a matter of congratulating the entire team on this; but my personal opinion is that this work should be carried out by law enforcement authorities. Clearly, the issue we're talking about is some specificity, this banking crime is called. We also know this when we say that banking crime is shared internally and externally. And I wouldn't go long and wide, because Bojan, who's an expert in this field, talked about it. It must be said, however, that unfortunately we are dealing with this post-festum and that we would probably expect everyone here between us to be involved in it by the police, the courts and the prosecutions. Hiding for some banking secrecy, hiding for some autonomy of the judiciary and the prosecution is always a matter of debate and judgment, but in these cases I think that most citizens and citizens expect this to be the case. Clearly, after all that has been written and said, there is also some so - called banking feature that saves one another, protects, defends. And it absolutely has to be done. It has already been said, control at all levels, and from banks to Banka Slovenije, has in this case completely cancelled, that is clear to everyone. It would be expected very shortly that the judiciary will once start to give some exemplar case law, because, on the one hand, the judiciary is somehow saying that there was no case law in this area and on the other hand, there was some autonomy of the judiciary; and we never come to the end. The main focus, which should be, is once again, when we talk about the functioning of banks, on the responsibility of the Management Board and the Supervisory Boards. And here I see no step forward, so the responsible places of banks and supervisory councils cannot and must never come again to those who have soiled themselves with this hand. If I quote Mr Furlan, the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, when he speaks of the effectiveness of the cooperation of banks with law enforcement authorities, he says: How this cooperation has taken place, it can be judged by how many damages have been brought against previous administrations and what has emerged from this. And speaking of which, we can see for ourselves how specific this situation is. However, despite the fact that we also have the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin and the fact that we have one set of laws that are unfortunately not implemented. Unfortunately, then, politics always gets involved in this story and then begins to blurt it out and lose that focus, which should already be basically in the banks themselves. The fact is, however, that greed and greed in our society are, unfortunately, so great that it is, in a different way and unfortunately, also with the help of politics, somehow blurred, dispersed, there is no responsibility and no one is found. At the moment of being called upon, despite the fact that this has already been done by law, it is said that the supervisory councils are materially and criminally responsible, that is not the case. Not the previous supervisory councils, not then the supervisory councils, who succeed those who, regardless of whether they are paid, are responsible for all legal acts, no one is responsible. Everyone just looks up at the sky and everyone knows what the greatest regret of all is that everyone knows that nothing will practically happen to them. And all of us, ordinary people, are angry. And here the judiciary should once take a step forward and show that it can condemn what in society cannot be considered an acceptable value. I'll finish this thought slowly. I think that the main focus is that once and for all everyone who enters the control world must be aware that they will be criminally and materially responsible. As far as we are concerned, in the last Article 33 of the ZUKSB, the duration of this prosecution has been extended four times. But before that we had nicer laws, the criminal law, which until 2008, was nicer; then there was a slightly stricter penal law 1 which entered into force from 2008 to 2012; and only now with the ZUKSB since 2012 did this increase. Unfortunately, retroactivity is not, it is regrettable; but unfortunately it is so in this law that unfortunately some will be erased. But I think there is a possibility, and this commission somehow shows and paves the way for the right path, which should be and be in force in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u159	Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor; Dr Anže Logar and Mr Jožef Horvat are to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, everyone! First of all, I would like to thank the investigative commission led by President Logar, who has done a great deal of work. We have seen that some names revolve around different functions and that in this country we do have some superbankers who have played and played bankers; this has also caused great harm to us, all citizens. How would this money be needed elsewhere, including for higher pensions, scholarships, health care, or anywhere else? I also support all the conclusions proposed by the Commission. I think it is the task of all of us Members here to ask the government and the judiciary to implement these conclusions. This is what citizens expect, and they demand that something happen here. We all know how many people are depositing because they can't repay the loan, and after an accident, they've gone into trouble, lost their jobs, for 100,000 euros of credit, or even less, they have to move out of the apartment. But to those who are guilty of missing millions, nothing happens. Not only judicial proceedings, but the return of this money or the dispossession of property that our citizens still have, this is what our citizens expect of us and this is what they require of us. Why can this happen in other countries? Why can there be about 30 bankers in Iceland? Why could the country's top representatives be closed in Croatia as well? Because they stole and cheated. That's the only way to get confidence back in our court. This is what citizens expect to be the same before the law, not that those who owe little, lose everything; but those who owe a great deal walk freely around. And there are no culprits. How come there's no culprits?Oh, my God! It is known who was on the committee, who led the banks, who led the supervisory boards. Everything is known, and there are no culprits. That's really weird. I thought this was only happening 70 years ago, but now I see that these things are repeating themselves even today. If we were to call a referendum with a question: Do all those who caused the bank hole have to answer and return the money?; I am sure that the referendum would almost 100% succeed in order for most citizens to come to such a referendum and give their voice in support of this. We are rarely as united in Parliament as we are today that the state must act to have the judiciary act. Apart from the representative of one party, we generally all agree that these decisions must be supported and implemented. I recall in 2005 when Justice Minister Dr Lovro Šturm, when the judicial backlogs had accumulated, proposed to the abolitionist for minor misdemeanours. Of course, if we are dealing with those who owe 10,000 euros or 5,000 euros, not those who owe 100,000 or more, then such a move makes sense today, if the problem is in court overcrowding. If there is a problem in law, then it is our duty and the duty of the Minister of Justice to do something. And I hope that this trip to Iceland will have a good effect on Minister Klemenčič and that he will see what we have not yet done, what is missing. I will immediately support all such laws, which will help to solve this problem more quickly, by emergency procedure, no problem. If they are not executed in the judicial branch of power, then our emergency procedures do nothing to help. The new Slovenia has already proposed some measures, including the introduction of a specialised state court and a special court department to investigate banking crime. Members of Parliament are not qualified for such investigations. The Commission has had some support experts, and I do not think it is a basic task for Members to go to the investigation. This is not our basic mission; but if nothing happens in this area, then it is our job to encourage it. That is why I really expect us to become a state of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u161	Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Prepare Mr Joseph Horvat and Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you, President. In the introduction, I might focus on just two key conclusions, or vital points, that we came to in our work. One suggests that Banka Slovenije did not carry out its tasks with due diligence during the period of expansion of credit growth and then after the global banking crisis. We have also made this very clear through the hearing and also on the basis of all the documents. In particular, for two banks, Factor Bank and Probank, for which I presented these octopuses in the introduction, this ownership, which in some ways made banking supervision significantly difficult, the Bank of Slovenia – the regulator for the case of Factor Bank between 2005 and 2009 did not carry out any credit risk reviews and only one for Probank between 2005 and 2009. And this is during the period of maximum growth, the largest credit deposit in the credit portfolio of these banks. Like the case of Factor Bank; at a time when Banka Slovenije did not control credit risk, the credit portfolio of Factor Bank increased from 240 million to 900 million, i.e. almost 700 million. For 700 million Bank of Slovenia did not even know what had come in; and in the case of Probank, from 330 million to 900 million, that is, for 600 million of these loans. And if you don't know what kind of loans fall in, you can't control them; if you don't control them, there's bad loans in there. And Governor Gaspari didn't do his job, and then Governor Kranjec didn't do his job when these portfolios were broken. That is why both governors bear an important part of their responsibility. But it's true that they have no consequences. The time to determine their negligence has passed. Here is the responsibility of the policy at the time that it did not find out in time. And with regard to these two banks, the management and supervisory councils of the Factor Bank and Probank have introduced such banking practices and to the extent that the crisis in these two banks is inevitable. No financial institution would survive a business like Probank and Factor Bank. The one who read the closed section of our report in detail knows what I'm talking about. In a way, politics has also caused these two boutique banks of Forum 21 – I will cheer Mr. Kordish, who is no longer here – to intertwine with our banking system and system banks and deposits in these two banks, so that the only solution was to pay for this drink at the expense of taxpayers; to liquidate them at the expense of taxpayers. And if politics has led us to liquidate them at our expense, then the policy will also have to take responsibility for it. Another policy will also have to make sure that things move forward and that the culprits in these two banks are accountable. And those who now have scissors and canvas in their hands for all these measures, I think it is right that, based on what I say today and what we are going to say here, and when we talk about banking crime, you will not say that it is an intervention in the independent functioning of this or that; but that it is very simply a requirement which should be met in the rule of law. We have also proposed some concrete conclusions or conclusions to amend legislation, particularly procedural legislation in the field of criminal procedure. I'm glad that there's some kind of principled agreement. It is important because most of the procedures have not yet been completed. And the rapid change in these procedural procedures will also affect all these procedures, which will come to the table of criminals and later the prosecutors and then the courts. However, the speed is also important because every day the delay due to procedural complications means one day closer to the maturity of matters. And I don't think we should afford this in the Republic of Slovenia. I would also like to mention the last decision that speaks of ambiguity regarding the limitation of time limits for compensation actions. Remember, when we recapitalised the banks, the National Assembly adopted a law on measures for the stability of banks, which in Article 33, paragraph 3, refers to four times the old time. This law was adopted by 28. 12. 2012. After this deadline, I guarantee you, very few loans have been made because the banks were already squeezing all the weights, looking for liquidity assets. And if this compensation part applies only to those loans, then the legislator has missed his purpose. Let me also point out that the media are also talking about the problems of this Article 33. I quote the last article of 14 November 2016, this law on measures for the stability of banks with four extensions of deadlines, "It is unofficial to hear in law that this law is "not taken seriously" in order to be "unconstitutional", discriminatory." Or the decision of the court, as well as the case law, shows that such a decision of the court is always the case. Judges say that more than three years have passed from business to investment, so I think it makes sense for me to dismiss the matter because of the statute of limitations. The Investigative Commission proposes that in those procedures which have been discovered on the basis of new administrations – because these procedures were not previously disclosed in any way, because they were caused by those which were then also to be discovered and, of course, not by their successors who came with extraordinary administrations – it should explain in an authentic manner that even those procedures which started are subject to a four-time period. Your President of the Government boasts in the shows that he has been provided four times; and also in this respect, given that he is a constitutional lawyer, it is likely that his words should be followed. Let me go back a little bit to this dilemma that you've highlighted all the speakers in relation to the outcome of these investigations that have been made so far. The Bank of Slovenia's Special Inspection Group, which was set up to review these bad banking practices and identify possible violations and criminal offences, presented a very interesting thesis on failure to prosecute internal banking crime. The Bank of Slovenia believes that the following three reasons can be blamed for the situation where, despite apparent violations of the laws, it is not possible to prove the fault of the administrations and supervisory councils. Let me count them. First, insufficient adjustment to the current legal situation in society. Secondly, a general legal culture that tolerates irregularities. And third time, insufficient expertise. And allow me to walk for all three possible reasons why the alleged clear culprits cannot condemn our judicial system. First of all, insufficient adjustment to the current state of law in society. Indeed, legislation is not adapted in some part, especially in this procedural part, where investigators face exceptional problems that significantly make their work more difficult and, above all, prolong the identification of guilt and intent. I hope that the National Assembly will confirm our first decision and thus allow for a rapid change. As for that evidentiary standard, and supposedly that our evidentiary standard prevents the conviction of these bankers or bankers of banking crime, it is very modern to express this publicly. Even some constitutional lawyers talk about it on some sort of round table. But he who says that, or deceives, or seeks justification, an apology or an excuse for a crime. My question, do you really think that your predecessors, our predecessors, the legislators who adopted the Penal Code and its novels, were meant not to punish themselves for the bank hole or to punish those who blamed bad banking practices. Probably not. The purpose of criminal law is not and cannot be to in some way establish a system where such circuits are possible in order to absolve offenders. The primary and exclusive purpose of criminal law is to ensure that justice is served. This means that those who have violated are adequately punished. The judiciary must follow the legislator's purpose; not to go into eloquence, but to follow the legislator's purpose. The Penal Code is to punish crimes; it is not to be forgiven. If a provision may or may not be sufficiently binding in individual cases, it does not mean that judges have an excuse to do nothing or to forgive. That's why it's court practice, and we're back there. Those paid to sanction under this law like to say that judicial practice says that they cannot be sanctioned. But pay attention; in the pursuit of internal banking crime, judicial practice is yet to emerge. How can someone today say that it is a case-law that bankers cannot be convicted; if this case-law only arises, at this moment, today, yesterday and tomorrow. At the hearing before the commission of inquiry, Mr Furlan, the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office said, quote: "Our courts require a very high standard of evidence to be applied for in an investigation." The evidentiary standard is not something that's in the criminal code. The evidentiary standard is something that has evolved in court over the decades. And what did he say next? "And actually she's not." This is the case law. And if it isn't, it's harder to establish it or the courts are so much more careful when establishing it. The courts are the ones they establish; at this point they establish it and are obviously very careful. Mr Furlan continues: "And in these cases, where the case law has not yet been drawn up, where there is yet no clear position, it is purely lifelike for judges to serve it in certain cases when they come into doubt. One of the basic principles of alleged innocence is – and profoundly pro réo; that is, in doubt to forgive and to make a decision to another. And pay attention; "It's much easier, believe me, to write dropped charges, acquittal rather than acquittal." Here we are. Therefore, the case law is still in progress. With each new judgment, for example, by Judge Letonje's judgment from the Court of Ljubljana, which I will present below, with the decision of the Labour Court in Maribor even at the second stage, the decision on Probank, the New Ljubljana Bank and so on. And if we follow up, apart from today's case I cited in the introduction, we are witnessing the emergence of exonerating jurisprudence. Forgiveness of judicial practice in the pursuit of internal banking crime. I'm sorry. Let's just follow and watch and wait for something to change. It will not be because it is changing in the direction of exculpatory jurisprudence. Let me repeat once again what Mr Furlan said is much easier to write dropped charges, a release judgment than a conviction. Just look at a concrete example of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. We all agree that the cities are inadequate, but we still have the documents. Although their preliminary investigative committees are not, we have been very persistent on this path and we have received them. We should probably thank the judge in Celje and the judge in Maribor, who followed the legislator's purpose, namely the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which has anchor in the Constitution, and ordered the seizure of documentation; while Judge Desha Cener in Ljubljana blocked the proceedings for seven months. In the end, however, a case-law was established which gives it to the Commission of Inquiry and which enables all investigative commissions to work in the future. The other Commissions of Inquiry in the National Assembly now no longer have problems obtaining documentation; they receive it as the legislator intended. And if that is the case; why should we not expect the same in the pursuit of internal banking crime? We have to. The taxpayers expect us to. Secondly, in the introduction to those three points, a general legal culture which allows for the tolerance of irregularities. Do you think the samples have changed?Oh, my God! I sincerely hope they did. On the basis of a review of the seized documentation, I can say that on the basis of Banka Slovenije–business banks, these things have changed significantly. If then, at the time of Gaspari and at the time of Kranjec, as rigorous control as it is today, this bank hole would be smaller; that is what I hope to say. Still, I can't get past the politics again. Have we learned anything or rather, those who have scissors and linen in their hands?Oh, my God! Did you learn anything? Example – appointment of the SDH President. I was shocked by that story with Mr. Jazbec, and today. I was also shocked by the next step Marko Jazbec took, namely, the appointment of three overseers: Gedrich, Ribnikar, Macuch. I was also shocked by the appointment of former senior official of the Bank of Anton Žunič in the cabinet of the President of the Government. I'm sorry, I was shocked and shocked today. I know the story, I have documents about the gentleman, and I honestly don't know what he's doing in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. If I use the words of Mr Cuffer, former Minister of Finance, before the commission of inquiry: "This shows a very high tolerance for this and a great degree of forgetfulness." Remember, there was another bank hole due to the high rate of forgetfulness. And beyond that, as Mr. Chufer says, it is surprising that these people have a second chance at all. Honestly, it's unusual and unacceptable for them to have a second chance. And in this respect, cultural change is essential. What about business banks in this regard? We, within the framework of the commission of inquiry, have asked the banks that we have recapitalised to make a very clear and simple request; and this now, in recent times. We have requested that they present to us the costs of legal services and advisory contracts they had in relation to the preparation of professional grounds for the prosecution of internal banking crime. Experiences are, I must admit, different. The bank forwarded this data, the DUTB forwarded this data. First, NKBM tried to look for bends and they said they didn't know what internal banking crime was. They have a foreign owner, we explained to them, but then they promised to intervene. What about the New Ljubljana Bank that we've been throwing the most money into? A billion and a half. Do you know what she said? In a letter marked confidentially, I violate this confidentiality in full consciousness, she wrote, quote: "We find that the contents of your request" – that is, to access data on how much costs there were for lawyers and R. U.R., d. o. o., Mr. Kos – "we cannot submit to the objectives, purpose or scope as defined in the decision to determine the investigation." So the Nova Ljubljanska Bank, in which we have given taxpayers a billion and a half billion, has set out to explain the conclusion of the Commission of Inquiry, which we have adopted here with 68 votes in favour. And they say, because, in our opinion, the requirement goes beyond the scope of the parliamentary investigation, these are the costs for lawyers and advisory services, and consequently the purpose of establishing a commission, we cannot provide you with the data in question. The president of the board of directors Blaž Brodnjak has been signed. After we put a billion and a half euros into this bank. Now, I would only point out that a similar case has already been decided by the Court in its judgment of Administrative Court II U 317/2014 in 2015, which states that it concerns certain data from advisory, copyright and other contracts for the execution of intellectual services for absolutely public data. The new Ljubljana Bank, for which we have paid a billion and a half, challenges even the judgement of the Administrative Court and does not wish to provide this data. Sorry, that's stupid. That's stupid because we're going to get this information because we have court practice. But if four banks send data, but the biggest one doesn't, it points to a business culture in one of these banks. Or do we not have a specific business compliance service in this bank led by Mr Praprotnik, a formerly major anti-corruption fighter; it is obvious that he is preparing such decisions, which in some way confuse the administration. Obviously, at least in certain cases, this culture has not yet progressed as it should. And if we go to point 3, insufficient expertise. In sanctioning banking crime, we have three levels of institutions that are first called for this. They're criminals, then prosecutors, and eventually the judiciary. In the work of the commission of inquiry, I have met several times with criminals working on individual cases. Some have checked that the commission of inquiry has received some documents, given that they were unable to obtain them, which is totally unacceptable. Or if we have for particular statements from the hearings that we have conducted and which we have provided them, what kind of documentary evidence that would come to them at their work. Medklic; even in the last house investigation, as I said before, we were working on this. Each time we were also reminded of the procedural problems that I mentioned earlier in the introduction; and I hope that the National Assembly will confirm them in the form of a decision. After one year of very active work and cooperation, I can say or I am very likely to claim that in the area of criminal investigations, matters are taking place satisfactorily, with energy, with desire and with the intention to investigate bad banking practices and that the perpetrators are also properly sanctioned. They have trained criminals and auditors, they work in relatively limited areas so that they can specialize. In this respect, I think the work is progressing as it should. We want to make it even faster so that we can deal with these things even more quickly. I hope they are also adequately supported. In any case, they should be provided with maximum assistance. And the next level is the prosecution. In these interviews, criminals have also warned me that many times they come across, for example, when they prepare a highly fragmented and evident case of crimes, but they do not convince criminals that there is no direct intent or case law. Although, as I said in the introduction, case law is only being established. Let us look at a concrete case; because I have obtained it informally, I cannot talk about specific matters for the protection of personal data, but I will draw the way of the decision in this case. It is a criminal complaint in one of the bank transactions dealt with in this report; and it is a loan granted despite the fact that the management was warned about the poor position of the borrower, and nevertheless the loan was inadequately secured. All these warnings, which the media had also previously warned about before the loan was granted, have led to the fact that the accident occurred and that the bank had to deduct this credit. But a member of the board who approved the loan will not answer criminally after the District Attorney's decision. Why? Three reasons are why he won't answer. One of these reasons says that he was not directly responsible for this business area of the bank, even though he signed the loan. The following reason is because he did not participate in the arrangements for this loan, although then he signed the loan. Thirdly, because it has taken its decision to grant credit on the basis of information it has received from other members of the board. To put it domestically: in the opinion of the criminals, therefore, you have not committed a crime if you have made a decision for a bad loan, but this does not belong to your work circle, and you have done so to challenge your colleagues from the administration. Now, I have a very layman's question. What about business personal responsibility, which some of your colleagues have already talked about? What about responsibility based on professional judgment if you were warned that it was a weak company? What about the professional prudence of the bank’s management profession set out in the Banking Act? It is precisely because of all these factors that I have now listed that the Banking Act establishes a special procedure for appointing members of bank administrations, which is significantly more complex than in other banks. It's a so-called fit and proper test. And it was precisely so that a person could not plead that he did not know that he was not in charge of this area and that he did so to appeal to his colleagues. If prosecutors regularly base their decisions, I hope not; I said I only point out one case; I hope not, but if they point out this way, then we must agree in any case with the words that their chief, Mr Harij Furlan, has said before the commission of inquiry that the problem in the prosecution of banking crime is. Let me repeat or point out that prosecutors do not bear any responsibility for the decision not to initiate a particular procedure. This is due to the State Prosecutor's Office Act (ZDT-1), which was adopted by the Pahor government at the proposal of former Minister Zalar and confirmed by the National Assembly in mid-2011. So the D.A. doesn't have any responsibility. And if I go to another prosecution case – Ultra case, funding Ultra; we also talked about this on the investigative committee. In the middle of 2009, the Parliamentary Commission for the Supervision of Public Finance sent a criminal complaint against two senior officials or members of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank regarding loans to Ultra to the Special Prosecutor’s Office. Unpaid loans amounted to EUR 1.2 million. At whose expense we probably don't have to guess. For seven years, the prosecutor needed her to drop the prosecution. For seven years, the composition of the Commission for the supervision of public finances has been replaced three times. And if you need seven years to throw away, we need to agree again with Mr Furlan that the prosecution of banking crime is a problem. If we go a little bit to the argument of prosecutor Slibarje, which this extension of credits argues like this. Despite the fact that Ultra did not deal well with financial problems, Nova Ljubljanska Banka continued to extend these loans. Prosecutor Šlibar writes: This is how the New Ljubljana Bank strategy, i.e. the loan extension strategy, has proved to be correct and successful, as Ultra’s obligation has decreased to EUR 1.2 million. Excuse me, if the bank is reimbursed for a loan that weighs EUR 4 million, only EUR 2.8 million, if such a transaction is declared correct and successful, then in Slovenia we have €5 billion of successful banking practices. I've never heard banks target their business by getting as much credit as possible. According to my laziness, the banks are lending money, lending loans to get back the whole loan and interest. Apart from obviously in Slovenia, where we are already restoring the banking system twice, banks are competing in which will get the most refunded amount as much as they borrowed. Furthermore, the prosecutor writes that Ultra has generated sufficient revenue throughout the period to pay its liabilities to the New Ljubljana Bank on interest on the loans received; but has not settled the loan; again, in my opinion, it increases the responsibility of the senior employees of the New Ljubljana Bank. So if Ultra had the money that she could get by selling and other operations to pay off the loan, but that loan didn't pay off or the bank didn't sit on that property, then the liability is even greater. Not that there are any reasonable suspicions of persecution. Once again, I say that these are exceptional and rare cases, I hope that these are exceptional and rare cases and that practice will convince us otherwise that this is simply a deviation from normal practice at the level of the prosecution. I sincerely hope that all other future procedures will convince us of this. Now let's move to level three, that's the trial level. The gathering of judicial epilogues in the field of internal banking crime after three years is, excuse me, catastrophic. Apart from today’s enlightenment, according to the report, in some cases two bankers were convicted at first stage; all other proceedings were forgivable. And in this regard, Mr. Furlan says that it is much easier to write an acquittal than a conviction. But if that's true and if that's what's going on, then I think we need to talk about it publicly. We have not paid EUR 5 billion out of our pockets in order to enable, facilitate or facilitate the writing of relief judgments; rather, to do what is their duty. That is why today I am going to elaborate on the decision of the Maya Letonja District Court in the extraordinary management of the Bank in the Mercury case for EUR 8 million that have never been returned. Although the case is not yet legally binding and the ill-advised judgments of the court are not being commented on, I will allow myself to commit this offence, and I am one today. I think that the time for political correctness in this regard has passed and that it is the task of legislators to make public, even if we do not agree on any decisions, even though this is from another branch of government. The decision; it was some credit, which the media had written about more than once, the loan was granted, and was not paid in the end. Although the credit rating service pointed out that the financial situation was poor or that the financial situation was deteriorating, the credit was granted without adequate insurance. Later, when the settlement was forcible and subsequent recovery, this amount for the Factor Bank decreased to EUR 0. As you know, we pay taxpayers. The fundamental defence of the accused in this case was that the credit was dealt with and approved in accordance with the normal procedure. The judge heard witnesses who were all directly involved in this procedure, from the guardian to his superior and the members of the administration who confirmed this loan. It is interesting that she rejected the establishment of experts in the banking and financial profession because she was supposed to identify all the decisive facts with witnesses and other evidence. If you invite those who have been directly involved in granting a bad loan to testify, you probably do not expect any dramatic disclosures, especially since – which Mr Furlan specifically warned – these people in this system are still connected. You know, fear always exists in subjects. Despite the fact that the credit rating service has pointed out that the banking situation has deteriorated, the management has confirmed this loan without adequate insurance. Judge Letonja notes that, on the basis of all confessions made by all persons interviewed, they are consistent. My question - is this proof of pure honesty or that everyone is in the same boat? Then the following finding that credit conditions and insurance were normal. However, the insurance was not appropriate. And further, that the credit payment was made in the usual way. Somebody explain to me what it means in an unusual way. But in the usual way, at Factor Bank, credit proposals were made in an unusual way, which I will also illustrate below. And that at Factor Bank, normal loans were secured only with bills and that this part was not an unusual business. Now we're on the heart of the problem. If you give credit on unusual terms and give all credits on unusual terms, then no credit is waived because this unusualness is becoming common. Because if you're wrong, you're wrong everywhere, because then, obviously, sin is smaller. And it was precisely because of this unusualness that we recapitalised this bank so that we could close it down with EUR 269 million. Furthermore, Judge Letonja notes that the parties and the witnesses who were interviewed have confessed that it was a normal form of insurance and that there was no other way at the Factor Bank for such large committees. On the basis of these findings, the Court finds that the Administration acted in accordance with the objectives, strategy and policy of the bank. You give credit, which is inadequately secured, under inadequate conditions; but if you obviously give a lot of such credit, you acted in accordance with the goals, strategy and policy of the bank. The Court did not find a derogation from the normal procedure for granting loans. This general norm or abnormality then led to a mitigating circumstance in determining that the administration was not to blame. And this also provides the basis for the new jurisprudence that is coming. And since Mercura Factor Bank continued to convert this claim into the bank's capital and subsequently reduced this value to nothing in the recovery, the courts concluded in their opinion and now tighten the ears, and the administration followed the judgment of the court with the greatest care of the good economic operator. It's a case law. If you give credit with inadequate insurance even though you have been previously warned, you give it with inadequate insurance and because you have given all the credits with inadequate insurance, then you convert this inadequate insurance into capital, which comes to nothing at the time of the forced settlement and subsequent recovery, so you lose all of the 8 million and the court decides — the administration has followed the judgment of the court with the utmost care of the good economic operator. Here again, I have to agree with Mr Furlan's words that we have a problem in the pursuit of banking crime. And the judge writes: The defendants have proved that they acted in accordance with their duties and cannot be found guilty of granting credit because they did not have real information. Let me mention, however, that the son of the President of the administration was at the same time a senior official in the Mercury administration; and the correct information on the condition of Mercury was very quickly at hand. As a result of this judgment, €180,000 for the legal services of lawyers representing defendants. Who pays for them? Us taxpayers. We have also found the testimony of those who were not directly involved in this business in the work of our commission of inquiry; and we have found that there are other issues that would be interesting to raise at these hearings. Let's say this information that credit ratings were prepared in the Factor Bank in a rather unusual way; that the individual transaction was first agreed directly at the bank's administration and only after the agreement was reached did it go into the preparation of credit ratings. In other words, the rating opinion was not the basis for the management's decision, but the rating opinion was the result of the management's decision to go on crediting. Clearly, then, in these rating opinions, it was possible to write whatever they wanted; however, it was not taken into account. Come in. Those who made credit ratings had to meet with the borrowers on several occasions, and on the basis of these data they had to draw up credit ratings that were the basis for credit decisions. The employees themselves are of the opinion that the ratings were often incorrect and that these credit ratings were written over and over again too easily because Factor Bank was not allowed to benefit from additional weaknesses because it was at the capital adequacy limit. Instructions for this were always given orally, never in writing. Why?Oh, my God! It's harder to prove, of course. Excuse me, if you go to the New Ljubljana Bank for EUR 5 or 10 000, you will pay the cost of granting a loan of around EUR 500. This is where individual committees borrowed a million euros and paid for the cost of granting credit, you will not believe it, 65 euros. Now I wonder if, on this basis, the court could once again write that it did not find a derogation from the normal procedure for granting credits or from the usual method of insurance. And once again, the usual deviation from what — from the practice at the Factor Bank or from the provisions laid down in the Banking Act?Oh, my God! It's only the Banking Act that determines these procedures. All of this is available, and all of this has also been discussed on the Commission of Inquiry. If it is the will to seek guilty persons for a bank hole on the part of criminals and prosecutors, it must be the same strong will on the part of the judiciary to sanction these perpetrators. Because if you don't, then we have a really big problem. May I have a word with you about the establishment of a specialised court, which we are proposing on an investigative committee. If we do not set up this court in the shortest time, I hope to say that the practice of judicial proceedings in the end will not be significantly different than it is today. I allow myself a little tactless honesty. There are approximately 250 judges working in the judicial system across the thumb dealing with criminal matters in all courts and at all stages. In view of what is happening in the Slovenian banking system, there are also between 200 and 250 suspicions of criminal penalties. According to the theory of large numbers, after being assigned to each judge one case at a time, in all those thousands of cases that the individual judge has. If this is the case, then this multitude of crimes will be destroyed and distributed; the burden of the remissions will be evenly shared among all judges. If after the 60th or 70th release procedure, which includes 60 to 70 judges, there is an exemption, the public will already be completely apathetic about these matters and no one will actually be able to be arrested as a tailor because they are all equally guilty. And the 170th judge who's going to convict his banker is actually going to be a black sheep because he's going to be different from the other judges. Otherwise, if you organise a specialised court where ten highly qualified specialised judges are with appropriate knowledge, education, experience, authority, courage, if you want, then the story is different. Then they must show something to the public because it is difficult for me to imagine, for example, that the President of a specialised court or department on the Internal Policy Committee would come every year to present that each of its judges already has 17 exoneration judgments. Such a chairman of such a court would not have had any credibility, and he probably would not even have hoped to appear before us in the National Assembly. As for the specialised court, let me remind you of your record in the coalition contract. There you wrote: For a more effective trial in organised forms of crime, it is also necessary to examine the possibility of setting up a specialised court, in conjunction with the existing Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. The latter is a legacy of previous internal organisational forms, which are not sufficient to achieve successful prosecutions of organisational forms of crime; therefore, if the present organisation of the judiciary presents a meaningful problem in the future, the said specialised court will have to be established. What does the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office of Furlan say about this? I quote from his statement on the investigative committee: "The main investigation of banking cases is filed with the District Court in Ljubljana, which is already most burdened with all cases. Since we do not have one specialised court where these cases could be dealt with as a matter of priority, we are destined to have the proceedings run for a longer time. The fact is that all the authorities have specialized, namely the police with the establishment of the NPU and the prosecutor's office with the establishment of the SDT; except for a court which has not established a single specialised court, but four departments. Here we are, except to express our desire to establish this court, which would most likely deal with the matter more quickly,... " Is there anyone among us who doesn't want to be dealt with more quickly? Probably not. Finally, again, I quote Mr Furlan: "I see the problem in that the courts could specialize and that only a certain number of judges would deal with certain cases. I see the only solution here." "I see the only solution here," says a man who at the same time says that we have a problem in the pursuit of banking crime. And as I said in the introduction, we Members are called upon to solve problems, and that is why we are legislators. The fact is, at the pursuit of banking crime, the appearance of a credible judiciary remains or falls. If the culprits do not answer for the creation of the biggest bank hole in Slovenia alone, we are already creating an overture for the next bank theft. The question is whether all stakeholders involved – that is, with us Members, with the government, with criminals, with prosecutors and with judges – are equally aware of this and the importance of this and whether we want to participate in this orchestration of possible future bank holes, watch where or take action. And in this respect, we have done everything we can, with the resources we have. The task of the National Assembly in this regard, in my view and in my understanding, is to send a clear signal to the other authorities that the purpose, desire and will of the National Assembly is to make a change in this regard, that we will not talk about the problem anymore, but that we will send a single signal that fundamental changes are needed. We will be able to ask or expect this with all credibility when we are united in this regard or in this opinion. This unity, however, is the decision of you, the members of this assembly, and the groups of Members. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u163	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get ready for Mrs. Eva Irgle and Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm extremely pleased with the work of this commission of inquiry. I think this is a school case of how the investigative commission should work. Not because I was a member of this commission until yesterday, but because I am a replacement member from today on; I actually want to express my appreciation here for the efforts made in my work by the President of colleague Anža Logar. I would also like to point out here and in some way thank the management of this house, which has allowed us to get external experts. Thank you, Secretary General of the National Assembly! I am confident that by the end of the term of office in this committee, we will do everything that Members can do. Of course, we ask ourselves and certainly ask our citizens the same questions as our colleague Mark Ferrug. Where are the law enforcement authorities that should primarily do this work? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not normal for our judicial system to have been investigating the biggest crimes in banking for more than three years; the epilogue is not yet. That's not normal. It's not a legal state; it's a dot. And on the other hand, as colleague Logar said in the introduction, the following things are happening. I'm going to tell you one case that actually reached into my heart. When a man comes to the office of the Member State who accuses and says that he has spent his whole life raising a farm together, he must have owed something, he got cancer, and he couldn't work on the farm, because that's where he has to work. Now his farm has come to the drum, bidding, as they say, for 12 thousand euros. With a word and a number – 12 000 euros, farm in the vicinity of Radgona. And the man got sick. These are traumas, these are tragic stories that Members meet in the field; and this is not lonely. In a way, I was satisfied at first, and later I saw that I was naive when the former President of the Anti-Corruption Commission became a justice minister. Why? Because we heard him on a similar committee in the previous term led by Marko Pogačnik. There he presented his report on the state of corruption – you can find this report on the website, I think it's March 2013 – and he said a number of things that are not recorded in this report. The Anti-Corruption Commission looked at 40 credit transactions in banks owned by the State, i.e. NLB and NKBM, on the basis of reports. All together, there were about a thousand 600 million; 1.6 billion euros. On average, 40 million after a credit transaction. And KPK found that in the Slovenian banking system, in state banks, of course, what it saw was systemic corruption. That is why I am saying that I thought it logical, and I expected very much that the President of the KPK, who saw exactly what was going on, would now, as the justice minister of the matter, put himself in the right place to say diplomatically. Very good are the records in this report, which I mention, the report on the state of corruption, and this is the heavy burden that we simply cannot remove from our backs, from the backs of all taxpayers. I absolutely agree with the Commission's conclusions on the prevention of corruption at that time when it states that bank recapitalisations constitute a method by which the socialisation of the costs of private encroachment has been carried out in banks which are in a broader sense owned by the people of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, the Commission considers that the expectation that the economic situation in the country could be improved without prior regulation of the situation in the Slovenian banking system is unfounded. A few hours ago, we talked about how to increase the revenue of the state budget. There's no way. There's no way we're gonna close some bankers. No way. Until this rakra is repaired, there will be no progress in the Slovenian economy and we will actually be spinning in a vicious circle. Furthermore, the Commission points out that regulation of the situation in the Slovenian banking sector is crucial if we want to create conditions for sustainable economic growth, maintain a high level of prosperity for the people of the Republic of Slovenia – well, I am not sure that it is a high level – to strengthen the level of confidence in the supervisory institutions of the country or the state apparatus and to enhance satisfaction with democracy as a desirable way of ruling. That is to say, until we unlock, remove banking crime, the crime banks, which Dr. Dobovšek made clear, and we all agree that banking crime has names and surnames. As long as we're talking in general, it won't be a big deal. And we listened to the open work in the previous term, so I'm not afraid to say the name or last name of Nučič. This gentleman, former Deputy Governor of Banka Slovenije, said on a similar committee in the previous term that we are going on the wrong side of things, and he taught us what diletants we are, that we are losers and that we should do something else. Yes, those are his words, at least roughly sum them up, I don't quote him, there are magnetograms, I suggest you look for, read, citizens and citizens, because these things are open; and you will see how they talk to parliamentarians, representatives of the people, people from the bank box. Yes, there is a banking box in our country, so we have also proposed in Novi Slovenija a novel of the Banking Act, including our commission proposing urgent measures, urgent legislative changes. In the proposed amendment to the Banking Act, we wanted nothing more than to break the Banking Lodge. It cannot be one who has been involved and has decided on non-performing claims, once again in a position, in the administration of any bank or in the supervisory board of any bank. In the then President of the KPK, I now have absolutely no confidence, especially because his report threw our government away because we – New Slovenia was with us. Later, the court said that this report had no weight and that we were mistakenly suspended. This gentleman also said – because the boys in Tržaška on vampires agree on who will get any credit, how much and under what conditions. He probably didn't have any idea who these guys are, their names and names are. When we talk about banking crime when it comes to these credit transactions, it is perfectly normal to look at both sides. The party that gave the loan, and also the party that received the loan. And I only guarantee that we will continue to work on this committee, here in particular from our parliamentary group is engaged by fellow Vrtovac, and I believe that we will build more confidence from our citizens to parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u165	Ms Eva Irgle has the floor; they should prepare themselves for the mag. Dušan Verbich and Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, I expected that on such an important topic that concerns every citizen, because we have already fixed the banking system twice, and every citizen has spent about EUR 2 000 500 to save the banks, and this hall is much more full; in particular, I thought that the government would be with us. If not fully, as was the case with the entry of water into the Constitution, at least the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance. Today we are talking about a report prepared by the Commission of Inquiry concerning the Bank and Probank, which is two tycoon banks near Forum 21, which we have recapitalised by taxpayers so that it can then go to liquidation, amounting to EUR 269 million. We have a multibillion-dollar bank hole created by the granting of bad loans or credits, most of which have been placed in beautiful sights, seems friendly, as well as on a political line, which we can read today in an investigative commission report. Bank administrations, respected colleagues and colleagues, have acted unlawfully, illegally, irresponsiblely in their operations. As we can see, the supervisory authorities or overseers, who should keep an eye on these irregularities and alert to illegal practices, evidently looked away and gazed at both eyes. We can clearly read in the report that an extremely weak system of internal controls has been established. Of course, we can also see that this also makes supervisors responsible for banking crime, which today has consequences for all citizens, as this is why we have failed businesses. We have people living in great social distress because of unemployment, and all of us have lost our living standards because of the problem of banking crime and bank holes. So far, as has been said, no one has ever been in charge of banking crime; except until today, when colleague Logar told me one single case that happened today. I'm not going to speculate why, or whether it also coincides with the fact that we're talking about the investigative commission's report today. Police have so far filed criminal charges for a total of around €800 million. So the police are doing their job somehow. We have a problem somewhere else. We have a problem in the justice system. Stop by the prosecutor's office and then stop by the judge's office, which, as a proponent, showed nicely and plastically, in the introduction at all, Mr Anže Logar. I can tell you that it's this investigative commission that keeps things on the surface so you don't sweep them under the rug. I hope with a considerable percentage to ensure that today we would not have found that there was one case where someone was convicted of banking crime, if this investigative commission did not do such a good job; and because it kept this darkness on the surface all the time, that those responsible for doing it were at least a little confused. Otherwise, I'm pretty sure there probably wouldn't be a conviction today. I have to say that I listened very carefully, at least some of the hearings, to this investigative committee; and I can say that these top bankers who were interviewed as witnesses there have been very keenly informed and virtually nothing has been remembered. Amnesia on this commission of inquiry – similar to amnesia, which I myself conducted in one of the previous mandates, I am talking about the Patria Investigator – and the amnesia of these people was partial and sometimes perfect. These people have forgotten how many shares they have, but here we are not talking about one share or five shares, but we are talking about thousands of shares; they suddenly didn't know they had them. They did not know why they had signed certain contracts, even though their signatures were on those contracts. They didn't remember any meetings about these bad loans, disputed loans, losing their memory of purely basic things, when some couldn't even remember how many businesses run their daughters and sons. To such bank experts, all of us citizens trust our savings and ask them for advice. Now let me go specifically to the report itself and to some of the findings relating to the Factor Bank and Probank. Ms Nina Zidar Klemenčič led or prepared criminal and indemnity actions against the former administration at the Factor Bank. You probably know who this person is. The Klemenčič family then knew this well on the family budget, but in this regard let me note that there is nothing wrong; everyone who does his job must be paid for it. There's no doubt here. But we need to know that we had to and were forced to invest, as I said before, in the liquidation of the Thakun Bank of Factor Bank and also of Probank. Today, we see that Mrs Nina Zidar Klemenčič has practically lost all claims. All except today we can see, one on its own, this is the banker Dusan Valenčič and banker Boris Pesjak, who were also heard on the investigative committee; and already on the basis of this investigative commission, this was a completely clear case. Now there are two options, whether this law firm, if I say so, did not perform the task for which it was paid, because the state or the citizens and citizens were interested in getting these cases; or whether something was very wrong with the justice system. This has already been accurately broken down by my colleague Logar. But what's the problem now? These solutions of the justice system are most touching on the husband of Nina Zidar Klemenčič, Minister of Justice Goran Klemenčič. The report, too, which we have before us today, notes that the problem of prosecution of crime is precisely in the judicial system. Dear Minister Klemenčič is now a minister for two years, and the problem of banking crime has only begun to be dealt with when his wife started losing one case after another; today, thank God, she managed to get the first one. But only now did Mr. Minister go to Iceland for information on how to prosecute banking crime. You know that a group of 84 people in Iceland under the leadership of Mrs. Eve Joly was very quick to figure out and figure out what 2 plus 2 is. I think that today 47 people are going through a prison sentence, which is the result of real dealing with banking crime. Since Mr Klemenčič, as President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, although he was to investigate a bank hole and banking crime, found virtually nothing, except that at the end, I do not know whether, with his assistance or otherwise, his deputy received a job at the New Bank of Ljubljana. Having confirmed the opinion of Ms Deša Cener in the dispute which the investigating commission had with her alone, he confirmed to her in this case, although the Supreme Court then decided that the Nova Ljubljanska Bank must immediately forward the entire documentation to the Commission of Inquiry, then I seriously wonder whether these ministers are determined to be honest after seeking out those responsible for banking crime and the bank hole; whether this is really just a public demonstration. Once again, the judicial system has failed to carry out its own homework despite one case. It has not been completed and is therefore also responsible for the Minister of Justice. In addition to this case today we had another case, this is the case of Dimic, where, as far as I know, all bankers were very quickly forgiven. Now, let's look at the last investigation that was mentioned today, and it happened three days ago. It seems to me that there are no coincidences in this country when it comes to politics or when it comes to such crime. A few days ago, there was an investigation into Probank, which, interestingly, detected violations of only EUR 17 million in just four companies. In the report that we are considering today, we see that such cases in the Factor Bank and Probank are significantly more. Those who have read the report, and if you have listened to the President of the Commission of Inquiry today, you can see on specific occasions what violations have been caused by the management of these two banks. If such and similar violations do not occur, if you can even be forgiven for such violations, then personally I will not be surprised that a new bank hole will take place in a short time or at some point. Let me just say at the end when I started my story with Mrs Nina Zidar Klemenčič. I did not say this earlier, in this documentation, which we have before us and is part of the Interim Report of the Investigation Commission, it is clear that Nina Zidar Klemenčič's law firm has earned for losing all the lawsuits, except for one, almost one million euros and 887 thousand 791.28 euros; although, as it is said, in these two banks or in the Factor Bank, we gave our own money to all citizens and citizens. In the past, we already had an investigative commission dealing with a similar topic and came to some important conclusions, even though Banka Slovenije did not want to give her documentation at the time. But this time an investigative commission, which my colleagues have also said today, is really doing a great job, I can say that it is even more concrete within the report and is, above all, very ambitious in its work. As Mr Logar has said, he will also press charges against those who have falsely testified before the commission of inquiry. I want the Commission to continue to work as responsibly as it has done so far to keep these topics deeply anchored in society, because they are of exceptional and essential importance, and to make it even more successful in its work or to carry out its work equally successfully below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u167	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you are here! I would also welcome those Members and Members who are not present; especially for the reason that I am joining the sentence, the thoughts of my predecessors who spoke – given that this is a five billion-dollar hole, there is also a relationship, that is 5 billion. This is not a few million, as it was a few days ago, and when we also had different views and views. I wanted to say that there are a lot of words or words in this National Assembly, or in their own words, they have a lot in their mouths to say about social care and the like. But when we talk here about 5 billion being invested in this system because the financial system in the country is working, the reality is where we are now. I must admit that I had in mind to discuss what is also the agenda item, namely the parliamentary investigation into Factor Bank, Probank and Banka Slovenije. If I am a bit critical, I have also received a signal from some of the debaters who are no longer here that this is already a bit of a preparation in the middle of a meeting of the National Assembly. There are a number of things that I could start my debate on, and I must admit the following. For the introduction, I have no problem alone when we talk or continue to talk about debt-supply relations. In this case, we are discussing credit relations between entities that are natural and legal persons. When he enters as one of these parties, however, I believe that there is still some duty on the part of us as representatives of the legislative branch of government when it comes to tax money. Because much has also been said by the distinguished President of the Parliamentary Commission, whom I sincerely congratulate on his excellent work on this occasion. However, it is also due to individual members or all members, except one that I would not have named, since it was a very good explanation. However, we all know that the carrier of such requirements, close to 400 pages, and the type of hearings and difficulties in the process of obtaining, is simply the President. Therefore, once again, I hope that you will continue your long-term mandate, including all state-owned banks that have received recapitalisation. I just wanted to say one more thing at the beginning. Probank, Factor Bank, there were a lot of speeches, court proceedings, recapitalisation and the like. And to begin with, I must admit something that I cannot possibly understand that in 2013 the decision of the then government, which is in fact now our Member, was literally maintained by private banks. That's why I initially said that I don't have any problem with the debt-private relationship, because the component is, if you don't get the money back, whether you're going to fail or if you're responsible in any way, you're going to be freed, persecuted and so on. In relation to taxpayers, however, there is another dimension. And I think this is crucial in the debate itself, and I will certainly touch on this further. It's crucial to me. Why it was necessary in 2013 or 2014 or at the turn of the legal entity for which, according to the analysis and all possible studies at the time, the reference to politics, the reference to the stability of the financial system, had several medals. Why am I stressing this? The general information is as follows: I think we also spoke on a committee. Probanka and Factor Banka, I speak from the document of Banka Slovenije, which is public, but not only now, for a long time. Banks were above average exposed to the country. They owed EUR 366 million to the country, representing 9.1%, taking into account the overall banking system. At the end of July 2013, the State's share of the sector's deposits in the balance sheet amounted to 17.3% and in Probank to 21.3%, while the average share of the banking system was 9.1%. In simple words, deposits and such instruments are financial. And who invested in these banks? We can only say that at the top of the pyramid there is politics and it depends on officials, whether it is in connection with the Ministry of Finance or in the context, as has been seen below, perhaps other associations. However, a system of state money operated by the Ministry of Finance. At the top of this pyramid, before the decision is made, there is simply one who leads the executive branch of power. And that is why my fundamental question, which is simply not the answer, is why it came. We can only talk here or think about each other in our own way. As a result, the fact that we are now engaged and that so much money has been invested is a logical consequence. And here I must confess to my esteemed colleague, Eva Irgle, as far as lawyers are concerned. I don't want to be any advocate. That's what I see in my lawyer's office. The lawyer himself doesn't guarantee success. All lawyers in Slovenia and around the world are of the view that they want to have a country as their client. Do not guarantee success, payment guaranteed. It's a simple business logic that's purely legitimate. To get back to my discussion. Today there was also some talk about Iceland. I must admit that I am also critical of these union trips to Iceland by the prosecution, the government, the judiciary and so on. And after three years. We all know that a number of banks in Iceland are already behind bars, which is also right, perfectly logical. It surprises me, however, that very little has been said in this national assembly and in the public as well, why Iceland could have already done so. Simply because the approach of saving state banks was significantly different. The fact is, Iceland has bankrupted all state banks. I am sure that many of the present know that even today the inhabitants of Iceland receive some symbolic rents from the then bankruptcy activity. This is an approach, but I agree that after the battle it is possible to be a general. However, another important element with regard to Iceland is that the country has already been regulated in its legislation that a derogation from banking practice, which means a certain degree of abuse, is also a criminal offence. And now after three years, we talk and somehow also train professionally and talk about how we will train certain institutions, including the court. We have to admit something very close to us, we forget that Hypo banka with its branch in Slovenia has also reacted very closely and also carried out procedures that in some way resulted from those who misused the trust of corporate governance. So much for the intro. Now, however, I would like to touch on what is today the agenda. I am very much in favour of this political parliamentary power to disclose to the public all those matters that go to the detriment of taxpayers, and in particular to such enormous amounts. And I expect that now they will really intensify, including with the help of this commission of inquiry, significantly faster all procedures, including the achievement of some epilogue in individuals. All those accompanying the work of this commission of inquiry, which is linked to the Probank and Factor Bank, were able to see and hear in these hearings that the business related to credit and liquidity was far below the standard required and also legal in the Republic of Slovenia – the principle of a prudent economy, which we know for those who run the banking sector is the highest standard, higher than the principle of a good host. But what I think is also common to all of us is that it is worrying that all the responsible managers of both banks, which were key carriers in a certain direction, are simply forgetful or referred to the President and members of the Commission. What is the next issue in these procedures is certainly that Banka Slovenije is as the independent and highest institution of supervision of the financial system, which is responsible for the stability and operation of banks in the Republic of Slovenia. In the hearing of the Governor at the time, it was very clear and also in the magnetogram and also in these minutes it was very clear that he was aware that his part of the supervision of banks did not work as it should. Even if his institution for the supervision of the banking system, according to the hierarchy of the lower official in Banka Slovenije, he simply did not replace it. These are things that show in some direction that something really wasn't what we all expected. Not to speak at all about the jurisdiction or duty of the Governor of Banka Slovenije in accordance with the then Banking Act 1 (ZBan-1). And the third segment, which must also be re-emphasized in these two cases. In an analysis of the situation of the past operations of both banks, Probanks and Factor Bank said, prior to the introduction of this so-called miracle controlled liquidation, because I think that this institution needs to be highlighted in many cases, audit houses, which were also involved in the review of the operation of NLB and NKBM, were involved before its recapitalisation. And in this context, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, if we listened very carefully, also made a very clear indication. And we can't help but feel strongly challenged by these audit companies. And if I finish this piece, all the decision-makers in these two banks had a common denominator in some direction, review or hearing about them. Why were these two banks doing bad business? First, a reference to a financial crisis. Interesting. Secondly, as far as I can see, the reference to the media is that they are guilty of more or less being both houses in this financial state. And what I've already mentioned, and it's really worrying, is the loss of memory. And I'm only finishing this piece with one piece, which is top managers of private banks. Personally, I would like to have such top managers in a private bank, but I do not agree with the government's decision; then these banks, with such excellent management, will become the burden of taxpayers. Why are MPs, the National Assembly, even dealing with these two banks? And I'm really asking where this epilogue is when we can talk not about materialism but about political responsibility. Now or for several months we have been talking about various forms of recruitment, I have a number of concerns, and I am also giving some comments. I'm not getting into what's going on here. But the fact is, this kind of decision is what we have today. If I can touch or say in concrete terms right now, according to public data, the recapitalisation for both banks was EUR 445 million and over one billion guarantees. And all I'm talking about is where the deposits were loaded. And under normal circumstances, the owner is responsible. That is why I must admit that I have so many times pointed out this very magical year in 2013, because I would not be dealing with both banks at all. The market makes its own decision whether to go bankrupt; would it be otherwise, as we know in the banking system, if banks are not doing well, the interest of other competing banks to take over a competitive bank at a relatively favourable price. Probanka and Factor Banka are known to have around 5% of the market share of the balance sheet in the Republic of Slovenia. I am sure that there has certainly been support because they knew that no one was interested in buying or taking over a bank with which they had significantly more obligations than the rights arising from dividends or current transactions. And I would very much like to see that in a certain direction we would also get this answer. On this point, however, I am also referring to the so-called unbelievably controlled liquidation. As Banka Slovenije is included in the item today, I have been asking for more than half a year whether I can get an answer to why the controlled liquidation is taking place; because this institution is not in the Slovenian legal order. We know the liquidation, we know the bankruptcy. If it is liquidation, we know that all such procedures are tied up and carried out in such a way that in the end all are paid — the creditor, the debtor, the costs, the manager. And in the end, this process ends with a positive zero. Why is she being controlled? I think that here those founders or troika, I say – although there will be no mistake in speaking so sung about saving Slovenia's financial stability that even with the help of the investigative commission, the answer may be given not so much about me, but especially to taxpayers. This is where we talk about billions. Why am I exposing controlled liquidation? It is quite simple, a series of questions; especially because of this, for it is a conclusion. The whole implementation process, which we have received in a certain direction, is also being monitored through the Public Finance Supervisory Commission to bring this matter to an end at the DUTB. But this is another story, and I believe that this content will be discussed in the middle of next week. If I come back, it's a controlled liquidation. I am increasingly convinced that the process of controlled liquidation is being carried out on the grounds that the State officials of the Republic of Slovenia, who have invested in such or other money in the past years, are being protected; in the first place, I have mentioned the high or over-average amounts in this business bank, such as deposits or guarantees of countries. I'm asking, where is this responsibility? It is clear that the central bank is the institution with the most information on the liquidity of any financial institution daily. And if it wasn't detected at that time, then it's probably the responsibility of those who take decisive or such procedures to decide. Obviously, such decisions were primarily following a preliminary assessment that all those who were either owners or creditors would be paid in one way or another – and I can conclude here – at the expense of the taxpayers. Therefore, the honourable President of the Parliamentary Commission and the members of the Committee, I must admit that I really want these matters to be intensified. I am also pleased that these complications through the judiciary are slowly moving in the direction that you will not have too much complication; on the other hand, that such matters simply should not happen again. It is true that we are ahead of the reality that the state should withdraw, at least in the majority case, except for NLB, from property, because then this is also the reason that any bad business does not go on the shoulders of taxpayers; but it is likely to be a while before then. I must also admit on this occasion, when the Committee on Finance and also the Commission on Public Finance spoke about the bank hole. And with the honourable Member, which I mentioned earlier, I also recognized myself in the record, which is an integral part here, when I read it similarly, just as a man would say when he spoke today about five billion. However, you also have here on the record from her side, according to honourable Ambassador Alenka Bratušek, that as far as bad claims are concerned, they were already estimated at about 10 billion. However, because of the situation at the time, it is likely that no one had the hope to talk about it in any way but to act. This is said to be something wrong and rolling, whatever government comes along, facing it, which is an enormously big problem. Let me conclude here, I think there will be plenty of opportunities to discuss this content. I really wish you a lot of success! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u170	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Slovenia is one of the transition countries that has already rehabilitated the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. The last recovery cost taxpayers more than €5 billion. Today we have an interim report from the Commission for two banks – Factor Bank and Probanka. Here's the fact that these two banks were two smaller banks, two smaller private banks that were saved at the expense of taxpayers. That these two banks were saved at the expense of taxpayers is, of course, the responsibility of the government of Alenka Bratušek and the governor of Boštjan Jazbec. Whether this method of recovery was appropriate or not, perhaps more further. At some point in time, however, regarding the Interim Report. What does this Interim Report reveal that this Interim Report does not reveal? I'm sure it's an individual's judgment here, but we can't get past some facts. I am also personally convinced that Banka Slovenije has far the greatest responsibility here at Factor Bank and Probanka, because the fact is that this is about regulators. When we look at this report prepared by the Commission, we may be shocked by some of the findings. From 2005 to 2009, not a single inspection of the credit portfolio was carried out by the regulator at Factor Bank and one was carried out at Probank. I think it's a matter that then tells why the situation was the way it was, and why we had the taxpayers fix these two banks. It's hard to say that a five billion-dollar bank hole is just the product of crime. However, I cannot possibly buy the fact that a five billion-dollar hole is simply a result of the financial crisis. I am sure that something needs to be done here and that those who have cooked this bank hole will also take over their share of responsibility; for in the event that this does not happen, then we can probably expect that in a relatively short time we can expect another third rehabilitation of the banking system, again at the expense of taxpayers. What are the reasons? For example, the reasons can be found in this report. This report is prepared very correctly with some very specific cases. I am sure that in Parliament it is not us who will decide whether this case is the product of a crime or not. For this we have bodies in Slovenia that need to decide. However, I am convinced that we Members and Members are here to prepare such legislation in the future, which will prevent the cases described here. However, I believe that the Bank of Slovenia Act is well written and that it makes clear provisions on the tasks of the Bank of Slovenia. Here we have seen that the Bank of Slovenia has fallen in all areas, that it has not exercised the control that it should have exercised as a regulator. That there was no inspection of one bank's credit portfolio between 2005 and 2009, that was the biggest shock I could read in here. And even after they found out what kind of trouble the bank was in, they didn't make a decision. Since 2010, they have been working on what they will do to these two banks. I am sure that if Banka Slovenije had taken the appropriate measures that the Banking Act also laid down, this would have meant an extraordinary administration, a withdrawal of supervisors, the matter would have been different. But no! They didn't take a single step this way. More; see the 2012 annual reports. In both annual reports for both banks, the auditor states in his opinion that there is a high risk that these two banks will not be able to operate further. That there is a high risk — no one has done anything. Whether Banka Slovenije has also informed the users of the services of Factor Bank and Probank that there is a risk of their operations. Remember, in 2012 and 2013, these two billing banks invited depositors with significantly higher deposit rates than the other banks; but the regulator did nothing. Foreignly, in other matters, national banks warn – respected savers, need to be careful, interest rates are too high, something is wrong here. The Bank of Slovenia did not do this. It's interesting to look at the guarantees. The state has made more than one billion guarantees for these two banks. More than a billion guarantees. If we look at the deposit structure in these two banks, it's over 400 million. And if we look at the market share of these two banks and the deposits that were given by the State, in these two banks the country with its connected persons, such as the municipalities and all of them, had more than 2,5 times the market share. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have to look for the political responsibility of who gave the state guarantees and who allowed deposits to be deposited in these two banks. It would be interesting to have a time cut here, how and when these deposits went to these two banks. I am also of the opinion that the Banking Act should be amended. This legislation is particularly interesting in one aspect. If we look at how the law is bound, we find that all violations of the Banking Act are punishable as a violation. Just like a misdemeanor. And if you look at German law, the Banking Act makes it clear that a violation of the banking law also constitutes a crime. In Slovenia, however, the Banking Act is written entirely as an offence. Above all, political responsibility must be found here. Here Parliament is responsible and we are to make such legislation that will prevent matters from happening again. However, I regret to see that the rehabilitation of the banking system in about 20 days will take three years, but you have done nothing. There was a lot of talk – we'll make a special court, we'll go along with Iceland. Nothing's done. My concern is that every now and then we lose. And now to establish this, to establish another, I fear that the matter will go in this direction, that the time component here will outrun all obsolete hands and that no one will finally answer. I'd like to point out the case. In 2000, the bankruptcy of the Commercial Bank of Triglav, d. d., is 16 years old. We still have in the company register the following: Commercial Bank Triglav, d.d., in bankruptcy, which means that bankruptcy is still not completed after sixteen years. And I think it's going to be similar about this case. I think a big dark shadow is throwing at this self-controlled liquidation, and I'm going to point out a few things. The decision to have a controlled liquidation; at that point, I said that personally it was better than bankruptcy. Why? The fact is, at the time, the banking system in Slovenia was in disarray. All banks were at the capital adequacy limit, or many were not already eligible for capital. If a bankruptcy were to take place, it could be a domino effect. However, this so-called controlled liquidation was likely followed by events that were not clear to me. I would only point out the appointment of the extraordinary boards of the Factor Bank and Probank. The President of the Mercury Supervisory Board is appointed as a member of the extraordinary management of the Factor Bank. The President of the Mercury Supervisory Board, who was appointed as a member of the Extraordinary Management Board of the Bank, appointed the son of the President of the Board of Directors of the Bank to Mercury. Merkur was one of the most exposed companies in the Bank's portfolio. That's what Boštian Jazbec called it. A member of Probanke's extraordinary administration became an inspector and chief supervisor for supervision in Banka Slovenije. Earlier, however, we had found that there was not a single inspection at the Factor Bank between 2005 and 2009 and there was no supervision in Probank. And this one for the prize then becomes a member of Probank's extraordinary administration. And here I'm starting to wonder why it was done, whether someone wanted things to hide. And these links in Slovenia are dangerous. This so-called controlled liquidation; primarily by Banka Slovenije at the time it was said: We ensure that all creditors will be paid, we ensure that all deposits in this bank will not be called off prematurely. And look at it a fraction, the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already decided to join the Factor Bank and Probank to the DUMB during the new coalition. And because of this connection, we will then read in the newspapers that an additional 50 million euro recapitalisation will be required. And that casts a dark shadow on the so-called controlled liquidation. And I understand easily the liquidation under all company laws – the liquidation is successful when all creditors are paid. However, if the winding-up manager finds at any time that there is not enough money to pay the claims, he must invoke bankruptcy. However, there will be no bankruptcy; the government of Mira Cerar, the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije have decided – this will be put on the DUTB and 50 million will be paid by taxpayers. This case needs to get to the bottom. And these are the dark shadows on this matter. I am convinced that the story must be continued that the Commission is continuing its work, but above all political responsibility must be established here. Because this was about two private banks and also tax money. And I'm sure the biggest responsibility here is the regulator, that's the Bank of Slovenia. The findings of the Commission of Inquiry, on the basis of hearings and documentary documentation, clearly show that the work was not carried out in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Act and in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Act. I wish the Commission to continue its work successfully in the future as well, and that all these cases, which have been irregular, are in fact also subject to sanctions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u171	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Get Dr. Bojan Dobovšek and Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much. At first, I'll tell myself that I'm disappointed that there's as many of us in the hall as there is of us. Maybe there'd be more of us if we didn't deal with this point on Friday night, but sometime before. But anyway, that's how you coalition MPs set the agenda. Most worrying, however, is the absence of some entire parliamentary groups. I understand that we share our work in the Group of Members, but some are simply not. Yes, it's 5 billion, and it's right that all 90 Members of Parliament would be interested, not just 15, 16, as we are now in the Chamber. The report before us is extensive, very concrete and, in my opinion, very well prepared. Those who wanted an insight into what was going on in these two banks can clearly get it from this report. I wish that the bad practices of the past do not stop, they do stop; but, as already stated by the Commission President Mr Logar – I think that Mr Logar – that what happened at the New Ljubljana Bank some year ago is far from breaking bad practices. Supervisors who had been there for many years and were part of this bad practice wanted to return to the New Ljubljana Bank. There's nothing more than an appeal from this bench to change things, you can't. Because now half the mandate is behind us, and I am concerned that the other four banks, including the largest among them, will run out of time for the commission. Mr Logar, it may be possible to move the sleeves a little further, but to speed up the work, otherwise most of the work of this Commission will remain unworked. However, I am joining all those who have said that the lion's share of this work has been carried out by the President of the Commission. I really want you to do your job by the end of your term of office so that the law enforcement authorities can also do their work more effectively on the basis of your findings. I am aware and I believe that we are all aware that the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members are not who will determine who is to blame and who is not to blame. But with our work, we can help law enforcement. And perhaps even actions from a few days ago connected to one of these two banks have somehow resulted from what they read, obtained from the records or perhaps even from the reports of this Commission. Once again, I would like you to carry out by the end of your term of office the task you have been given so that the largest parts of this bank hole will not remain unexplored due to the time-frame.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, your word. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Janko Weber should be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who are still following this session. In view of the debate, I would like to add a few more points. We had our initial problems on the committee. With the assistance of the Secretary-General and with the assistance of this National Assembly, we have received professional assistance and, with hard work and insistence, also access to documents, which has happened for the first time in this composition. That makes it possible. We have a lot of work to do. But the point is to give a sign that there will no longer be a security network for bankers in this composition; because so far these security networks have spread, bankers have been caught, picked up and still remain in office. The point is that there is a sign that such practice should be discontinued. Iceland, which has been mentioned many times, I checked in Cobiss myself, and in 2011 I was at a conference in Iceland where we discussed this particular issue. Iceland had already started all the procedures at that time, and I wrote several articles and books, not just at home, even abroad, on the basis of all the knowledge, and decided to enter politics, because only in politics can it be interrupted by such practices. What should I be particularly aware of? It's your responsibility. Responsibility in criminal proceedings, here we see that we have a problem with the courts and the prosecutions. Responsibility, as far as criminal liability and compensation are concerned, where the key banks are. We note that very few indemnities have been brought, since banks, for the first time, do not want to know that they have been involved in this kind of practice, secondly, they do not want to investigate it themselves because the employees are involved, and rather resolve matters in a different way and sweep under the carpet; and thirdly, career responsibility. We have talked a lot about this today, saying that the people who caused the bank hole no longer occupy such cities. Worse yet, these people are now coming to places where they are proposing solutions for a bank hole. What does that mean? That they may influence the documentation from this site, that we do not get this documentation or that this documentation may even disappear. Therefore, this human resources responsibility is also important. If I could just point out what my colleague Logar said. The essence of this type of structure is that experts have been hired for their performance by so-called white-collar crime. These are experts who can do business first so as not to be criminal, or to cover up documentation and deceive investigators. We have now requested that all types of advisory and other contracts be sent and made available. Such defence mechanisms are still under way today. All kinds of experts, from financial to legal and others, deceive the public and mislead investigators with professional opinions and well-paid advice. That's why we demanded such contracts. Of course, there is also a need to draw attention to the media. Investigative journalism can do a lot of good in this type of investigation, unfortunately this meeting is at such a time and in such circumstances that the media are not too interested in developments in the National Assembly. I'm afraid that's not happening. I appeal to investigative journalists to report on the findings of the investigative commission and to raise the issue, as it is a matter of damage being done. We are trying to fix the damage by not having money lost in a bank hole now under financial fraud coming back to Slovenia, so that these people will buy cheap companies that went bankrupt through DUTB. Many questions remain open. The opening lecture of Dr. Logar, where he drew up networks that control banking sectors, is very transparent. The exact shape of these networks shows us what financial crime is all about, but some people just imagine it easier when they see the picture and the whole connection. The theme is very complex and therefore detection is very complex. The right shape of the nets will help some to imagine more easily how to detect and how money flows have been made. The exact shape of the cash flow gives us the whole picture several times. To conclude, I would like to point out that all institutions – police, prosecutions, courts, financial institutions, the Court of Auditors, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and others – and, of course, parliaments and, of course, in addition, investigative journalists have to add their pot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you. I would like to join what colleague Dobovšek said during the debate that the very important issue of this corporate climate in banks is also how many claims have been notified for bad banking practices. Among other things, this was highlighted by the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, who explained how they could assess whether this cooperation was good; that is, following the filing of compensation actions against previous administrations. On this basis, we have requested the Special Prosecutor's Office to provide us with information on this and only ad informandum. Since the largest bank was exposed, namely Nova Ljubljanska Banka, I can officially say here that, say, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, at EUR 1.5 billion, a deep hole covered by taxpayers, reported only three compensation procedures and notified 10 million. This means 0.6%. If I extrapolated this, if after this percentage there were these indemnities of bad banking practices throughout the system, it would be only 30 million in five billion. We do know, however, that criminals have reported charges of over 800 million euros. Here I join those who say that the key problem is in the New Ljubljana Bank. What is in our power is what we will do on this investigative committee. However, I have already said that we have a problem with the New Ljubljana Bank getting information on those matters which are public; it will be obvious that there will be some delays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I don't have much time left, so I'm gonna try to make the most of it. First of all, it is certainly already the opening part of the proposal, according to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, in this report, that the Commission has shown in a very short time that the Bank of Slovenia has found everything that the Bank of Slovenia does not. With her team, and with all her options, she didn't figure it out. Or maybe in other words, she didn't want to find out. Only that table, which has very clearly illustrated what and how, is more than appropriate to respond to those responsible in this country for detecting and persecuting so-called banking crime. But unfortunately, I, too, must stumble into the fact that everything is empty here on the government's side today. If, of course, there is no President of the Government, then I would expect at least his vice-president to come. But I have to say this, for example, the Vice-President of the Government prefers to work very intensively at this time – look at this public report, and then almost once more the material of that report, which has a code of secrecy – has been working to take away the status that was then Mag. The logs are hard to come by. This was the work of the vice-president of this government. Today, we are talking about this, respected that no one was responsible for practically one budget of money that has gone up in banking crime and has to be paid somehow by taxpayers. If I'm talking over a little bigger history. Almost one budget. Can you believe it?Oh, my God! And in fact, there's no one to keep one. And now I hope that at least what this committee has found will be the basis for those who should move. They haven't yet. We have also listened many times to what needs to be changed in legislation and have not yet come to this. I don't think that's always the reason. The main reason is that individuals are protected, in fact they are protected in this country. And as long as we're not all the same before the law and the big fish will come before the bolts, we're not gonna do anything. And that's it. Many wishes were expressed on the Commission's further good work. I believe that these desires have been revealed and that we all actually think so. However, I believe that we will be able to show up in the second part of the Commission when it continues its work; and then it will certainly see whether these are just empty words.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u179	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone! Perhaps in connection with the current events or moments we will have in the National Assembly, when it will also decide on future vice-governors in Banka Slovenije, an important detail. When we had the opportunity and opportunity to hear from current Governor Boštjan Jazbec, Professor Igor Masten made it very clear on the question of who proposed him as governor that this proposal was justified and sent to the President of the Republic by Professor Igor Masten. Today it's the vice-governor's candidate. The very important information is already due to the reason that many have also warned us about the hole in Probank and Factor Bank, which is the reason for the deterioration of the situation in these two banks; and it has been very clear from several hearings that Dr. Masten's statement that these two banks are in trouble has caused very serious problems. This has, of course, prevented many investors from getting rid of the banks by also raising capital on the market and thereby burdening public finances. At least it wouldn't have happened that we had to invest quite a lot of millions in these two banks. And this connection is something that we should be very careful to actually move all future candidates away from the possibility of taking this function, because it also allows them to hide some activities. The National Assembly will have a very difficult task when it adopts legislation on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court on how and how to obtain data that will provide significantly more information on how the bank hole has been calculated. As much as one of the current developments and findings that we may have detected in the work of the banking investigation committee. Besides, I'd like to draw your attention to something. We must not be too focused on someone getting credit and that this was a bad loan, of course, it must be analysed and where there was no cover, and where there was a suspicion of crime, this should also be pursued. But how much more must we pay attention to this fact that we can follow again today. Despite the fact that we have invested 5 billion in the banking system, Banka Slovenije has again noted that small and medium-sized enterprises will also have to deal with and fill a hole in banks, as bad credits are emerging there. But when we look at what this is about, we find that bank recoverys since 2013 have also resulted in capital outflows from Slovenia, namely, on 30 September 2013, business banks in Slovenia owed EUR 2.2 billion abroad; on 30 September 2015, business banks' claims from Slovenia for EUR 1.5 billion exceeded their obligations abroad. From 2013 to 2015, EUR 3.7 billion was collected outside Slovenia, almost 9% of gross domestic product. But this is the money that should be allocated when we invest it in banks, help the economy to better manage its debts and then create that additional value, preserve jobs and production. And economic growth in Slovenia during this period is largely the same because we have successful export companies working in foreign markets. And these are largely independent of the fact that it went from Slovenia to EUR 3.7 billion of bank capital. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones operating here in Slovenia, and 3.7 billion were loaded out. These small companies do not receive those loans that could actually be obtained under favourable conditions by the banks that we have saved; and this is a problem. But Banka Slovenije's banking regulator is still talking about new bad credits in small and medium-sized enterprises. Precisely those loans that could be dealt with and recovered by means of the funds we have invested in banks. Not only was there 5 billion, the regulator is insinuating that we will have to give more in the next period. And this is the question that we need to resolve as soon as possible in Slovenia – whether it is really necessary to sell everything in Slovenia and make it possible to sell our companies, to satisfy these interests after the capital or to obtain the funds that were created in Slovenia or for which we have committed people in Slovenia to repair the banking system. This is the process that is always present, even at the moment that we are discussing this problem; but the regulator of this thing looks in the eye and it seems normal to him; but this is not normal. You have money, but you don't help businesses that operate in our country, it's some kind of abnormal state. And I would like to draw particular attention to this in this part of the debate, because the emergence of new bad claims is really unnecessary; and this must be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u181	He still has the word as the last discusser of mags. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. For starters, allow me to express my personal impression. I must say that it is very easy for me to feel at heart, because I can find that neither I personally as Vice-President of the Commission nor my colleague, as much as I can guarantee them, nor the Modern Centre Party as a political party throughout this time since the commission of inquiry, is 1. 1. 1997 until this big bank hole, we weren't involved. At least I hope so. If I move forward, this period could be divided into what happened before the bank hole was created and after the bank hole was created. I have already pointed out in my position that the Modern Centre Party will support this and that we have been very constructively involved with the Commission; but I expected more precise, more in-depth answers for the time before the introduction of the euro when we were faced with the influx of a large amount of money; and what happened with this money after it came into the system. Undoubtedly, the regulator played an important role at the time in failing to monitor what this money is for, and what banking practices are for. But if I also touch on the political responsibility we already have in the title of the decision, I can also see that political responsibility will also need to be established in return. It is likely that colleague Logar, as President, will agree here that this interim report does not yet address political responsibility to this extent, as we and the viewers expect; however, this will have to be done in the future. That is why I have started in this way that I can heartwarm that the political responsibilities of the Modern Centre Party cannot, of course does not, will not and will not bear it; nor in the work that it has faced decisions that put the current government in a position when it has to solve what it can do. I'm talking about Factor Bank and Probank. The decision on controlled liquidation has already been taken. I agree with my colleague Pogačnik that this was a reasonable decision compared to the classical liquidation that – and I am now deliberately mentioning this again – has also been written in the articles and that we have asked and discussed on the committee how this could affect the increased inefficiencies of these two banks. That's why the decision, which, from what I understand from my colleague Pogačnik, tried to get me out of the fact that now after the controlled liquidation of the links between the two banks to DutB somehow isn't real, he's giving me some care that we want to make a difference. At the moment, the government can do what is most economically and justifiable. We have already talked about this in the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, as well as in the Committee on Finance, regarding your recommendations for the compulsory accession of Factor Bank and Probank, and I agree with that part when you said that further need for recapitalisation should be clarified regarding the methodologies for the valuation of claims and so on. Don't let me get too far. I would also like to talk about political responsibility for the future. Here, the coalition and the Modern Centre Party are already carrying and will bear responsibility, and this is precisely in connection with the conclusions proposed by the Investigative Commission. If I were to make a little joke, I'd say they were written to this government or coalition on the skin. We have already talked this week about legislative changes. I am now speaking for those who will continue with the reply of the President of the Government to the question put by my colleague Horvat. These included eight laws, three from the banking area, five from the legal and prognosis, including the employment of thirty new prosecutors, and the announcement of two novels of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Penal Code, which was due to come into effect shortly. And if we look at the first decision of the commission of inquiry that the National Assembly proposes amendments and additions to the law governing criminal proceedings. In this part there is also a talk about a specialised court. The President of the Government also addressed this question more indirectly in response to this question; but more said the Minister of Justice in Studio City this week regarding his visit, colleagues from the Bank of Slovenia and investigators in Iceland, where he collected good practices and also identified differences between Iceland and Slovenia. It was never good when we copied some models one-one and transferred them to Slovenia. Here I hope that the Ministry will take into account, with some healthy measure, what has been mentioned in our legal order in the light of the change we have to make in order to establish a specialised court can and can be effective; especially in the work referred to by our colleague Logar as what will mean the establishment of a new case law. I think this is the greatest opportunity for this specialised court. None of the other conclusions are such that, in my opinion, this national assembly could not meet it; nor is it the one that speaks of the authentic interpretation of Article 33 of the ZUKSB-B, because if we read the explanation that the legislator then wrote at the time of the adoption of this Article, the purpose of the adoption of that article in a quadruple of limitation was precisely to identify the bad practices that had occurred in the past. This period should therefore be extended to the committee responsible which will consider such an authentic explanation. We will see, get and hear also from the Legislative and Legal Service the justification for whether such an authentic explanation is really admissible and necessary. In conclusion, in some ways I look forward to the work of the commission of inquiry in the future and predict the same, at least the same or even greater involvement of the Group of the Modern Centre Party in the work of the Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you to all the debaters. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to Dr Anže Logar's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Chairman; I will be very brief. In a way, this report has already achieved its purpose. In the last week, if I am doing a bit of caricature, house investigations have taken place, a change of criminal law has been announced, a positive attitude has been announced by the government regarding the establishment of a specialised court and a first-level conviction has been made for some compensation action. I would also like to thank the members of the investigative commission on this site for their active work in the work of the investigative commission, as well as for the words made by the other fellow Members from all the parliamentary groups. I can say that I have put a lot of work into this report. I must say, I needed your encouragement if I may put it that way. You all want to continue this saga, this story, and you're all excited about finding political responsibility. I assure you that the next debate, when we find political responsibility, will not be as coherent and as calm as it was; and that there will not be as many positive tones, but perhaps sooner any objections that will lead to a rather violent debate. However, to the leadership of the National Assembly, it is my belief that he will not place these debates, like this debate today, on Friday evening; but on a more normal date, where more Members will be able to attend and more viewers will be accompanied by that savage meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-18-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much, everyone. Dear Ones, I interrupt the debate, which we will continue on Monday, 21. 11 a.m. closed meeting at 10 a.m., discussing the Additional Interim Report and the key findings of the Additional Interim Report. The material is marked by the degree of bank secrecy referred to in Article 125 ZBan-2 and will therefore be dealt with in accordance with Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure at a public meeting, as part of the remainder of the meeting. Members and Members of Parliament, please remove from the Chamber everything you have on the bench so that the competent services of the assembly can carry out whatever is necessary to carry out the closed part of the meeting. Members and Members of Parliament shall be informed at the same time that, on Monday, the entrance to the Chamber will be possible only when passing through the detection door. The entrance will be supervised by the security unit of the National Assembly. No electronic devices will be allowed to enter the hall, such as portable phones, computers, tape recorders, cameras and the like. I also ask you to have the necessary identification documents with you when you enter the hall, as well as the parliamentary cards. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Monday, 21. 11 o'clock, 10 o'clock. At the same time, I wish you a safe trip home and a nice evening! Goodbye.
