ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Violeta Tomić from 16:00 on, Mrs Iva Dimic from 12:00 on, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Matjaž Hanžek from 14:00 on, Dr Matthew T. Vatovec from 15:00 on, Mr Bojan Podkoršek, Mr Jernej Vrtovec from 16.30 on, Mr Jožef Horvat from 17.30 on 20.30 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION ON PHARMACEUTICAL ACTIVITY IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE MODERN PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! I am pleased that today we will consider for the second time the Proposal for a Law on Pharmacy. Let me reiterate that this is a very important regulation that will replace the current Pharmacy Act after 24 years. In a public presentation of our opinions, we have heard various proposals and some have also taken due account. We have aligned the law with a number of stakeholders, including representatives of the Pharmacy Chamber, pharmacies, Health Insurance Department, Faculty of Pharmacy and others. Many countries that have left the pharmacy business to the market are now back in regulation. The bill stipulates that the pharmacy activity in Slovenia continues to be regulated. This is a public health service of general interest. Its purpose is to ensure quality and effective supply of medicinal products and other products to support treatment and to maintain public health and to advise on their safe, effective and correct use. The bill improves the regulation of the field of this activity, brings positive news to Slovenian patients and performers and follows today's needs in this area. The proposal brings the necessary solutions and allows Slovenian pharmacy activities to develop in accordance with the global standards of pharmacy that work for the benefit of the patient and our health system. Therefore, care and clinical pharmacology are in place for patients. By conducting pharmacovigilance tests, introducing clinical pharmacology and reviewing the use of medicinal products, we will have an effective effect on the increasing challenge posed by polypharmacotherapy, which means taking multiple medicines at the same time, thereby increasing the safety of patients, reducing adverse reactions and resulting in hospitalisation and reducing the use of medicinal products by properly prescribed therapy. Positive news for patients is also a network that has not yet been established in marriage. This aim is to ensure that people in Slovenia have even better access to medicines. At the primary level of healthcare, the pharmacy network is provided by the municipality or several neighbouring municipalities and at the secondary and tertiary level by the state. Patients should not be encouraged to over-purchase or use medicinal products as this increases the number of adverse reactions of medicinal products, the undesirable effects of these medicinal products and other products, which may result in health-related adverse effects. We introduce licences to ensure the full professional integrity of pharmacists and thus follow the other Member States. There's been a lot of talk about vertical connectivity. The bill provides for this kind of integration. This prohibition means that pharmacists will not be required to be associated with legal persons engaged in the industrial manufacture of medicinal products and medical devices or in the activity of heavy-duty transport with medicinal products and medical devices and other products to support treatment and to maintain health. The vast majority of countries with well-managed pharmaceutical activities, such as Austria, Germany, France and Italy, also have prohibited vertical connections. In the drafting of the law, we followed the principle that the holder of the pharmacy activity, as well as the operator of this activity, must be completely independent in the performance of our work, without violating and obstructing the free economic initiative, as the European Court has confirmed several times. Pharmacists cannot and must not be the primary goal of profit, but of providing the population with medicines that are not profitable. The main purpose of this activity is to ensure quality and effective supply of medicines. I believe today's session will be constructive. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that the second and third proceedings be merged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Gantar, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! So, the Health Committee is at its 18th session of 30. 11. As a parent working body, he considered the Proposal for a Law on Pharmaceutical Activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 28. Seven. Several amendments were tabled within the deadline. On the basis of Articles 41, 46 and 47 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the decisions taken at the 17th meeting, the Health Committee organised a public presentation of the opinions held on the 10th meeting. 11. to which representatives of the professional and interested public were invited. The introductory explanation was given by the Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc on behalf of the proposer. The scope of the pharmacy activity should be regulated to allow all users access to services under the same conditions. The proposal sets out and establishes a general framework and a single starting point for the implementation and organisation of pharmacy activities, lays down the conditions and procedures for the award and implementation of concessions, pharmaceutical professionals and their associations, inter-network pharmacy activities and supervision. In preparing the amendments, the proposer also took into account the comments and proposals made in the public presentation of the opinions of the National Assembly. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that their service had examined the proposed Act on Pharmaceutical Activities in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical aspects of the legislation and had made a number of comments on the legal system. The amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups have been duly taken into account and have drawn attention to some key comments which are not addressed by the amendments. The opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by Vice-President Tomaž Horvat and stressed that the Commission supports the bill. The position of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia was given by Director Janez Sušelj. He pointed out that, when preparing the draft law, the ZZZ had forwarded comments to the Ministry of Health, which had been taken into account accordingly. However, he drew attention to areas where the ZZS is not involved, but to the role it plays, this would make sense. The Commission's view on preventing corruption was largely disregarded by President Boris Štefanec. In the debate, members of the opposition's committee objected to the consideration of the bill and, in view of many comments, suggested that the law was not suitable for further consideration, which we did not vote on on the committee. The Committee adopted amendments to 87 articles. Some have not accepted, some have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments received, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister and Secretary of State, I wish you a good day! The proposal for a pharmacy law; it is in fact a law that will change the regulation of pharmacy activities in our country after two decades. And although the law brings some interesting solutions, such as the partial abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber, carelessness for patients, we cannot support it in Novi Slovenija, because our programming points or views and views on the regulation of this activity are completely different from, for example, the views of the bill's proponents and the view of the coalition. But that's the way it is. The views are different. Well, today there is such an orderly pharmacy activity that a small number of players in the pharmacy market therefore share the total profit of the activity on the basis of the elimination of also competition and the distortion of the final prices resulting from administrative provisions on the evaluation of pharmacy services. The pharmacy market is therefore not only closed but also geographically segmented, which is against every competition law and should also be sanctioned. If we are to achieve a reduction in the prices of medicines and pharmacy services, it is obvious that the liberalisation of this market is necessary. And it is completely illogical that some medicines that have no harmful side effects, for example, are only sold in pharmacies and nowhere else, at prices previously determined by the drug cartel itself. The market for pharmacy activities is also deformed from the point of view of the ownership structure of pharmacies. Traditionally, around 80% of the market is represented by public institutions and others by private individuals. Such a structure is likely to be able to be explained by the fact that the profits of pharmacies, which are public establishments, are an excellent source of funding for the budgets of local communities, resulting in an unusual fact that money from the stabilisation of the health status of citizens flows into investment projects of local communities. Slovenia is also ranked at the top of the countries by the size of the wholesale margins, which means that we have identified an additional source of drug irritation that comes to the end of the user from the wholesalers via pharmacies. Liberalisation and deregulation of the pharmacy and velodrogerist industry are a key prerequisite, a key prerequisite for lowering drug prices and limiting the money spill from the funds that individuals reserve to remedy the health situation to cartel-blown profits of pharmacies and velodrogerists. If I can sum it up. The proposal for a new pharmacy law does not therefore bring about anything in the direction of deregulation of this activity, but this activity remains extremely regulated. It also did not provide any assurance that the availability would increase, let alone lower the prices of medicines. And given that this is a systemic law, Christian Democrats would expect to include provisions on conscientious objection to pharmaceutical workers, as have doctors in comparable legislation and abroad. In the field of the implementation of pharmacy activities, pharmaceutical professionals face situations in which they wish to refuse to issue a particular medicine because of conscience, but this is not possible because of the lack of clarity of legislation in this area. With the amendment, we would like to make it possible to object to the conscience of pharmaceutical professionals who, in carrying out pharmaceutical activities, encounter, for example, the purchase, preparation and issuance of preparations, tools, medicines or other things used to carry out artificial fertilisation procedures, abortions and so on. In the public presentation of opinions, the Pharmaceuts were also warned about the irregularity of the objection to conscience, so the amendment of New Slovenia makes sense in this area. The bill also, as we recall, divided the parties to the ruling coalition, as well as the evidence of a non-professional approach due to a number of comments from the Legislative and Legal Service. At this point, it is worth noting that such laws should not be put into the parliamentary procedure in the future, that laws are actually being prepared and to a large extent drafted through parliamentary procedure. In New Slovenia, as has already been said, we will not support the law for all these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you and a nice hello. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! Before us is the law or amendment of the Law on Pharmacy. This is supposed to be one or the first of the reform laws of health. And reform laws are not adopted in the way that this law is. The law that's before us is bad. There might be something better than the basic version, but it's still bad and it's not really saving anything. That is why all Members of our Group will vote against. The law has 129 articles, virtually everyone has been amended. And so that we all get the feeling, I'm going to list these articles, even though this is going to take almost half of the time of my presentation. Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 17, 18, 21, 25, 26, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 45, 46, 47, 49, 51, 52, 55, 56, 58, 62, 63, 66, 68, 69, 70, 71, 73, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82., 83, 84, 85, 86, 89, 90, 91, 95, 96, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105., 107., 109, 110, 111., 113., 114., 115., 118., 122.122. And in this way, dear Minister, reform laws in the field of health are not adopted. If you find out that the marriage is bad, you remove it, coordinate it, and bring in a new one. I would like to know how many coalition members today can say what this law actually says. I think we count them on the fingers of one hand. Perhaps the former Minister of Gantar, who was really actively involved in this, and he should think very, very much. And in this way, laws are not made or adopted. It's a shame that you've gone through this kind of reform of the health system. And what you accept today does not give us a little hope that there will be anything else in health care. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Erika Dekleva will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal we are considering today deals with the field of pharmacy activities in Slovenia in a way that remains regulated as a public health service providing citizens with quality and effective care for medicines and other products in support of treatment, while also very clearly defining pharmaceutical treatment in the form of advice for the safe and correct use of medicines. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the law follows the objective of providing all patients with the same conditions of pharmacy services. In particular, we consider as important innovations for the benefit of the patient the duty-free care that is defined in the proposal as ensuring the continuous care of patients with medicines and pharmaceutical services when passing between different levels of healthcare. In the context of carefree medical practitioners at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of health care ensure that information on treatment with medicinal products is exchanged with each patient, which allows for rapid and effective coordination of treatment with medicinal products and is important for the safe continuation of treatment when the patient is admitted to and released from the hospital. An important novelty is the introduction of a clinical pharmacist to ensure the safe, optimal and rational use of medicinal products in individual departments in hospitals. This is a specialist pharmaceutical activity involving the activities and services of a pharmacist that lead to comprehensive personal treatment and are complementary to the activities of other health services, as we now know that clinical pharmacology helps to improve the treatment of patients. In this way, the bill places great emphasis on advice on the safe, effective and correct use of medicines. However, the draft law also regulates more broadly the purpose, content and conditions for carrying out pharmaceutical activities and the organisation and recruitment of this activity, both in the form of pharmacies and public institutions as well as private individuals on the market. Detailedly defines pharmaceutical professionals and their associations, regulates the area of the production of Galenic and Master's Medicine in pharmacies, inter-network pharmacy activities and supervision of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices for the implementation of the activity. The draft law lays down the legal basis for the implementation of a pharmacy activity at systemic level and thus eliminates the many inconsistencies and shortcomings of the current regime and follows the objectives of the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025. The proposal for a Pharmaceutical Act is one of the first health laws to systematically regulate an area that has not been seriously reorganised for many years. The current law has been unchanged since 2004, despite the fact that the professional public has for many years been alerting us to the anomalies and shortcomings that have been resolved by a new proposal after many years. That is why the coordination of the proposal with all stakeholders has been long-term but, as we believe, also successful. Today we are adopting a law that is mainly written in the interests of people and public interest, so we will support it in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, including young citizens up here on the balcony! The Ministry of Health has therefore sent a proposal for a law on pharmaceutical activities into the procedure, which is also a sign of the confusion that exists at the Ministry of Health. So again, we are witnessing that the Ministry of Health is preparing its laws – which, I must say, few – very badly, without the participation of the profession, and that the Ministry, instead of moving on to systemic changes, prefers to approach the production of special laws. Why do I say that? The Act on Pharmacy Activities was first discussed on the working body on 6 October this year. In view of the fact that the very creation of this law has been a great deal of a dilemma, that the law has been opposed by the profession as well as by the coalition party Desus, and that almost every article of this law has been amended, we have also decided at this meeting that before the adoption of the law in the National Assembly a public presentation of the opinions will take place. The very presentation of opinions, which took place on 10 October, was intended to obtain an opinion and a professional position and, of course, the general public as well. And this presentation of public opinion was attended by a total of 28 stakeholders. But this public presentation of opinions was just sand in the eyes. However, the discussion and the content conclusions, which are intended to serve as a basis for the re-examination of the law in the home labour body and the final confirmation in the National Assembly, have not been taken into account. Thus, on 30 November, we re-examined this proposal containing 129 articles on the Health Committee. The fact that the marriage was poorly prepared is a fact, since 127 amendments have been tabled on it. The poorly prepared law was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in its opinion, pointed out that the law constituted a special arrangement and was a departure under the Law on Institutions and the Law on Health Activities, which, of course, systematically regulate the area. According to the ZPS, under the proposed law, the public pharmacy institution differs from those laws on a number of issues, i.e. with regard to the regulation of the bodies of the institution, the powers of those authorities, the regulation of market activities, the mandatory elements of the acts establishing and the composition of the board of institutions. However, the bill is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and has also been written by the ZPS. The poorly prepared law was also pointed out by the KPK, the Information Commissioner, the Institute for Health Insurance, the local community and the profession as well as the recent opposition, but unfortunately in vain. The coalition has gone its way, this time with the support of Desus. So once again, today we are adopting a law on pharmacy activity, which was prepared without the participation of the profession, without taking into account the substantive conclusions of the public debate and without cooperation with the stakeholders involved, but we are already used to such behaviour by the Ministry of Health. The Pharmacy Act has a lot of open questions and a dilemma, it contains undefined procedures, it contains non-systemic solutions, legal gaps, shortcomings, a vague way of financing. Finally, this law is also a violation of free competition, and thus a violation of the European Directive, for which Slovenia has already applied to the European Commission and the European Commission has already initiated a formal procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the Health Committee, we highlighted all these shortcomings, warnings from the professions and stakeholders, we drew attention to the disastrously poorly prepared bill and the fact that the Ministry had first taken on special legislation, rather than first drawing up systemic changes that were of any importance. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support a non-systematic, opaque, poorly prepared law at all costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the DeSUS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you very much, once again a nice greeting to everyone! Therefore, Members and Members of the Desus Group have always been very critical in the consideration of the Proposal for a Pharmaceutical Act, both in terms of substantive solutions and in terms of the many necessary changes to the original proposal. That is why we have proposed a public presentation of the opinions that we wanted to come to a more substantively better law. At a public presentation held in November, we heard quite a variety of views, which were sometimes contradictory. We are pleased, however, that they have been taken into account in the drafting of the new amendments to the bill. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that today, on the basis of all the laws adopted, the proposal has undoubtedly improved on the working body of the mother. The bill is aimed at protecting the public interest in the field of pharmacy activity, but does not remove all doubts and inconsistencies. Thus, for example, Article 3 leaves out the main task of drug users, namely providing quality, safe and effective medicines. Not clearly defined remains a duty-free concern and we fear that its interpretation can be very different. The role of counsellor’s pharmacist in hospitals remains undecided. We believe that control over the implementation of the law itself should be better defined and clearly defined in the event of irregularities found. Of course, many key comments were taken into account and included in the amendments adopted on the home labour body. In the Desus Group, we view the proposal to ban vertical connections in pharmaceutical activities as more important, which we have been advocating all the time. According to our assessment, the professional independence of pharmacists is further ensured as activities of particular social importance in the field of pharmacy. Such a ban is also possible in other European countries with regulated pharmaceutical activities, so we have not invented anything new in Slovenia; we have only taken good practice from some countries, which is crucial. As a good one, we consider the suggestion that the patient should be given the necessary medicines upon discharge from the hospital, and we are concerned that this is not clearly and unequivocally recorded in the definition of duty-free care. As a positive assessment of the revised provisions on surpluses generated by the public pharmacy office, the surplus of income can also be earmarked for the development of personnel and the introduction of new pharmacy services. The funds to be returned to the founder by the institution should be used exclusively by the municipality to carry out health care activities. The provisions on advertising in the field of pharmaceuticals have also been significantly improved. They take into account that medicines are not usually marketable goods and therefore their advertising is prohibited. In the Desus Group, after all the debates and changes that have been made to date in the consideration of the draft law, we have assessed that the proposed proposal for a pharmacy act is so much better that we can support it in the proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The basic objective of the new pharmacy law is, according to the applicant, to address the inconsistencies and shortcomings of the current regulation and to regulate this area in a way that ensures that a pharmacy activity is carried out in such a way that all users can have access to pharmacy services under the same conditions. The law pursues the objective of defining the services of pharmacy activities, correcting shortcomings in the system of financing pharmacy activities, regulating the status forms and identifying the operators of pharmacy activities. In the area of financing, however, the aim of the law is to establish a regulation that will ensure that the price of pharmacy services is established and that a system is put in place to finance public services and not more operators. It also establishes a general framework and a single starting point for the implementation and organisation of pharmacy activities, lays down the conditions and procedures for the award and implementation of concessions for the performance of pharmacy activities, pharmaceutical professionals and their associations, inter-network pharmacy activities and supervision. The purpose of the pharmacy activity is to ensure quality and effective supply of medicines and other products to support and maintain health and to advise on their safe, correct and effective use by patients and healthcare professionals. There is also a great deal of emphasis in the law on providing advice on the safe, effective and correct use of medicines. The bill explicitly states that pharmacy activity is carried out as a public health service, i.e. in an unprofitable manner. Notwithstanding this fundamental principle, the law expressly allows for the creation of surpluses or returns on invested own resources to be used to carry out a pharmacy activity. One of the most important solutions is the establishment of a pharmacy network at the primary level, defined so far only by the Resolution in the National Health Plan. It is determined on the basis of geographical, demographic and professional criteria. The proposal for a law sets out the operators of the pharmacy activity and prescribes that the pharmacy activity is carried out by public pharmacy establishments, natural or legal persons with concessions for the performance of the pharmacy activity, hospitals, pharmacy and pharmacy within the military on the basis of the authorisation to carry out the pharmacy activity. Concessions will be awarded for at least 15 and a maximum of 30 years in accordance with the proposed legal provisions. According to the new, it will be possible to carry out the profession independently of the Master of Pharmacy only on the basis of a licence. More specifically, it also regulates the production of Galenic and Master’s Medicine in pharmacies. The bill defines the financing of pharmacy activities from both private and public sources. The potential surplus generated by the public pharmacy office will, in accordance with the proposed legal provisions, be allocated to the solvency and liquidity of the public institution, investment, development and introduction of new pharmacy services. However, part of the surplus may be returned to the founder on the basis of a proposal by the Council of the Public Pharmacy Institute, provided that the conditions in the law are met. This should provide for more sustainable funding for pharmacy activities and, in particular, follow the principle that the surplus is primarily used to develop healthcare activities or pharmacy activities than its component. An important novelty is the more detailed regulation of the operation of hospital pharmacies and the introduction of so-called duty free care for the patient, which is the commitment of the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 "Common for the Health Society". It is a matter of ensuring the patient’s continued care with medicines and pharmaceutical services when passing between different levels of healthcare. The functioning of a care-free system is also largely linked to a clinical pharmacy that is now legally defined as a specialist pharmaceutical activity for the first time. The proposal does not limit or prohibit the market activities of pharmacies, but merely prohibits the promotion of unnecessary purchases of medicines, as the medical and pharmaceutical profession is considered harmful. At our conference on health in the area of amendments to the Law on Pharmaceuticals, we wrote that the key areas to be addressed by the law are the following: financing of pharmacy activities and thus a clear definition that pharmacy activities are part of public health, the introduction of new cognitive services that will reduce the cost of medicines, the regulation of the area of establishment, etc. We believe that the proposed law [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u18	Most of our guidelines follow, so we will not oppose the proposal of the law. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u19	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we expected this law to protect the public interest. We expected a concrete limitation of concessions. While there are some of these restrictions in the law, if we draw the line below the whole, this proposal improves and improves the position of the concessionaires. And here, to tell you the truth, I find my disappointment very difficult to hide. If I am very specific, the proposal in Article 26 prohibits public pharmacies from owning wholesale companies, which, of course, we can conditionally agree to, but at the same time, this proposal does not prohibit wholesale companies from having a share in concessional pharmacies. That wouldn't even be a problem if concessionaires remained espacies like that so far. But a government proposal allows a pharmacist to open a portion and sell the half share to a third party. And the disputed article 26 prohibits only a link from the pharmacy to the grosist, not the ownership link from the croissant to the pharmacy. And with this in law there is no longer a guardian who would prevent the Grossists from becoming co-owners of 87 private pharmacies in Slovenia. Why is that bad? We have cases abroad, and the government also cites these cases in its material that big drugstores buy a whole chain of pharmacies and then use it to increase sales. This, of course, promotes the excessive use of medicines, and that is exactly what will happen to us if we do not prohibit this vertical link. Another concrete case where the law is much stricter in treating public institutions as concessionaires is the issue of surplus. Only our public pharmacy between 2011 and 2014, i.e. in the years of the worst crisis, created a total of EUR 32 million surplus. In doing so, almost 80% of the revenue was derived from public funds. We therefore, of course, support the proposal in the law so that the surpluses of public pharmacies can only be used to develop health activities. However, we do not agree that, following a government proposal, this provision applies only to public pharmacies, but not to concessionaires. We therefore propose that a minimum concession fee should be laid down by law, which must be paid to the municipality by the concessionaire. At the same time, we propose a provision that the municipality may use these funds exclusively for health activities. The third problem of the proposal is that the law does not guarantee employees in public pharmacies the same rights of co-decision as employees in private companies. Therefore, we demand that the law prescribe that at least one third of the members of the board of the institution should be provided for employees. If I conclude slowly, this proposal is based on the principle that concessions have complemented public pharmacies in order to avoid excessive use of medicines. In the Joint Left, although we are in the medium term for the development of a public system in which concessions are completely eliminated, but this time, I will say, we modestly suggest simply that we eliminate some of the blind spots which are contrary to these objectives. Yesterday, the Minister of Health fully answered my questions, but her answers were sadly lacking in satisfaction. I repeat, paragraph 26 of the second paragraph prohibits only having a pharmacy owned by a wholesaler, but does not prohibit a wholesaler from being co-owner of a pharmacy. And with that, the vertical link is actually preserved. There is also no provision in the Medicinal Products Act to prohibit the formation of a vertical link in this way. And in order to fix this, there is only one paragraph to be added in the law that explicitly prohibits such a type of vertical link. And that is, after all, all that is crucial to our proposals. I asked the Minister another question yesterday, to which I also did not get an answer in this official work, so I will repeat it this time. What will happen to Farmadent and LL Grosisto, owned by a Maribor pharmacy or a Ljubljana pharmacy? Can a legal situation be established by transferring companies to their own municipalities or the Republic of Slovenia? This question is pertinent because it is another alternative for these two companies to either [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u22	They either privatize or wind up. [[…]] And as I have already said on the committee, we will tie support to the law to support our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SMC and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we are committed to having the best possible public pharmacy system and, of course, on the basis of this objective, we are committed to the complete elimination of concessions. There are two reasons for this. The first is that surpluses remain publicly owned and the second is that the concessionaire creates this surplus at the expense of public funds. If we look at the profitability of this activity – in 2014, for example, pharmacies had a surplus of €7.5 million. Between 2011 and 2014 – during the worst crisis period – they created a total of EUR 32 million surplus. And if a pharmacy activity is carried out by a private person, this surplus is also privatized. And instead of staying jointly owned and spent on developing the health system, it's full of private pockets. At the same time, these private pharmacies depend on public funds, which also provide the most traffic; almost 80% of the revenues of pharmacies consist of revenue from the public service. We are talking about prescription medicines paid from the contributions of the ZZZS and from supplementary insurance premiums. And then this money to pharmacies provides funds for wages and for spaces, a market activity where, of course, they have a higher margin, but it's just an upgrade. Therefore, if we already tolerate in the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities of the concession, at least they should be subject to a compulsory concession fee. And that's exactly what we're proposing in the United Left for section 52 of the law. This is already prescribed for public institutions, so that overexpenditures can only be used for health care, including medicine. And why the hell shouldn't concessionaires contribute and return to the community in a similar way? It is clear that the Government, which has privatised funeral and burial activities and which intends to privatise the operation of rail and port infrastructure, will not go into the entire project of abolishing concessions in health and pharmacy, although some government members may have such an advanced idea, so for us socialists at the moment and in this law, the question of whether this law restricts concessions more than they are currently limited. The answer to that question is, unfortunately, no. I will first explain our comments and then point out exactly what the problem is and how we can solve it with our amendments. As it is said, the proposal requires that the surplus of public pharmacies can only be used for health activities, and nowhere does it prescribe that surpluses created by concessionaires could be used for health activities, although this would be perfectly correct. This anomaly removes our amendment to Article 55. Come in. As it is said, this new proposal allows concessionaires to open up a share and obtain 50% of the equity share of third parties in these parts. This is for the first time bad in itself because of the fact that, of course, these third parties will invest in pharmacies only because they expect some profitability and profit on their investment, thereby making the pharmacy directly, structurally, if you want, back on a profitable, market motive. And by doing so, we force them directly to violate one of the stated objectives of this law, which is to prevent excessive use of medicines. After all, pharmacies can only increase profits by increasing the sales of medicines, so of course they will go into aggressive self-promotion and care to meet investment expectations. As stated in Article 26, paragraph 2, prohibits the possession of a pharmacy owned by a Grossist, but does not prohibit this Grossist from becoming a co-owner of a concessional pharmacy, which is the most controversial point of this law for us. Such an arrangement has not been problematic so far because private pharmacists have been registered as espaes, but nothing new prevents anything in this law from becoming, say, a silent partner in 87 private pharmacies with us. And on this subject, I also asked the Minister yesterday a question that claimed to me that what I said was not true and that it was regulated in the law. Madam Minister, I believe that your team at the Ministry – in which people are, I will say, of dubious origin – has assured you that vertical connections are completely prohibited in this law, but that is simply not true. Article 26 of the Act, which contains general restrictions for pharmacists, has five paragraphs. The specific prohibition of vertical connections between pharmacies and grossites is included in the second paragraph, but nowhere else is ownership or potential ownership of grossites in private pharmacies, which, of course, in practice means a vertical connection and that the Grosses will have full chains of pharmacies, of course solely in order to raise their own profits. And once again, we are deliberately promoting over-sales of drugs, all on behalf of profit. Finally, I would like to stress the right of pharmacists to co-decision, which is not sufficiently guaranteed in this law. The Law on the participation of employees in management provides employees in companies with at least one third of the representatives in the Supervisory Board. And at this point, drugstore workers in public pharmacies are in a worse position than employees in private companies. In particular, there are only one eighth of representatives in the institution's world in the Maribor office, and of course we want to correct that in the United Left. You know that, of course, democratic socialists are committed to democracy in the economy and to the labour management of public institutions, and so on, which, of course, also entails a significantly better transparency of companies or public institutions, a significantly better use of finance and so on. In short, the effects are positive on all sides because companies, public establishments under labour administration or co-administration are making it significantly more difficult to forgive their employees, significantly harder to move production, cut wages and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this at the end of Article 4? Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u26	Good afternoon. I'll be very brief. The Pharmacy Act has been needed and certainly brings a number of things that have not been regulated and have somehow tried to regulate earlier with some other legislation, such as in the previous mandate with the Medicinal Products Act. Of course, I cannot go beyond the fact that I note one weakness that is extremely unusual, which is, of course, that the state is in fact somehow denying itself the right to set up businesses. I'm talking about public institutions. And this is an eccentric example of how this is actually the legalisation of what we will see later in the case that universities will no longer be able to set up businesses, when other public institutions in other areas will not be able to set up companies with one simple explanation – if this is true for the public pharmacy institutions, I do not know why it would not apply to all other public institutions in the country. In particular, I see the problem that, when we are afraid of unfair competition or even irregularities in the business between a particular pharmacy and a grossist, it is significantly easier to say, "we will ban vertical connections" instead of amending the provision of the article that says that the Court of Auditors has, in the event of a public institution setting up a company, entry into this company – which was a key problem to date, that the Court of Auditors could never review these grosses. Instead of increasing control, maintaining the possibility of doing business and operating in this area, we prefer to opt out. What did we do on the other side? We are a kind, truly amazing country. We have proposed or introduced a way, and I think someone is missing his hand, and he's glad he didn't have to pay a penny to lobby. In fact, he's going to increase his income. All that can no longer profit from the grosist pharmacy companies will now be done by two companies – Salus, Chemofarmation – and we have given them a really beautiful gift and it is free, free of charge, just by explaining that we are now going to do transparent and clean and legal work. I have to say, I deeply disagree with that. The goal can be the same, but the way to achieve these goals is, of course, completely different. I myself see a greater role in strengthening control; if we have an Court of Auditors that does its work well, thoroughly, I believe that it would find an anomaly and a warning about a change in the operations of the Grosses. But we've decided another way. I'm sorry. However, I fear it is also unconstitutional because it is a limitation of the economic initiative. I wonder where we're going to put our employees in these greasy businesses. I don't understand. I didn't get an answer to that until today. On the other hand, to mention this, it was said that there was no coordination with the expert. It seems to me that this argument from the vine is purely because it was a public presentation of opinions. The views were given, even the requirement was made for this and the law was, of course, amended, the amendments that came, of course, certainly upgraded. However, the fact is that the dilemmas that were opened were made before this public presentation and since the law was already in the public debate in the spring, it is more than clear that this cooperation was. Of course, the interpretation of who and how they work can be very different. One imagines working together so that what one wants can simply be placed and written in a bill. According to this logic, we don't need any proponents at all, because it's enough to just send a draft, I'll tell the actors who are concerned with the law and have them write the law themselves as they think it's best. On the other hand, the interpretation is, of course, an explanation of what this cooperation means for you to listen to them, hear them, and decide on your proposal. In view of the fact that we must not forget, policies set out a policy that is also in the Government and not least in the National Assembly, but rather a policy of interest and lobbying groups that would like to exercise their right in any way. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u27	Since I see that there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening the way for the application. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would really like to hear the response and response of the executive branch of power to these concerns and warnings. These concerns, as we have just heard, are not only shared by the United Left, also highlighted by colleague Jani Möderndorfer. First of all, what's going to happen to Farmadent and LL Grossist? The law states that the situation on the ground must comply with the law within one year, but does not say how to do so. We have a case where the public pharmacy is owned by a grosist – this is the Farmadent of Maribor and the LL Grossist of Ljubljana – and now the question is how will this situation be coordinated with the law? We have three different options: whether to transfer the Farmadent and LL Grossist to the country or to the municipalities concerned – this is the first option that we are also defending in the United Left – or whether these Grossists are privatising, which we strongly oppose, and we are also strongly opposed to the liquidation of these companies. The only one who will earn and benefit from LL Grossist and Farmadent being liquidated or privatised is two large players who already control 80% of the market. This is Chemofarmation and Salus. I don't see why we'd want to do that in this country. Moreover, if two companies control 80% of the market, this means that there are also advocates of free market policies, such as from the largest coalition of parties that go beyond liberalisation, privatisation and deregulation, because we are dealing with a very powerful pharmaceutical oligopoly, and certainly not with small competing companies competing with each other. Of course, in such situations, it is particularly sensible that a roughneck such as the Farmadent and the LL Grossist are kept public. But unfortunately, this law does not explicitly stipulate. It only determines that public pharmacies and grosites need to be separated. And this here is the first dilemma and the first question for the executive branch of power, exactly how they will now step up in this regard. Another particularly burning issue is the prohibition of vertical connections from a bulwark to the possession of pharmacies. Yesterday, the Minister insisted on my question, not that the law prohibits all this, that this is not possible. O.K., I agree with this objective, and we share it in the United Left, and the problem is that this law does not implement it. It is not implemented in its 26th Article, which is aimed at accurately prohibiting vertical links and does not implement them anywhere else in the law. Here I would like to hear the representatives of the ministry insisting on the claims that vertical links to this drug law are truly universally prohibited – to show me exactly where this is written. This is, of course, a provocation because it does not appear anywhere in this law, and therefore, in the United Left, we have also tabled an amendment which adds a paragraph to Article 26, which prohibits the vertical link of ownership from the Grossist to pharmacies. But why this is bad, I have already highlighted it in my position and in my previous debate, but I will repeat it again. In Slovenia, we have 87 private pharmacies and if we let go of gristas, pressure on pharmacies to increase profits through excessive drug sales will increase enormously. But the mere limitation of over-sale of medicines is one of the public health missions that is supposed to realize this law, and it is the opposite of the capitalist tendency that lies in the heart: let's give people medicine and even more medicine consumption so that pharmaceuticals, wholesalers, chemopharmaceutical giants can earn even more. I don't think that's what they want at the Ministry of Health, at least that's how they swear, so I'd like to hear their answer to these concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u29	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would also like to thank you for the obvious questions raised because of misunderstandings or other matters related to the prohibition of vertical connection. Let me once again make it very clear that Article 26 prohibits vertical connections in both directions, because this law defines a pharmacy activity. Therefore, it also follows that the operators of the pharmacy business cannot be linked directly or indirectly to both velodrogerists and manufacturers. Of course, if you prohibit a vertical connection in one direction, it means that this vertical connection is also prohibited in the other direction. Why? And why have other countries that have a well-regulated market that have good access to medicines that have a wide range of medicines, such as Germany, Italy, Austria, France and others? So the countries we usually take for example. And why? The European Commission’s actions before the Court of Justice of the European Union were also brought when these countries imposed a ban on these links. And all the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union have said the same and, of course, said that the European Commission is not right in this work when it says that this is a restriction or distortion of a free economic, economic initiative. While in its judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that this is in a certain part a restriction of this initiative, that it is a public interest, namely the supply and accessibility of medicines for the population of a given country, over the interest of a free economic initiative. And these judgments have been, you can look at them since 2006. Therefore, of course, this argument does not apply. And why is that a ban? This is because it is important to ensure the professional independence of pharmacists whose concern must be the care of individual health, public health insurance and not for the pharmacy to have as much profit as possible and to promote or promote even the purchase and sale of medicines. And by preventing such connections, the economic impact on the professional decisions of pharmacists is thus minimised because the professional director who must be a licensed pharmacist, which we introduce in a new way, can lose this licence if it is found that he acted contrary to the principles applicable to pharmacists or their licences. This is precisely because of this aspect, this economic connectivity and dependence. And something else is very important, especially in terms of providing pharmacies with the widest possible range of medicines available to patients. Because if such a link were to remain between a manufacturer or a velodrogerist, only one narrow, limited range of this particular manufacturer or only one of those drugs that could be the largest in the pharmacy could be available. This is also a problem for the European Union, as it also happens that pharmaceutical companies from the market are taking economically uninteresting medicines even though they have established clinical studies and health indications. They are said to be useful, but there is a small difference in price or profit and they take them out of the market because their goal is different. And that's profit. With regard to the Farmadent and LL Grossista, the law does not prohibit it; he simply notes that they do not have the appropriate ownership structure at this time. This may, however, change as any other ownership structure. Therefore, a one-year transitional period is envisaged. And one more thing, there are already 70 biggers or traders registered in Slovenia who have permission to sell medicines. So it is true that Sanolabor and Chemofarmation have significant market shares because they also have broad ranges, while Farmadent and LL Grossist have a very minor share. So it's just that it doesn't stop them, that it doesn't, like it often does, go bankrupt. All you have to do is change this law's adjusted ownership structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u31	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll start this time from the other end back, as far as the Farmadent and the LL Grossista are concerned. What I really care about is whether or not the only really relevant thing that interests me in this part of the law is whether it is a valid solution to transfer these two companies either to the municipality or to the country within one year of harmonisation of the situation on the ground with the legal provisions. Yes or no? That's the one thing I'm interested in here. As for the limitation of vertical connections and Article 26; see, for a short period of time it is not true. It is not true that the vertical link in Article 26 is prohibited in both directions. No, it's not true, it's a dot! If A can't be owner B, that doesn't mean B can't be owner A. This is the basis of formal logic and reasoning. Even if we justify it with some very savage legal explanation that if one thing is prohibited in one direction, it automatically means that it is prohibited in the other. It just doesn't hold for a second. And to conclude, I'm just going to put forward a procedural proposal. I would like members on the bench to receive the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service whether this article 26, or this law prohibits the vertical link between a bulwark and a pharmacy. The executive branch insists that this is the case. I have paragraph 26 in front of me, five of his provisions, five of his paragraphs. This prohibition of connection is not mentioned in any of the words. The first paragraph of Article 26 speaks of restricting the supply of medicinal products and not giving priority to certain manufacturers of medicinal products, which is all good and good. In fact, the second paragraph defines that pharmacists must not establish, manage, supervise legal entities dealing with medical devices, other treatment support products and so on. The third paragraph further specifies and tightens this provision referred to in the second paragraph for public pharmacies because it prohibits them from owning shares or shares in capital or other investments in legal persons engaged in activities in the industrial manufacture of medicinal products. [[…]] And the fifth paragraph: "The pharmacist shall not be authorised to use the medicinal product." So, where exactly in Article 26, show me, quote me, the ownership of a critter in a concessional private pharmacy is forbidden!? It's not. And since government representatives insist that this is the case, I would like to get an explanation of the Legislative and Legal Service – we can suspend the meeting – at the table of all Members who will either confirm or reject these allegations of the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u33	Since part of it was procedural, however: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has already been given, so that and with this opinion you are all aware of what it contains, what it does not contain, it is not my business to judge. [[…]] Plus, we haven't debated the 26th. We will give it if there is no further interest in Article 4 and the general comments that are common at this point of the debate. So I ask, does anyone else want to discuss Article 4? I'm asking you to sign up. Yeah. I saw that she wanted to sign up, and she wasn't successful at it, but I'll give her my word anyway. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I apologize for my indiscretion because I see that all of my previous debaters have actually discussed the whole law, not just Article 4. Allow me to say a few criticisms in preparation, and this is the law itself. Look, we've been talking at several meetings, and we've been expecting 17 laws from the Ministry in these two years, two and a half years, basically, as many as the government has planned. We got four. And we expected that the Ministry would first tackle the resolution of reform laws, which is said to be systemic laws, not special laws, as we see today with this Act on Pharmacy. And the fact that the Pharmacy Act is a special law isn't my idea, that's what the ZPS said. Before that, my colleague Jani spoke — but I took it that I was saying this in my position because I really mentioned — that there was no profession involved in this marriage. I may have expressed myself a little wrong, she has participated, and this is what I mean by a public presentation of the opinions, 28 stakeholders of the profession have been in this public presentation of the opinions, but their opinions and their views are not taken into account in this proposal of the law, none. I have also raised this question on the home labour body if they can tell me by the Ministry which comments or conclusions from this debate are substantive in this bill and I have not received an answer. I also went to look after the review of the lists, but all the additional amendments that were on this proposal or after the public debate were in line with the opinion of the PSC, which had not yet been taken into account for the preliminary examination. And if you have, respected colleagues from the Coalition for the Professional Institute of Maribor or Mr. Boštjan Brezovnik, which I highly appreciate, I must say, I do not have. It is an expert in other fields, but the healthcare profession is probably a little different. And all these shortcomings in the preparation of the pharmacy law for the first time, we have seen 28 stakeholders, and the profession has pointed to the irregularities or shortcomings of this law. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which states that this law is, of course, a departure from the system laws and that it does not comply with the Constitution. The Constitution, I emphasize. The Commission has also tabled 15 proposals and 15 amendments, four of which have been taken into account, eleven of which are not, and the Commission says that it is of course making reservations to this law. I think that part of the profession is also the Department of Health Insurance, as some employees are there when they could be compared with the profession, and also the Department of Health Insurance has submitted 21 proposals or amendments; three have been taken into account, the rest have not. And the Department of Health also says that the law is unclear, internally inconsistent, in short, inappropriate for further consideration. And once again, this law, which we have before us today, has many open questions, undefined procedures – I think in particular with regard to the establishment of pharmacies – many non-systemic solutions, which the SPS warns about, legal gaps, many of them, there are a lot of shortcomings in the concessions themselves, there is still a unclear way of financing. And I remind you, my fellow Members, that this law is also a violation of free competition and a violation of the European directive, and that is what we are or are already in the process of before the European Commission and this Commission is already collecting data. For so long, I will make my own comments or explanations to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u35	Anyone else who'd like to go to Article 4? No, no, no. I then conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. The government is obviously still insisting that in Article 26 vertical links are completely prohibited between pharmacies and wholesalers, although this is not necessarily true. Now the representatives of the Ministry of Health may read this article and this law very wildly, but this reading goes very contrary to any common sense. If we prohibit the possession of grossites to pharmacies, this does not mean that we have banned the owners or co-ownership of pharmacies. That's not true. The minister said, quote, "if we prohibit in one direction, we have also banned in the other." Of course it doesn't. This is already at odds with the basics of formal logic. And that is why I insist here, just as the Ministry insists on its interpretation of this article, I insist that we suspend the meeting and that the Legal and Legislative Service deliver its position to us on this issue, because it has not actually done so. It's a very complex question, it's a complex law, it's a system law and black on the white answer here we didn't get, unfortunately. Of course, I can also withdraw this procedural part of my debate as soon as the Ministry shows me exactly where it is prohibited in Article 26 to have wholesalers own a private pharmacy or co-ownership. Here, I'm going up now, let them show me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u37	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First of all, I cannot go beyond the debate that our colleague Möderndorfer had before me, who was exposing some things from, I must say, not exactly sincere tendencies. If we know where Jani Möderndorfer used to be and who he may be grateful for his political career and who has the biggest problem with this law, then you can count on the bush where the rabbit lies. And that was his opinion, not the opinion of the Group of Members. That's all I wanted to clear up. Now there you go, buddy Kordish. Of course, when you read the law, the law has several articles and Article 26 is just one of these articles. However, if you read below 27, which says that a public pharmacy institution at the primary level in its territory is a constitutional municipality or several neighbouring municipalities together, according to the previous opinion of the competent chamber and the consent of the Ministry, it is said that a pharmacy can only be set up by a municipality or more municipalities, and here I do not see any legal person in it being able to set up a municipality. As far as Article 39 is concerned, which speaks of ownership or concessionaires, I will, of course, discuss it at that time. With regard to vertical connections, if you read together paragraphs 26 and 27, it is quite clear that vertical connections are prohibited in both directions. That a critter can't set up a pharmacy and that a pharmacy can't set up a critter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u39	Replica, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Even if we read paragraphs 26 and 27 together, it is not clear from this that the vertical link is prohibited in both directions. If anything, it is clear from this argument that Comrade Zorman cannot read.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u41	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss Article 26? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. With this amendment, we propose to introduce the levers of working co-decision and labour control into pharmacies as public institutions. We strongly propose that in the world of the institution employees have the right to one third of the representatives, but as a minimum. If there's anything else wrong with them, we're just saying hello to the United Left. We propose this amendment for two reasons, for a formal and practical reason. It is already formally known under Article 75 of the Constitution that people have the right to co-management and self-determination in the workplace. Due to the specificity of public institutions, this part is also supposed to cover a special law, but this law has never been reached. However, the adoption of the amendment in question would fill this legal void, at least when we are talking about pharmacies. Additional or, if you wish, the practical reason for adopting this amendment is that in practice the representation of employees in the representation of public institutions is very uneven, that it is insufficient and that far from being the best guarantee of transparency and dedicated use of resources is that employees have the right to co-operation and co-decision. The people who work by companies and these public institutions and in pharmacies, as we are now talking about, are those who depend on the functioning of these organizations to feed themselves, their families, so that they earn a fair pay for honest work and so on and, of course, their motivation for responsible management of these organisations is the most organic and lifelike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u43	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. This is where I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors the United Left and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Well, this 39th Article discusses concessions and, of course, the implementation of the concession and the time for the implementation of the concession. The law somehow stipulates that this concession shall be granted between 15 and 30 years, we have, of course, proposed that the concession may be granted for a certain period of not more than 30 years. I'm asking you, what are the criteria that someone who will grant a concession will use to say that a concession can be awarded for 18 years, for 20 years and so on. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u45	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much. With this law, pharmacists will be able to open not only the espionage but also the parts, and then third parties with a semi-equity share can enter these parts. Of course, this is not O.K. because someone who invests in a pharmacy will expect such and such. And pharmacies can only increase their profitability by increasing the volume of drug sales, which means that these medicines will only suffer people down the throat to raise profits for potential investors and co-owners of pharmacies. This will not prevent the excessive use of medicines, thus directly stimulating the excessive use of medicines. And that's why in the United Left we propose here action and prevention of such dynamics, so that a competitive, capitalist activity, if you want, will take over our pharmacy activity. In particular, these provisions become pertinent if our amendment to Article 26 is not adopted, which would prohibit ownership or co-ownership in private pharmacies by large wholesalers. In such a case, the pressure on pharmacies concessionaires will increase absolutely after raising profits and after stimulating the sale of medicines. And these are life's pressures, because someone is addicted to selling as a concessionaire to survive, and eventually puts himself on the mercy and mercy of some of the great pharmaceutical wholesalers. And here, you know, in a situation like this, no codex, and no rules, I don't know what else doesn't help. When people are pushed against the wall and they have to wonder whether survival or doing what is right will usually decide to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u47	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. First of all, why do we introduce the possibility of a private concessionaire operating in the status form of a limited liability company? So far, he has been able to work only in the form of a self-employed or independent entrepreneur. This was evident from current legislation, including by the European Commission, that this is a violation of the rules of the single market and representation and equality on the market. Why? Because of the fact that the status form provides for a different tax treatment, of course the independent entrepreneur has been treated and taxed according to our current tax rules differently than the limited liability company and the European Commission, those who know the procedures, has already launched the so-called pilot project, which is now being introduced before it takes place against the state with the court and with sanctions, cash. For this reason, we are also introducing a possibility of a status form for limited liability companies, in order to, I would say, equalise the functioning of the market from a tax point of view as well. However, of course, we are introducing a basic carrier and also a share that other stakeholders in this society can acquire with limited liability, which must be below 50%. And let me perhaps continue the answers from previous links that somehow relate not only to Article 4 but to Article 26 quite a lot and to these links. Once again, the article states who can set up a public pharmacy. It must be said that if the pharmacy is a public institution, of course it has no shares and that it is not possible to sell or acquire shares in this public pharmacy. However, if you were thinking about a ban on connections, because you claim that it is not sufficiently defined in Article 26, it is necessary to look at the whole law and links in the articles, i.e. the public institution, the pharmacy cannot be sold or cannot obtain ownership of the wholesaler or producer. [[…]] I think that's clear and that you don't have to write this in particular. However, if you had in mind that a private concessionaire, to say, I don't know, some velodrogerist buys this portion in this private, of course there is also this limitation of this majority owner where there must be a pharmacist, and then there is a vertical connection and then there are the same rules as in Article 26.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u49	Anybody else want to discuss Article 39? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We never talked about public pharmacies. Of course, we talked about private pharmacies and concessionaires, which, according to the new ones, can also open a part in which third parties, including legal third parties, can enter the ownership. And here, of course, it is clear that a vertical link is being established and that a vertical link can also be established from the colonists to the pharmacies. And this, I'm sorry that you've been talking for five minutes about how public pharmacies can't be in private solstice, is just plain manipulation. As the manipulation is probably also a warning from the European Commission about the unequal treatment of concessionaires, because the Act on Pharmacy has been in force for 25 years and if the restriction on espionage is disputed, I have no doubt that at that time someone would have challenged it before the Constitutional Court. Maybe it is. What I do know, however, is that the Constitutional Court has not annulled any part of the pharmacy law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u51	Anybody else want to discuss Article 39? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 71 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In general, the law, if I may sum it up. In New Slovenia, for conceptual reasons, we do not come together because we have too many different views, but we will not support the proposal for a law on pharmacy activity. The market, the pharmacy market, will continue to be closed. There is no guarantee that we are going in the direction of deregulation of this activity, but, as I have already said, this activity will remain extremely regulated and there is also no guarantee that accessibility will increase, let alone lower the price of medicines. Because there will be no more competition in this area. Even this competition to get to a lower price for medicines will be no more under this law. However, if I sum up our amendment; in New Slovenia, however, we propose an amendment to Article 71, which adds a new third, fourth and fifth paragraphs, talking about the objection to conscience. In fact, our Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in its 41st Article, stipulates that freedom of conscience is constitutionally regulated and, inter alia, provides that confession of religion and other definitions of private and public life is free, and in its 46th Article - the right to object to conscience - because it is established that the objection to conscience is permissible in cases provided for by law if this does not limit the rights and freedoms of others. In our country, the right to conscientious objection can currently only be exercised in the field of health and military matters. In the health field, if I sum up, in the health field, there is an objection to the Health Act, the Medical Service Act, the Patients' Rights Act and the Medical Deontology Code. Interestingly, pharmaceutical professionals also face situations where they wish to refuse to issue a particular medicine because of their conscience, but this is not possible because of the lack of clarity of legislation in this area. And in Novi Slovenija, we just want to unify this part of the legislation in a well-intentioned manner, as do doctors, so that pharmacists can. And we don't see anything completely wrong here, any more. Where did we get legal practice if you want to prepare this amendment? With the President of the Government, the eminent constitutional lawyer, when he wrote in 1993 about the objection to the conscience: "... it can be analytically shown, in particular as a form of disobedience, which differs from the related types of acts (e.g. civil disobedience) in the fact that the opponent does not wish to appeal to the majority social sense for certain values...". Further, in 2007 Miro Cerar said about his objection to the conscience: "The Treaty of Conscience is therefore a moral duty by its fundamental or authentic nature. The law, which is willing to listen to various objections to conscience, thus shows its humanity by ridding the individual of some of the greatest internal tensions that an individual may at times cause between morality and law. [[…]] But the law can't go too far here. The objection to the conscience can only be allowed in law in a very exceptional way, as the wider legal acceptance of such an objection would be a crime of its own "suicide". Of course, the law must also strive to be as consistent as possible with the prevailing social morality." So, Prime Minister Miro Cerar said this in 2007 and today, as an eminent constitutional lawyer, I believe – who wrote this legal practice – to vote for our amendment in terms of what he once wrote. Our amendment merely unites legislation, a uniform objection to the fact that, like doctors with the possibility of objecting to conscience, pharmacists can also have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u53	I'm asking for an application because it's still an interest. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. You have probably noticed how, not only in Europe, through the back door, some practices we have understood are slowly creeping around the world, and how it is slowly trying to break constitutional standards that seem to be self-sustaining. If someone has not properly understood or has been attentive enough to understand what the amendment made by fellow Vrtovac – we are talking about the constitutionally guaranteed right to freely decide on the birth of children – we can also talk about something else. But colleagues and colleagues from New Slovenia are well enough to know that if they say it out loud in this assembly, such amendments will not receive support, at least not in this reference. And yet, through the back door – something that we understood as a civilization achievement, something that we have also achieved as an emancipation standard – to bring into the pharmacy law and try to bring down, it seems unacceptable to me, and the Social Democrats strongly oppose it. And I think it would be important to have someone else talk about it, even in this congregation. And it would seem important to me, Mr President, to point out these practices yourself here and there, because it is an obvious attempt at how, with a little more artificial speaking, slowly to the degradation of the constitutional standards that we have already achieved. And if each individual’s religion had to make a decision on its own, it must also be said that we are living in a lay country and that the laity of the state is something that has been fought and fought for centuries. And the rights to free birth and to decide freedom sometimes and how, because of his religious beliefs, the pharmacist will say, "no, but I do not want to sell contraceptives in this case", in this country, this century, with everything we know, we cannot and cannot allow. And I sincerely hope that this is the last attempt in this assembly to bring something similar through the back door and to return to the period when the birth of children was the subject of state policies, church interventions or even patriarchal decisions as to how much labour a household needs not to say anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u55	I've seen it. It's an interest to discuss it. Please, for your application. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. It is precisely in this context that this amendment makes sense for everyone to have the right to decide freely, to decide what he will do and to have the right to object to conscience. No one prohibits or prevents anyone from deciding on the birth of their children or of children born, but everyone has the right not to participate and if his conscience tells him so. And our marriage, or amendment, wants everyone who does not agree to do so to have the right to refuse to cooperate. If doctors, soldiers, or anyone else can do this, there must also be an opportunity for those working in pharmacy. And we're not preventing anyone from doing what he wants to do. If some people think abortion is a civilization achievement, I don't think so. For me, it will be a civilizational achievement when we realize that that child is also a human being. This is a civilization achievement for me. But I don't judge anyone who thinks otherwise because the constitution allows him to do so. However, I cannot give my blessing to this, so I have the right to object to my conscience and also to those people who are employed in pharmaceutical activities. Whether the church is separate from the state, every person has the right to object to his conscience, including those employed in pharmacy activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u57	The Order of Procedure has priority. [[…]] Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. If we had listened to Mr Jan Škobernet's debate earlier, he spoke to the entire assembly and that there should be no way of sneaking in here or causing constitutional injustice in any way and that it is unacceptable that in any way there is a violation of constitutional rights, otherwise it is your right to speak, but it is my right to warn the President, procedurally, that someone who consciously by clicking on a button in this National Assembly is violating constitutional rights is the last thing he is saying. [[…]] Of course you won't nod, it's a little boy. Your Honor, the defendant's constitutionally protected right has been reached, and your minister is still sitting in this chair today. So please don't teach this National Assembly about constitutional rights, start with yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u59	Replica, Mr. Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. I absolutely agree with my colleague Bah Žibert, and of course I don't teach anyone anything. I've given my opinion, and I don't think I'm the only one I'm sharing, even though I'm the only one who's defending what I think anyone else in this congregation thinks. However, colleague Ludmila Novak misunderstood me in her work. Freedom of decision about the birth of children is a matter of first a woman, then a family. And we, as legislators, need to be careful when adopting legislation so that we do not prevent what is a constitutional norm. In theory, after the adoption of such an amendment, all pharmacists and workers could refuse the sale of contraceptives. How, then, will we exercise the constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of decision on the birth of children? Of course, we can see that it is very likely that we have moved forward in this country, but at some points, we can assume that this will not happen. But as legislator — we have heard this many times, including on the other side of the congregation — we do not adopt laws for an individual case, but we do so by applying and fulfilling the constitutional spirit or the spirit of constitutionality in all cases. And in this case, it is such an amendment, with all due respect for your view of abortion, which is yours and you will preserve it as I will preserve mine, that this is the right and free right of a woman we cannot write down, can also interpret the ministry, we cannot accept something that will make it impossible for pharmacists theoretically to comply with the constitutional standard. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u61	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u62	It's a beautiful democracy and it's beautiful. But we're looking too narrow, and let's just mention one segment. New Slovenia is fully following the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 41 and Article 46 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. First, freedom of conscience and then Article 46, which speaks of the right to object to conscience. And only about that. And it's the same for doctors. And not only do you drag the raft out now, you can, but it's about objecting to the conscience in other cases. And not only are we looking at this typical – I don't know why SD and Jan – at this typical ideological conflict, because we really don't need to talk about one segment when we talk about our conscience. It is a constitutional right that Nova Slovenija gives to people, pharmacists and pharmacists in this work. The contract of news. If doctors, if they have doctors, including gynaecologists, if you want, they may also have pharmacists. I would like to ask the Minister for the opinion of the Ministry on this proposal from New Slovenia, Madam Minister. We'd like to hear your definition. This amendment is a step forward and follows what the President of the Government said in 2007 and already in 1993 in his legal papers, legal opinions and so on. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u63	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Of course, in this proposal, New Slovenia is not really hiding the right to freedom of conscience and so on, but it is a sexual attack on the civil rights of women who would now like to be disguised as "Novoslovniks" in opposition to conscience, thus pushing our women against the wall, so that where there would be a pharmacist who would be of ecclesiastical origin, women could be denied access to contraceptives and other such material. Yeah, that's exactly what could happen after this proposal. But my procedural proposal actually tanges something else, which I have already pointed out during the debate at the point of this law, namely, I would like to receive an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service before voting on the table, or does the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, in particular in its 26th article, really prohibit all-round vertical links? And where exactly does he do it, and how does he do it? If we are to decide on this law in the next vote, then we must also be aware of what we are actually deciding on. I argue and also quote that there are no restrictions on the ownership of large pharmaceutical wholesalers in concessional pharmacies in this law. And in this position, I insist. On the other hand, representatives of the Ministry of Health claim that this restriction of vertical connection somehow magically exists. So what's true? But the Ministry has magic on its side. I quoted an article from a law that deals with this, but apparently, the contents of their own law are read in a slightly different way in the Ministry. That is why I would like to have a legal interpretation of the Law-Legal Service before the vote, because otherwise we will be subjected to purely some wild legal or wildly questionable interpretations of this law, in an article and in a point that is the most controversial and most problematic and actually speaks of how deeply the interests of the pharmaceutical lobby will penetrate our pharmacy regime and ask people too many medicines to fill their pockets on this account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u65	As in the case of the previous procedural procedure, this was not the case. But in view of the rejection of those doubts, I will read from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on pages 7 and 8 at the beginning: "First and second paragraphs...... of Article 26, which I have added to this, since this refers to Article 26, "... are intended to prevent links between the pharmaceutical operator and the producer of medicinal products or wholesalers (the person who carries out the activity of wholesale trafficking in medicinal products), the second paragraph of which constitutes a deeper infringement of the right referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution, since it also prohibits links with persons who carry out... "that is now on page 8, "... the activity of industrial production of medical devices and other products to support treatment or to preserve health." This is a quote from the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. I think you were looking for that quote. Now I've read it to you. At this point, there's only so much I can do to answer your procedural question. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss Article 71? Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much. However, I would insist on my original proposal simply because of the fact that the representatives of the executive branch of the authorities who claim that the vertical link of a bulwark who owns a pharmacy is prohibited by this law, we simply place it entirely on a lie and that we can explain to them the extensive, extensive, thorough reasons why their claims cannot be tolerated. However, your quote from the original opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on pages 7 and 8, as you yourself said, placed the Ministry of Health on the lie of your colleagues. Because that quote has spoken in a diametric way, which is what the Ministry of Health has been convincing us for two hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u67	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. There's more. There's still time. Then I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u68	Your Honor! Thank you for your word. I could still return to this Article 71 and to the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. I think we're going back to Article 26. The amendment states as follows: "A pharmaceutical professional may refuse to purchase and issue a medicinal product or a product to support treatment and maintain health if he considers that it is not in accordance with his conscience." We have heard variants and speculations that have a more or less solid basis of what Nova Slovenije wanted to bring into law with this amendment. However, if we read the amendment as it is written, I am interested – perhaps the colleagues from Nova Slovenije will explain it – who is the one who, according to his conscience, can refuse to purchase and issue a medicine or a product to support treatment and maintain health? So, what is the conscience of someone who refuses to buy a medicine to support treatment and maintain health? I'm saying it's not about any objection to conscience. I say it's about a person who doesn't have a conscience. And by amending the legislation as proposed in this amendment, I do not know what we are trying to achieve. But if this is some step towards reforming health care, as New Slovenia thinks, then all I can find is that we do not want such pharmaceutical workers, and this is already one of the reasons why we cannot really support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u69	Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I fully agree that this is a package in which Nova Slovenije wants to bring in completely different contents both today and in the past. I will not be so concerned with the opposition to conscience, for it is clear from the Constitution when this objection to conscience can and will not be used. But I will remind you of Article 55 of the Constitution, which states that the decision on the birth of their children is free. And the country, the country, is the one that provides opportunities to realize this freedom and creates conditions that enable parents to decide on the birth of their children. However, I would like to know how you feel that the state would provide opportunities for the exercise of this freedom and create this situation if the pharmacists could simply refuse the issue of contraception, for example. Finally, you need to know that contraception is not only obtained in pharmacies, including gas pumps, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u71	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u72	I really don't understand how narrow we look at our objection to conscience. You just focus on what you see the most that could happen. Why is that? Why? Article 55 of the Constitution is clear and I have no problem with that. We respect the Constitution and we expect respect for the Constitution on the other hand. And we don't want anything but legislation to be unified here. And do not speculate; Mr Zorčič said that what they speculated in Novi Slovenije had some basis. Speculation usually doesn't have a basis, otherwise it wouldn't be speculation, but it would be claims. So I don't understand why you're not going to change that the doctors don't have a conscience anymore. Easy. Doctors. And we only go here by unifying the legislation to have the opportunity to object to both pharmacists and doctors – if doctors have, why don't pharmacists, so to speak. And I don't see any problem here, nor any speculation as to what New Slovenia is thinking about it. New Slovenia follows only Article 41 of the Constitution and follows Article 46 of the Constitution and nothing else. And so once again, I ask the Minister why pharmacists can't object, why doctors can't have, and why they don't respect what the President of the Government writes in their 2007 legal opinions? See, the President of the Government is an eminent legal expert, and at least the SMC Members could know what he wrote about the objection to conscience and if they knew, then this amendment of New Slovenia would be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u73	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Since Mr Vrtovac had earlier wanted the executive authority to define itself before this amendment to Article 71, I say that given that pharmacists are also health workers and that we have this area of objection to have a systematic and comprehensive conscience for all health care activities, including pharmacy activities, for all health workers, this amendment is not necessary, since the legislation already in force makes it possible to enforce an objection to conscience. This is Article 56 of the Health Act, which you have already established. But if it turns out there's anything else to add, it can be done in the deontology code.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u75	[[talking to each other]] I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the 17th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a regulation on drivers within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Therefore, the process of drafting a new driver law started in May 2015 with a public call from the professional and other interested public to submit proposals, comments and new solutions in the field of training of drivers of motor vehicles and additional training of drivers. In cooperation with the Ministry, with local communities, administrative units and the professional and other interested public, a proposal for a new driver law was then drafted, which does not deviate from the basic rules and basic system solutions of the existing Drivers Act in the proposed solutions. By supplementing the Proposal for a Drivers Act, we ensure the transposition of the provisions of the European Driving Licence Directive relating to the definition of categories in the context of the regulation of the number of persons in the vehicle, the regulation of equivalence between categories of driving licences, the arrangements for the replacement of a driving licence issued abroad, the arrangements for refusal or recognition of a driving licence and the regulation of one of the basic requirements for the authorisation of a driver, that is, the normal residence. Penalties shall be laid down for offences in the sense of implementing the European Regulation on common rules concerning the conditions for the performance of the activities of the road carrier. We provide a legal basis for the conclusion of mutual recognition agreements with third countries. We are renewing the provisions governing the functioning of road traffic prevention and training councils at the level of self-government local communities and the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and its authorities. We determine the validity of the certificate whereby a person in the Republic of Slovenia may drive a motor and trailer vehicle of those categories or categories in which the vehicle or group of vehicles which he or she is driving, and the penalty for driving with a certificate that has expired. The provisions governing the training of drivers for drivers in driving schools and the additional training of drivers with the aim of remedying irregularities and abuses in these areas are being renewed and consequently increasing road safety. The provisions governing health checks and medical certificates shall be renewed. The deadline for the replacement of driving licences issued on the old forms is extended from 30 April 2018 to a new deadline of 19 January 2023. Finally, I would like to add that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a drafter of the Drivers Act in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that if amendments to the amended bill are adopted, the third reading of the amended bill will be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u77	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u78	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 24th meeting, on 29. 11. 2016 as a parent working body was considered by the Government's proposal for a driver law submitted to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In the supplementary explanation, on behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, highlighted the basic objectives of the draft law, namely the harmonisation of provisions with European legislation, the establishment of fines for infringements for the implementation of Regulation 1071/2009/EC on common rules, the establishment of a legal basis for the conclusion of agreements on mutual recognition of driving licences with third countries and the renewal of provisions governing the functioning of road safety and education councils and the functioning of the Public Agency for Transport Safety. Key objectives include recasting provisions governing the training of drivers in driving schools and additional training of drivers with a view to improving road safety and recasting provisions that are incomprehensible and create difficulties in implementing the applicable law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that several comments were made in the written opinion of this service to individual articles, which were mostly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, while additional written explanations were provided to the other comments by the applicant. The representative of the Council of State stressed that the State Council supports the proposal for a law. It notes that this does not interfere with the basic solutions of the current law. Regarding the functioning of the worlds and the fines for the illegal transport of goods and passengers, he suggested that the articles should be amended. The discussion focused on Article 30, since both members of the coalition and the opposition expressed opposition to the provision of paragraph 8 of the third paragraph, whereby the professional heads of the driving school at the position of the driving teacher could instruct candidates for drivers in the practical part of the road training programme for a maximum period of 60 hours per month. In their view, such an arrangement would constitute operating restrictions for small-scale driving schools. The provisions of the same Article have also been highlighted, under which driving and driving teachers and professional driving school managers will have to be employed on the basis of a fixed-term or indefinite contract of employment. In the view of some Members, this provision goes back to the detriment of smaller driving schools, and some have expressed the view that this provision is detrimental to the self-employed schools, given that they do not have a harmonised contract for a certain or indefinite period of time. The representative of the Public Agency for Transport Safety of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out that, by implementing the current law allowing for possible conclusion of business contracts, it was intended to allow greater flexibility for the whole industry and in practice that this possibility had been misused in many cases. He pointed out that, for example, business contracts were concluded for the performance of works fulfilling all the elements of the labour relationship, and that due to the large number of commercial contracts concluded and the large number of driving schools, effective inspection was denied. The Committee adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors, the Joint Left and the amendment of Ambassador Primož Hainz. However, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group, the Joint Left and NSI. They have become irrelevant amendments to the SDS and the United Left. The Committee voted on all the articles of the draft law together and adopted them and, in the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure, also drafted the text of the amended proposal of the law you have on the tables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u79	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u80	Dear President, distinguished Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, all together a very nice greeting! The proposed law provides for the transposition of EU provisions of Directive 2006/126/EC which regulates the definition of the category of driving licences, abolishes the equivalence for category D1, regulates the replacement of driving licences, except for verification, refusal of the issue or recognition of a driving licence, normal residence, regulates fines for offences, lays down the legal basis for the conclusion of an agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences with third countries. It also recasts the provisions governing the training of candidates for drivers in driving schools with the aim of increasing road safety, which, of course, entails the regulation of conflicts of interest, namely in Article 10, the written warning and deletion of the driving school from the register of driving schools – Article 20, the conduct of training activities for drivers – Article 28; this is mainly a matter of free movement of services, which also brings free competition within the EU market. However, I would point out the conditions for carrying out an activity in Article 30. This Article lays down unacceptable conditions for the conduct of candidate training activities for drivers and additional training for drivers. For us, the dispute is mainly Article 30, paragraph 8 of the third paragraph. We would certainly be pleased if this would be deleted in this law, because, if this remains so, we consider that this has an extremely negative impact mainly on small schools in the countryside, which also has the effect of reducing the economics of these smaller schools and the effect that these services will also be more cost-effective. We in the parliamentary group, if this change is taken into account, will also support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u81	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! The Drivers Act is a relatively new legislation since it was first adopted in 2010. Nevertheless, we are complementing the law today with extensive and important substantive changes, which represent the amendment of more than a third of the law, so today we are adopting a new driver law. The concept remains comparable to that of the previous law. The solutions to be added, however, ensure to a large extent the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2006/26/EC on driving licences and the fixing of fines for infringements for the implementation of Regulation 1071/2009/EC on common rules concerning the conditions for the performance of the road operator's activities. These provisions relate to the definition of driving licences, the regulation of equivalences between categories of driving licence, categories in the context of the regulation of the number of persons in the vehicle and the arrangements for replacement or refusal or recognition of a driving licence. In this regard, it should also be noted that the Republic of Slovenia has received an official reminder from the European Commission and that it is somehow obliged to implement these provisions of the Directives, which it has been particularly alerted to. However, another area governed by the amendment of the law is the area of training candidates for motor vehicles drivers and additional training programmes for drivers carried out by authorised organisations, where numerous abuses have been identified in the past on the basis of extensive and long-term criminal investigation. The Ministry of Infrastructure has taken some immediate measures, which is enhanced control of driving schools and authorised organisations by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety and the current Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport, Energy and Space, has also taken a decision to upgrade the register of drivers, and has also decided to prepare a new law before us today. Therefore, with a view to improving the quality and transparency of the training of drivers' candidates, the provisions relating to the conduct of the training of drivers' candidates, the conditions for carrying out the activity, the register of driving schools, the deletion of the driving school from the register of driving schools, the provisions relating to the public transport safety authorities, the provisions relating to the practical part of the training of drivers' candidates. In short, it is a series of provisions followed by a recast with a view to some greater transparency and better quality training for drivers. At the time of the introduction of the law into the National Assembly, after examining the law itself, we also found that one provision, however, is controversial, also for the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, which we somehow cannot follow. This is Article 30, paragraph 8, of which we have received warnings from some small schools that the implementation or legalisation of such a condition contained in this point would constitute a loss or inability to operate for smaller schools. This is a special condition, namely that the school must provide an expert head of the driving school, who can teach drivers in the working place of the driving teacher in the practical part of the road training programme for a maximum of 60 hours a month. Even in the light of the warnings of the legislative service concerning this article, as I mentioned at the outset, because of the dispute itself which could prevent competition in this area, we have adopted an amendment in the Modern Centre Party with the coalition to delete this disputed provision, so that the law in the final version of this disputed provision will not have and will be supported in the Common Modern Centre in the Member State as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u83	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u84	Dear President, distinguished minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, everyone else present, welcome! We have before us a discussion of the last law of the so-called troika, which was discussed in the adoption of the Motor Vehicle Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act, where it was then repeatedly exposed to the need to be adopted in a package. The minister fulfilled his promise and prepared all three laws by the end of this year, or just before the end of the year, but still kept his promise. The applicant states that the new Drivers Act provides for the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2006/126/EC on driving licences relating to the definition of categories in the context of the regulation of the number of persons in the vehicle, the regulation of equivalence between categories of driving licences, the arrangements for the replacement of driving licences, the arrangements for refusal or recognition of driving licences and the regulation of all requirements relating to one of the conditions for issuing a driving licence. In addition to the harmonisation provisions of the Directive, the proposed law also amends and complements the content of the candidate training areas for motor vehicle drivers in driving schools, the implementation of additional training programmes for motor vehicle drivers, the professional and inspection supervision of driving schools and the operators of additional training programmes, the electronic management of data needed to issue a driving licence in one place and the conclusion of an agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences with third countries. The proposed law also amends and complements provisions which, due to a vague or questionable record, cause problems in the implementation of the law: carrying out checks on health, the validity of medical certificates on checks carried out, the conditions for obtaining a driver’s licence, the implementation of the driver’s additional training programme and provisions preventing users from playing the system. In order to ensure the safety of drivers of single-wheeled motor vehicles, the proposal for a new law provides that the additional training programme should be attended by a beginner who has a permanent or temporary residence in the Republic of Slovenia and has completed a driving licence in the Republic of Slovenia and has obtained a driving licence for motor vehicles of category A2 or A and B. The proposal of the law also extends the period to which driving licences need to be replaced. The current 30 April 2018 deadline for the replacement of driving licences issued on old forms is extended to 19 January 2023. All these good professional solutions required by the directives and practices so far are well resolved in the bill. But there are some open questions and concerns. Professional associations and, above all, the owners of small schools point out in particular Article 30 of the bill, which introduces work for driving teachers on the basis of a fixed or indefinite period of work. The proposal for a law excludes the possibility of undertaking contracts or works under a contract. The law also requires schools to drive an employed professional head of school on the basis of a fixed or indefinite period of employment. Once again, the obligation to employ a professional manager poses a major problem for smaller schools. These provisions of the bill are also disputed from the point of view of the Labour Relations Act, the Economic Companies Act, and also constitute a direct intervention in constitutional rights, or 74th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of a free economic initiative. Therefore, support for this law will be linked to the support of our proposed amendment to Article 30 of the Act. The amendment solves the problem of small school as well as possible unconstitutionality. The same solution is proposed by Nova Slovenija and support for this amendment is also the key to supporting the law. If you are supported by the amendment, we will continue to support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u85	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! The proposal for a driver law is a new law that has been drawn up at the competent ministry for the last two years. There are several reasons for the reform of the law. One of them is compliance with European legislation. On this basis, fines for infringements under the Common Rules Regulation and the legal basis for the conclusion of mutual recognition agreements with third countries shall be laid down. The second reason for the reform of the law was that, at the end of 2013, abuses were detected in the field of driving schools of authorised organisations implementing additional training programmes for drivers of beginners and drivers and in the field of the issue of driving licences. The Ministry of the Interior drew attention to the abuses, which carried out a comprehensive and long-term criminal investigation. This showed that the suspects abused the original certificate of the examination centre for the driver’s examination; according to the domestic statement, the suspects forged the above certificates. By that time, the competent ministry had responded promptly with increased supervision of the schools and had decided to upgrade the register of drivers and to amend the Drivers Act — all with a view to preventing further irregularities and abuse. The upgrade of the register was already implemented in September 2014 and the amendment of the law had to be waited until this year. The bill therefore conveys in particular important innovations in the field of supervision of driver education. There are much more transparent conditions for the operation of schools, as all instructors will have to be in a regular working relationship. So far, for example, one person has been able to teach through a contract in different driving schools, making it difficult to control. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the bill amends the Public Agency for Transport Safety to an agency which, finally, we hope, will be more effective, given that it is empowered by new powers to withdraw the licence to carry out the activities of the driver education programmes in the event of serious infringements. To date, they have not been able to withdraw their powers until the school did not meet the basic operating conditions. Another major change is the proposal in the field of business authorisations. If a new licence is withdrawn to a legitimate representative or professional manager, that person shall not be allowed to operate for three years. In the past, however, the manager lost his business permit, but the driving school or the company then formally took over a close relative and continued to do the work itself. This was also one of the irregularities detected in the investigation already mentioned. The draft law also specifies more precisely the procedures for withdrawal of the driver's licence and re-acquisition. If the law is adopted, it will also be easier to prescribe a mandatory health check for serious infringements of road traffic regulations. Otherwise, the other novelties of the law relate to compliance with the requirements of the European Union, which are of a more administrative nature. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that we have all listened together to representatives of small schools who have warned that the provision in article 30 of the law, which limits the school’s professional manager to only 60 hours of practical work for teaching candidates, brings inequality to small schools compared to larger ones. Therefore, on the basis of these warnings, we have deleted this provision from the proposal for a law. Let me conclude our Group's position by expressing my support for the bill on behalf of the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u87	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We therefore have before us a law which, in its core framework, does not change the substance and meaning of the law that is currently in force, but, in an important part, updates it, aligns it with the European normative framework and, above all, improves the dictions and mechanisms that have proven more difficult or problematic in terms of allowing abuses to take place in order to prevent the implementation of the basic purpose of this law. They are therefore updated in short terms, which mainly regulate the training of drivers' candidates, address the operation and work of driving schools and, as has already been said, the implementation of the European Directive. Despite the fact that the law is well prepared and that it is a matter of, perhaps even a logical update of the legislation in force, a considerable debate has led to a provision which in some ways tried to restrict the existence, work and competition of small schools to larger schools in the country. This is happening several times and an important message from the second reading of this law is that this assembly does not want to limit free economic initiative and that in small schools, as well as in small businesses, we see an opportunity rather than a threat to large, better developed ones. This also needs to be seen in view of the necessity of a balanced regional development and the fact that in Slovenia it is not only a large centre, it is also a rural area, even if you want, a periphery. Above all, there has been a practice there that has shown that large schools have been less concerned or should have been active, and that is why important work and good work have been done by small schools. Therefore, we social Democrats are pleased that this law, which we have today on the table, makes it possible and where it is also necessary to regulate the work of the school in a way that enables both competitiveness and quality and co-existence of both large and small. The fact is, for example, that the issue of the accessibility of licensed establishments for the execution of the medical work service remains open. This issue has also been raised on the Committee and this issue must also be addressed. For at present, equal or equal access – including from the point of view of the coster – is not regulated equally by everyone in the country because of the relative distance of these institutions. However, this is no reason to oppose this amendment of the law. And the Social Democrats understand this as just one of the challenges ahead. No matter how the law is written and no matter what quality control and traffic safety mechanisms we introduce into any of the three formerly appointed, this does not reduce the fact that we must address in particular the issue of the awareness of citizens and citizens – on the one hand the necessity of safe traffic participation and, on the other hand, that no abuse, including legal loopholes, must be a standard or an option when we want to build a community. Because abuse — both the school and the counterfeiting of permits, including medical certificates — did not occur because the marriage would be badly written, but because we are still not sufficiently aware as a community that it is simply wrong. And this must also be a key message of this law, which, as has already been said, will be supported by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u89	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! The laws coming from the government parties to the National Assembly in this mandate are, as a rule, shot with lobbyist interests. In particular, when it comes to regulating the business of companies where large players are usually in the market as a matter of priority. It is not surprising that such a gap was originally also in the proposed amendment of the law. But about this a little later. The Drivers Act represents a complete overhaul of the old law, as has already been said, which is necessary, as we recall how many abuses in the implementation of training programmes for drivers were identified in a comprehensive criminal investigation three years ago. With immediate action, a decision has also been taken to upgrade the register of drivers, to amend the Drivers Act with the aim of remedying irregularities and abuses. This is the subject of this law when the provisions of the European Directive are introduced. One of the measures of stricter supervision is the provision that school driving instructors must be employed for a certain or indefinite period of time, which we, of course, welcome in the United Left. This will not only ensure a higher quality of training for drivers and greater transport safety, but will also ensure greater social security for all who have done this work to date in the criminal form of employment. And in this light, it is a shame that the SMC and the so-called Social Democrats want to amend this provision so that driving instructors can still work as espies, in short, to allow for the continuation of this forced espionage or the finesse of driving instructors. The text of some articles of the law clearly shows that large schools – the strongest within the Association of Driving Schools at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia – had an important word in writing the law, of course for their benefit. One of these provisions, which everyone has mentioned before me, is the restriction on the part of the school’s professional head in the position of driving teacher to 60 hours a month. It has already been said what this would mean for smaller schools – not only in the countryside, but also in some small urban centres where driving is taught, for example, one or two employees. Small schools would close down, big players would stay. The representative of the Association of Autocultues of the Chamber of Commerce himself acknowledged, at the examination of the home body, that such an arrangement seemed meaningful to him, where he had also clearly demonstrated, where and in whose interest this restriction came into law. and in the ZL we have proposed deleting this provision and we are pleased that this was then also adopted on the committee itself. However, the privileges of high school in marriage remain. How? On a proposal from the GZS, the Minister of Justice will prescribe the minimum hourly heading of the driving school. Such a provision will further undermine expensive training for drivers. The argument is that this will increase quality, but only a high price is not what would in itself guarantee quality. This is ensured by the consistent implementation of this and thus improved law and regulations. Even today, many socially endangered people are sadly unable to afford a driver’s license. This also reduces their employment opportunities and, as a result, their ability to dig themselves out of poverty. Therefore, in the United Left in the amendment, we propose to set the maximum price — in short, the upper hourly item — on the proposal of Umar, which carries out analyses on the situation in our country and society, and to adopt this amendment, we will also bind our own support for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u91	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u92	Messengers and Members, good afternoon! The proposal for a regulation on drivers sent by the Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia imposes new requirements and burdens for the operation of schools in the Republic of Slovenia. Christian Democrats strongly remind you that many driving schools will be forced to close their doors. The result, of course, will be that people who have so far been involved in teaching driving will be left without bread simply because of government experiments that prevent people from working. The adoption of the law will also bring a new blow to smaller places where driving schools do not have much permanent work and adapt their activities accordingly through the use of business contracts. Citizens will have to drive from a distance to larger city centres where the services will be offered by larger driving schools. Representatives of the government coalition argued at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space that the bill would have no implications for smaller driving schools. This, of course, is not true, so we call on the Government to make a comparison within one year of the number of driving schools that will be open at that time, with the number of motorways that are open today. This will tell you all the effects this law has had. Slovenia is one of the countries with the most stringent working arrangements. Instead of moving away from this hard regulation of labour law, the Government is also transferring this unsustainable practice to the functioning of the school. Unfortunately, many of us cannot help but feel that these attempts to limit the operation of smaller schools of driving stand in the lobby of larger schools who want to transfer part of the small school business by strengthening regulation. If this is not the reason for the adoption of this law, there will certainly be consequences. In the past, amendments to the Regulation on test centres for driving examinations for motor vehicles that have occurred in recent years have also been made. These changes have already prevented many places from conducting driving examinations, which has diverted candidates to larger driving schools in larger urban centres. To illustrate, for example, I can say that after all these government regulations adopted, the citizens of Bovec, Kobarid and Tolmin will have to drive to Nova Gorica to perform the driving test. Do you think that's necessary? Certainly not, and it's not normal. In the area of transport, the government coalition has recently been doing much to increase the tightening of the legislation. The bill, which is now on the table, obviously follows the novelties of the Road Traffic Rules Act and the Motor Vehicle Act, which introduced the so-called 'twenty-five'. The new disproportionate financial and bureaucratic burdens brought by this registration are totally unacceptable for New Slovenia. Also unacceptable is the additional regulation of the operation of the school as set out in this bill, which is before you today. Because of everything that has been said in New Slovenia, we predict that we will vote against the Drivers Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u93	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss it? I'm guessing yes. Dr. Franz Ducky, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. As I said at the presentation of the position, we come from the fact that, let's say, the average cost of exam for B category according to the number of hours averaged, if I say so, is about a thousand. In the committee debate, there was a lot of talk about the lowest prices, about how some schools are dumped, do not perform quality such services but, you know, this is the area of implementation of legislation and inspection services. [[…]] In the proposed law, Slovenia's Chamber of Commerce is supposed to set a minimum price; in view of this story that we have now heard, of course, the question is also personally asked whether the Chamber of Commerce represents the entire economy or only large players in each sector. We had a similar problem in chimney legislation, in funeral activities, in a certain area of oligopolisation or somewhat more domestically, to elevate smaller entrepreneurs, craftsmen, if you want to, as a rule, operate in smaller places, which are usually already peripheral at infrastructure level, but if you want, you could go all the way to the level of calculation of averages, which unfortunately also applies to Maribor. Therefore, somehow in our amendment, we return this pingpong ball to the Government, the short-term responsibility of the executive is to set the maximum price of the hourly item and in doing so we propose a basis for analysis, findings of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, whose tasks are to monitor, analyse and evaluate current trends and developments in this society and country. And of course, as I said before, we will tie our vote on the whole law to the adoption or non-admission of this amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it with article 14? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, the amendment of the NSI Group of Members and the amendment of SMC and SD. I see we already have our first debater. Mr. Guilty, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! It is clear that this amendment to Article 30, which we have tabled, will also be supported. In fact, it solves the matter, which we have discussed in some way also on the labour market, it is said that it also allows employment through business contracts or so-called espionage. We are solving this matter both in the second paragraph and in the third paragraph. The same applies to the amendment of New Slovenia, which we also support, which will be voted on as others. However, I see that, according to the debate on the committee, the coalition has also tried to approach this solution in some way, because they have also found that the current solution in the law limits so-called small schools of driving or singing, and now they are also talking about adding self-employed persons or espionage. It is true that they did not pay attention when they read the third paragraph and did not correct the second part of this paragraph, which says that these works are being carried out.I will read the whole article or the whole third paragraph: "In order to carry out the training activities of candidates, the driving school must also provide the professional head of the driving school, who has the valid driving licence for the professional head of the driving school and works on the basis of the contract of employment for a certain or indefinite period of time with full-time work... " [[…]] Here you also added self-employed, which is welcome, but you left "...and only one driving school." This means that the professional leader, who was usually for several espouses or for more small driving schools, since the professional manager does not have to work 184 hours, you have still limited him in this way and have thus simply cut off the possibility of carrying out this activity to espam and to small driving schools. So I appeal to all of you, to the coalition, given that you have listened to our debate on the committee and you yourself have found that the matter is problematic from the point of view of small schools of driving and espionage and you have tried to resolve it with your amendment, but obviously in this professional work you do not have enough experience and have not corrected the article as you obviously wanted, because you have still left this restriction to anyone who actually prohibits doing any professional activity more than in one school, which means that the matter in practice is impossible, and since it was your desire to resolve it because the law as such I have also said in my implementation that it brings good solutions. [[…]] It brings, I would say, positive changes in this educational work as well as in supervision. However, both ourselves and our parliamentary group cannot agree to restrict some practice in Slovenia, which is carried out through small schools of driving and espionage. And if we don't fix this article, that's exactly what we're doing. One more time. You wanted to fix this, but your amendment does not entirely solve this issue because you did not delete this text, namely "only in one driving school". So please consider the decision to support our or the amendment of New Slovenia, which fully solves this issue and also allows the current small schools to drive and sing to continue this activity. If we confirm your amendment, we can't solve anything because you've limited the matter to just one driving school or, if I'm more direct, one espionage. But you know that we have discussed this, that one professional leader does not have enough hours at the monthly level to meet this quota at only one driving school, if it is small. And it was a common practice for someone as a professional manager to work in a number of individual small driving schools or to be a professional leader in the case of multiple espionage. Unless we delete it, we have done nothing, so I propose some sense on your part, because I see that it was your will to resolve it together, and thus give us the opportunity to all support this law, which is essentially technical and right not to bring any unnecessary administrative obstacles. Finally, it brings, as you have now written down, the possibility that someone will also consider this in terms of constitutionality and the right to manage an activity smoothly. We have already pointed out on the committee itself that these solutions actually give priority to large driving schools. We know that large driving schools are in large centres and you are again trying to introduce some centralisation into this place, which we repeatedly and repeatedly warn that it is not good and that it is necessary to leave the periphery, that it has certain activities and that it can carry them out and that we must not interfere with the legislation. So I suggest that you consider and support either our or the amendment of New Slovenia, which fully resolves this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u97	The Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I would like to say, in relation to these amendments proposed under Article 30, that the Ministry and thus the Government do not support the amendments which have been transposed by the SDS and New Slovenia, because in this case what would actually be happening is what we want in some way with the desire to ensure the appropriate quality and expertise of the work in the schools so as to make it impossible for some of these contracts to be signed by the professional leaders and thus the inability to perform quality work in a particular school. We support the amendment proposed by the SMC and SD, so that within one school it is possible to say espa can be in several functions – that is, the professional head of the school, the driving instructor and so on – but not that someone in the role of the professional head of the school can perform this function in just a number of other schools. In short, we want to limit this with the desire to ensure adequate quality of work in schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u99	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I'll call you back. When I listen to this, I think in this direction: we are often too smart for politicians because we go to the field too few times. Why am I saying this? Or should I say otherwise, I usually say that if we have a mouth, sometimes I also say a mouth, it's good that we have ears and eyes. In the last month, I have been dealing mainly with traffic issues, especially the problem of not providing minimum social security if you want, truck drivers, bus drivers, taxi drivers, including drivers. From what has been said, what my colleague Dani said before me, I will try to explain it in some human language. Here, even yesterday at midnight, I discussed this with some of the people in the smaller driving schools. Here we have a problem that might be a little bit like that nurse story. You have a nurse who, as some say, only has high school and then gets hit on the head. But she can have decades of experience and she can, and I wouldn't want to be unfair to doctors, just by the color of the patient, she knows what's going on. And a similar story is here; we have people who have high school, who have secondary education, and now have no formal education to be the school leaders. And that's some problem you forget. All of these three amendments, and all of these three amendments, in fact, alone and the United Left, I can't support because they're kind of following the logic of "auto-auto". As a result, we will continue to espouse and many people working in this area will still have difficulties in providing some minimum social security. I turned over a number of phones last night, and the proposal of the people from these high schools was that the matter should be amended – at most in two schools – which would somehow solve the problem of some people who are 60 years old there, in short, who have another half a decade to their pension if we didn't cook something for them in this byte, and somehow someone could be the school manager in one and in the other, and would somehow solve this problem. My suggestion would be not to rush into the third reading at this meeting; let's sleep through it, think about it and solve it in a way that we can solve this problem and at the same time do not push this problem further into some area of transport, where we also have a number of problems due to the staffing and other malnutrition of the transport police due to our transport non-culture, so that we will not, at the same time, make it an excuse that we will continue to push people into some of what we usually say, forced espelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u101	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Where do I start? Tonin, a colleague from New Slovenia, said that the law rejects it. He saw him, I don't know, a whole bunch of flaws, to support some sort of bigger school to prevent competition, to mean some centralisation, some worse future for smaller places. Of course that's not true. It's completely made-up. There's no basis. We need to know that the examination driving centres and this distribution of these schools are somehow the most predestined by the rules on exam centres and where these practical and theoretical parts of exams can be conducted. As far as the evidence is concerned, the law prefers large auto schools; I have also mentioned this in the position of our Group of Members. As far as these concerns as we have already identified in the Group of Members are concerned, we have taken this matter seriously and this main concern has been, and the school has also warned about this, is the dispute point 8 of the third paragraph of Article 30, which we have deleted with the amendment. That point is one that makes it impossible, I'm going to say, to small schools, some normal business, and even to those auto schools where the school is one person who is espa. Such ones have also been warned of this. We, when discussing within the parliamentary group on this arrangement, have taken a position, why would such a person be prevented from doing any future business, why not, I will say, a market developed in this part too, why not start a school in such a way that first, I don't know, someone as a self-employed entrepreneur, if successful, will be able to hire anyone else, open a part of it, however. After all, even in some other professions, I don't know, with a hairdresser, we don't have a stipulation that he should have no idea what conditions and that he should have no idea how many employees. And, I will say, the warnings about this same article by the Legislative and Legal Service are also entirely in place that this part is somehow a denial of the right to a free economic initiative. As far as Articles 2 and 3 are concerned. Comrade Trček spoke of some type of pre-arrangement, espection; I am aware of all these concerns about pre-arrangement and similar, but the provision we have made now in this last amendment is not intended to promote any pre-arrangement, but to continue to do those especies that work as they do now and that actually combine all these functions after the 30th article in one person. Because if we throw these espas out, then they won't be able to work anymore, and in fact, we're going to have to close more of these schools. It is therefore a definition of the third or, for example, the second paragraph: "In driving schools, only drivers and regulatory teachers who have valid permits to do this work and who carry out their work under a fixed or indefinite contract of employment may be trained." So if the driving teacher is an independent entrepreneur, then, according to our assessment, after that first rule of law, he should no longer perform this work, he should hire someone on the basis of a contract of employment for a fixed or indefinite period of time. Colleagues from the SDS have also tabled an amendment in relation to this second and third paragraph dictatorship. I do not think that this amendment is good, that it actually means exactly what we have also pointed out at the meeting of the working body, that it will also be determined by this amendment that some may still work through civil contracts, but that the work of the espam will be disabled, to those who combine these functions in one person. In short, if I mention the third paragraph: "In order to carry out the training activities of candidates, the school must provide the professional head of the driving school......" According to your guidance, it will have to be done through a fixed-term employment contract, indefinite time, but you say it under a civil contract, and we say it not under a civil contract, but even if it is self-employed, so if it is espa, and we already have a whole line on the market today. We think that this arrangement of ours is significantly better. Why are we against civil contracts? I can join my colleague, Trčku – for reasons of overreach, I can join Mr Minister – because in the past it has been found that the professional leaders have worked for this, the one, the other, the third school, but that the auto school itself has not met half the conditions and that there has actually been a lot of manipulation in this area, and many irregularities have been identified. As far as the school structure is concerned, you might want to mention something else. The minister said why the diction remained. Comrade Krivec, there is no shortage of experts in the parliamentary group, why we stayed in this dictatorship, "only in one driving school". The Minister answered that question. There's no coincidence, no mistake. This is one basic relationship we have, the fundamental relationship we have with this law and the area it regulates. In particular, we must be aware that the law governs the functioning of the school. I'll say, in a way that some authorized organisations do, let's say, private entities. We don't have public education. And given that it is the training of applicants for drivers, for transport, for transport safety, the regulation of this area also entails a certain public interest, which is that some conditions are a little more stringent. This is followed by the Ministry's proposal, and we, I will say, also in this article and in this sentence, which has been mentioned, accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor, Mr. Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u104	If anyone listens to this debate, he probably does not understand what we are talking about. That is why one such framework needs to be made now, why such things have become more complicated. The government or the minister came to this Parliament with a bill in which he stipulated how many hours the professional head of the school had to spend in his office, which was a lot of stupidity and thank God, thank you, coalition, you missed it and at the very meeting of the Infrastructure Committee you corrected this thing yourself with the amendment because this matter was settled. That's a good thing. And the other part of the problem was that this minister also wanted to prescribe precise forms of organisation or, if you want, a precise working legal relationship as to how certain things would run at the school. I think it's stupid, I think it's some kind of nonsense that you don't trust your own government, your own government authorities don't trust their own inspection services. We or this country already have certain rules on how to organise work in schools. If irregularities have occurred, appropriate action should also be taken against these schools. Every thing just doesn't solve the change of law. Sometimes a matter needs to be resolved by strictly and effectively implementing the law that has been passed. But here too, the coalition must be acknowledged that it has made only one small step forward. Even on the committee, I think they argued very much that it is necessary to insist that these teachers at the school should only be employed indefinitely or for a certain period of time. But there was also a movement there, and now even the coalition itself proposed an amendment because they say it would also be possible to work through espionage. And now if I jump on our amendment, what does our amendment say? Our amendment states that it is the teachers who can do so at school and can do so by those who have the right permission to do this work and work on the basis of a contract of employment or a contract of employment. For some normal country, that's more than enough. More than enough! And then, of course, under this provision, for each school, things can be organised in a way that suits them best. They will have employees somewhere for an indefinite period of time, somewhere for a certain period of time, somewhere espaying, somewhere on land contracts – as things are most optimized, if I may say so, because the schools are very different. You have small auto schools in small places where even a school can't afford a lot of employees, and even teachers may not have enough work to work in just one school for 8 hours. And then they put things together with work in a number of different schools. And I don't understand the government and not the government coalition, why would they restrict these things to people and tell them how to organize themselves. However, I have understood that this government coalition also has something that allows free economic initiative and people to decide for themselves what is best for their work. And I'm going back again. We do have regulations, we have legislation that lays down a lot of things. Look, Member Trček was talking about precaration. I agree. That's definitely the problem. But today in this country there is legislation – if you have an espouse who practically think that more than 80% of some work is done with one and the same entity, that means that the signs of a regular working relationship and the matter is already in the current law that there is no scientific fiction to be discovered here, but that means that that school of this person should be employed for a certain or indefinite period of time, dot! Existing legislation. And there are also cases in other areas, such as copyright restrictions, business contracts and so on. And if our own country respected its laws, those things you're proposing now would be ridiculous. Really. And so I think it's pointless to write down something that will once again be a dead letter on paper, if this is not done in practice, and I hope that our amendment will be adopted, that no one takes anything, but also allows autoschools and teachers a little more flexibility and opportunities to adapt to the conditions that apply in a particular environment. And once again, we're just suggesting that a teacher can be someone who has all the permission to do it and who does it on the basis of a contract of employment or a contract of work. I think that's more than enough. However, a contract of work may also be your proposal for espionage or something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u105	Daniel Krivec, you have the floor. I'm sorry, Dr. McKinley's replica. Franz Runczek, then Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u106	Yes, thank you for your word. I'm going to replicate Mr Tonin, even though I could replicate Mr Zorčič. However, we know that this country is not a normal country. I'm sorry. Mr. Zorčič said there was some kind of overstatement. I know people in Parliament – my colleague Tonin, you have been here for a long time – who have been forced into forced espionage and have been employed here, and they are doing 100% of the work in this Parliament. In this Parliament, students are "shooting" for a minimum. A lot of these problems of forced espection could easily be solved by this, here I agree that we would implement our legislation, but when we wanted to amend in the budget the increase in the number of work inspections by 50%, there was a kind of resistance – there was no money for it. It would be very easy to resolve this, and this is my personal opinion to set a minimum hourly net item in this country. In order to determine then the minimum items per sector. But obviously, I'm afraid we're not going to make it in this call from the National Assembly. And my job as the opposition, and even if you want, with the ideological position that I come from, is that by saving something, we're not saving something else. We are not dealing with these so-called forced espections, which are even worse in other areas. Do you know why I'm saying this? We have recently listened for one hour — and I think it is now well-intentioned — to give a lecture to our Commissioner, who covers the transport sector in the European Commission, and said that in 2017, one of its priorities will also be to regulate the social situation of employees in the sector. And we have here one very, very serious problem that we have to deal with, and I also point to it within this law. And of course we have to move on, now I'm a little bored with myself, from this logic of "auto-auto" to the logic of "in-and". We also need to solve the problem of small schools and problems, as I mentioned earlier, professional guides and the problem of non-forced espections, if I may say so. And we can successfully solve all of this in the third reading if we don't get him halfway through this session now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u107	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you again. Thank you, Minister for your answers. In fact, he confirmed what both colleague Trček and colleague Tonin have done now. The applicant himself wrote in his explanation that he justified this requirement by a large number of contracts concluded on land and a large number of driving schools and thus prevented effective inspection of the operation of driving schools. This was the justification that was written in the paper. Now I wonder what the problem is. Powers to drive and drive a school are given by the agency or the ministry. On the other hand, the Ministry now says it can't control it. Then we need neither the ministry nor the agency, but we will save the whole marriage because we will write that small espies must no longer be, that small schools of driving must no longer be and that large schools of driving will no longer be supervised or supervised in the middle of Ljubljana. That's what you're saying in your own explanation. In fact, we are opposed to the fact that the state is only by law solving some problematic situation that is identified after a few years because some controls are not carried out, while the same institution gives permission to individual small schools or to espouse them. It is said that this does not solve in terms of changing the law of this problem, which you point out in your writing. Anomalies are still going to happen, someone is going to play things — whether it's going to be big or it's going to be small school, it doesn't change that. However, it substantially changes this article’s condition that someone can do so at all. And by doing so, you actually take the right to work to these small schools or to espies operating on the periphery, however you turn. Because if such conditions are written in, they can no longer implement them. And that has nothing to do with whether or not the controls have been performed. However, I hope that, or in the next time we vote on these amendments, we will support our or the New Slovenia Amendments, which are practically identical and resolve this in general, or, later in the third reading, we will complement this amendment, which will solve this issue in the sense that we do not restrict justice to those self-employed and small schools that actually operate outside a large pool of these listeners and also carry out their activities in accordance with all the legislation and quality. I've asked the agency several times before to give information about whether or not the schools were doing a bad job, and we don't get this information. I don't think we get them because most of the little espies that do it on the periphery do it with some clear awareness that they have to do it qualityly. But there are a lot more anomalies within large schools, and that's all you can confirm. And given that we don't get data on where the anomalies come from inside the school, that fact is even more evident. And now you would like to hide the matter in some way in this way, saying that within large auto schools and some professionals who will oversee it in larger systems, the matter is resolved. We've solved this with the marriage, and it's going to go well. There's not a single piece of data on the table when we ask the boards. So I suggest you support our amendment, which solves the matter and leaves the matter open in this direction, but if you oppose it, I do not think that support for this law will be on our side.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u109	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, get Mr. Ljubo Žnidar ready for him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u110	Has there been an irregularity in high school so far? They did. And here we probably all agree, both in the opposition and in the government coalition or minister. Is there a pre-carcation in high school? We can also agree here in the opposition and also in the government coalition or minister. But the solutions are slightly different. The Minister sees a solution in that he will accurately prescribe the forms of work allowed in these schools, we do not believe in this and we are committed to better control of the operation of these schools. Just a regulation of part of the problem won't solve it. Therefore, it seems pointless to us that because of some bad cases, unfair cases in some way, we are making it particularly impossible for smaller schools to organise themselves as optimally as possible. And that's the key point we want to pursue with this amendment. And once again, I believe that there will be no minister and no coalition and no one will lose anything if this amendment of ours is adopted. Of course, in particular in the executive branch, it will then be important to exercise strict control over the implementation of the legislation adopted. As for Ambassador Zorčič, he is a Member for special tasks anyway. If you remember how excited he was about registering 25s. This has been an amazing job, and it is likely that citizens will be very grateful in the coming years when these little bikes will have to drive to registration and will certainly remember it, and it takes a kind of courage to do these things. And here, too, I think that Member Zorčič – and here I feel sorry for him – has to perform an unpleasant task because he has to defend meaningless things or things that are unnecessary. And such tasks are never grateful and pleasant.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u111	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u112	It is a debate, Mr President. [[...]] I will abstain from these comments. It is interesting, however, that only my colleague Tonin and I meet each other in one and the same darkness. I might define myself to this amendment of yours, which is traditionally similar to the amendment of the SDS Group. Now you say, "In driving schools, only drivers and regulatory teachers who have valid work permits and work are allowed to train candidates on the basis of a contract of employment or a contract of work." The question you're not answering I understand what you're saying – why not work for others through a contract? [[…]] But your amendment doesn't answer the question, what if it works for itself? for the second, O.K. We said, we are limiting work for others because in practice such and such weaknesses have proved to be. This area is important, it is safety in transport, we have again an increase in the number of accidents, the dead in traffic. It's right that we have the system in place. The other thing is, I also agree on whether or not control is taking place, but not least, these conditions for the establishment of an auto school, if you ask me, are not so difficult, nor with this new law. And, I'll say, here, competition is still very possible and even in some smaller centers. But what I want to stress is: if we accept your amendment, which you say is great, and ours is bad, then these espions, which are in the same function as driving teachers and regulatory teachers, will no longer be able to work. That's the difference. We have said, however, that these may also continue to work as self-employed persons, because you do not allow self-employed persons to perform these functions in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30 as well as the third paragraph. That's the difference. That's why we think our amendment is better. However, as regards this freedom of exercise for others, we join the Ministry, but in the light of past experience, there must be a limit.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u113	The word Replica, mag. Matthew Tonin. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u114	Ambassador Zorčič misunderstood me in the work where he claims that I said the coalition amendment was bad. I didn't say he was bad. I just said that it's a step forward, but it's not what it could be, it's saying that they would give people purely free hands and free will. From that first draft of the law, a coalition with this amendment continued to allow espionage or self - employment. This was not the case in the basic version, so I can't say that this amendment sucks or is bad. Just like you said. All I'm saying is that our amendment is better, and that's why it's acceptable. And even that explanation you gave doesn't hold. Our amendment is written in a way that eventually concludes very general and refers to all contracts of work, which may be all that our Slovenian labour law knows. Even the ones you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u115	Mr. Zorčič, a debate. [[turn off microphone]] But I'll give my word first to Mr. Love the Žnidar, who's waiting, and then I'll give it to you. Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I think this marriage itself brings as good as, I'd say, some bad solutions. And this time I'm going to touch the coalition amendment, because the work of the driving school's professional manager limits it to work in only one school. Now I'm going to ask, what's the difference if the professional head of the school works half-time in two schools? What's the difference? However, I believe that there have been chain irregularities or, say, a case where he had a professional leader, I don't know, 500 hours contracts that we know he can't make. It's a matter of control. Because this restriction of yours, I would say, is a strong intervention in internal organisation and rationalization of schools. Did you ask yourself what would happen? With such restrictions, driving schools or examinations will be 100 % affected by restrictions. It's like restricting a professor in college to study at one university only. That he can't study in two colleges. It's the same case. It's the exact same case. Why can't he study in another college if they need him, I don't know, just four hours a week? You're restricting it to work in just one school. Why? In order for a small school of driving to be needed now, I would say, such a job — I don't know, for 60 hours or 30 or 20 or 80 — I don't get to know exactly this specialized job — in short, it doesn't need to be full-time, it's going to have to hire an entire person. This is an irrational approach. And here is my key question, how much will these exams be reflected on the basis of these interventions into internal organization? This is a practical example. Then why don't we limit the professors' work so they can only study in one college? Let me answer that. Why can a professor study in a number of colleges and he doesn't? This one has to be on one. That's the only way. Is such an example, for example, I would like to see, because I would like to say that these figures in this law are very weak, is this example, for example, in neighbouring countries, or where does this practice come from? Or is it now that we've noticed a lump who, I think, brought a little bit around and now we're going to make a marriage limit like that? That's the relationship. On the basis of one bad case or two, which I believe has happened, and that he had these business contracts, not to say, countless, but now we have done so in order to encourage a strong performance of the exam. That's not the law's job. Is there bad control here? But to settle this with the law, that's, I'd say, our incompetence. I speak for the state. The law doesn't regulate that kind of thing. Then let us all be equal, and let us tell all the professors that they can only teach at one school or all the doctors that they can only do one job. There are also examples of doctors performing four strokes a month at a time. And we can figure out what four times eight is and how many hours the day has. But now we're going to go because there's such a bunch of locusts in health care, and now we're going to go to health care, and I'm asking the coalition, if you're going to prescribe for health care that a doctor can only work in one institution? Will you also prescribe for doctors? And there's also a bunch of maggots who work four shifts at the same time. It's a case like this, yeah. And now here's my question if we're going to limit it to only one facility? These are practical examples that are. We must now, I would say, these legislative texts that are, put into practice how they will be implemented in practice and how they will work in practice. And the point is whether this will benefit the citizens or harm them. That's an essential question. I want to be practical, I want to show this in my actual state – the view and implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u117	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I will try to answer my colleague Žnidar first, although these are probably some of the questions that are more likely to fly to the Ministry than to propose the law. He asked why you would not compare or compare why one teacher could teach in other colleges and why this proposal did not allow the law. Article 31 states what vehicle equipment should be. And I'm going to, I'm going to say, try to get you to do a similar comparison: the school needs a whole car, it can't just drive half a car or a car with only two wheels, it needs an entire car. And this article aims to ensure that the school has an entire man, a professional leader. So that she doesn't hire him, or maybe an employee's school will have just a janitor or a janitor or just a director who doesn't have a clue about a manager who might be successful but doesn't have one, maybe they even took his exam, but that she'll have a professional leader. However, it is appropriate that each school has a professional leader. After all, I can't imagine that we wouldn't have any professional leaders, even if they were eventually borrowing them elsewhere, or someone who was teaching them. In short, the aim of this provision is to ensure quality, which is supposed to be based on what some school staff structure should be. That's how we understand it. May the Minister correct me if the motioners have thought otherwise, but I read it so, and I believe that the majority in this assembly as well. It's really possible to debate why we shouldn't do it for others. But it's not about whether you can work for others, it's about what a school needs by itself. I agree that somewhere else he can do anything like this or teach, I don't know, at any other institution or at school, but in this article, I'm going to say, he prescribes what a school has to have. However, it says so that it must provide the professional head of the driving school. To provide in some way, it is written that for an indefinite period of time, full - time or time, and that he is only in one driving school, so that somehow one person is guaranteed to do so. That supplement that we gave, I don't think my colleague Tonin and I have had a clear understanding. I understand that in your amendment you covered all possible contracts – contracts under the Labour Relations Act, contracts under the Bond Code – but you did not cover what you did, I will tell you what an independent entrepreneur is subject to. This is that he does not conclude a contract with anyone, that he is self-employed, and we have put it in this article. It is said that those who are self - employed will be able to continue this activity for themselves or again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u119	Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Minister Gasperšič. Here you go, Mr. Breznik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u120	Yes, thank you very much. I hope, fellows, that someone else may be watching and listening, because this needs to be recorded, as far as logical reasoning and demonstrating what bureaucratic thinking is. This is a typical example of what kind of environment we come from, where bureaucratic thinking is, this self-sufficiency, this feeling that we have to regulate everything. And by doing so, look, ladies and gentlemen, we limit any normal activity – both in the auto schools, which is the basis of our debate as well as in the economy and so on. My friend Zorčič, look, all due respect for your law school. I was a few days ago with some retired professors at the Faculty of Law at one dinner and someone said, "the biggest mistake we've made with lawyers is that we didn't at least in the first year of law school as a subject of mathematics". Because of this, he said, because many students or students who have been released from the Faculty of Law have no logical conclusion, does not continue logically. Now look at this, Comrade Zorčič. So you should be in full-time and everything. [[…]] As we know, the schools are also in the countryside. People are very busy today. Someone who takes his first exam or even those who take it from him usually has to drive to the centers. This unadaptation of the school to the real environment, the fact that a small school will now have to have someone for full-time employees who will be the professional leader, is a typical example of bureaucratic thinking that has nothing to do with logic and normal life. A colleague told you nicely – a doctor who decides about life and death, who decides about life and death, this doctor can perform his contractual work with another health institution in Slovenia. Your colleagues, mostly from the public sector sitting here, feel like the Vice-President of the Electoral Commission or Mr Tank, who is listening here, hardly mind because they are not applying for a fifth job. So Members who have a fifth job, who decide here instead of listening here, may get the necessary experience, teach in Croatia and in other universities. All respect for their academic work, but I want to say: for myself, for myself, for myself, and for me, for my privileges, let's make a thousand Euros in addition, for these small schools, for these small craftsmen, and let's make a strong regulation there. Of course it's a great thing. Maybe we'll hire 50 new professional leaders. We have a whole bunch of unemployed, and let's give them, even if they're bad, we'll hire them. And this is this artificial employment, which is the second problem of Slovenia. And if I went into this explanation, I would be spreading this debate. But, Comrade Zorčič, I really thought that your slip when you didn't have a sense of what a moped is, what a bike with an auxiliary engine is, what a speed of 25 km/h, what an accident means at 25 per hour – that a bicycle can be the same as a moped – and you regulated everything. And a whole series of pensioners today are waiting for the mopeds they bought — that is, bicycles with auxiliary engines to be precise — which they bought just because they didn’t need all this and you adjusted everything. This is a new sequel now. And you're talking about road safety. In the holed roads, with the railroad from the time of Franz Joseph II, you're talking about road safety! Fix the first infrastructure, Your Honor, and the Minister and Coalition! The bumpy roads, the trains don't drive, or we have what I said. Not to talk about sidewalks, not to talk about bike paths. That's the basis for security. You talk about why people drink at the wheel. Apathy. Do you know where people drank the most? Where people don't have goals. Apathy means drunkenness at the wheel. People don't have goals because they don't have jobs because they have to move out of this country to get jobs because you don't solve problems where they are and you deal with holidays, you deal with strong regulation. And then, of course, you're going to sharpen it a lot and those who are going to want to get to the small school exam, of course, as both of my colleagues said before, of course, such a school, what is it going to have? [[…]] Yes, more expensive hours and the exam will be more expensive! After this marriage, within two years, you will not be here, I am sure, but the exam will be more expensive, 200 euros. I'm just asking you, don't do any more trouble, so we can fix it all behind you at least a little bit again, so that it will be some normal business environment where the normal flow of people, objects and everything else, where it can be traded again and so on. Please use some [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u121	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u122	Comrade Breznik, I am now going to say no to all these statements, because they are not even worth commenting on. For you are the messenger who runs 40 an hour, and I don't know what kind of shoes German but probably with a helmet on his head. So I'm not going to comment, but I'm going to explain something to you. We're not talking about selling New Year's decorations, we're talking about a transport school, it's like driving safe, we're talking about it. I hear it's a public interest that we have a school that has certain professional people. And if you want someone not to work in your village because you're very liberal and you don't have the costs with an extra employee – look, you're reading logic to me – yes he's going to take this professional exam, he's going to be an expert associate, it's logic. But if he's not an expert associate, then he can't have a high school if he doesn't have this exam as a professional leader. Why would I have one? Because it's not a dress sale. Because, I will say, the public interest is such that if someone opens it alone – and can open it, even after this rule of law – that at least this name has the title of this professional driving school manager. He'll do the exam himself, but if he doesn't, then God help him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u123	Imam Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I will indeed limit myself to what is the subject of this debate on the amendment to Article 30. I would like to stress once again that we do not limit those who are actually doing the job by what is proposed now. And they can carry out their work in the form of a self-employed entrepreneur and, of course, in the form of parts under employment contracts. However, we want to limit what has happened in the past to the fact that the status has been borrowed or that this status has been leased — the status of head of the school’s professional leadership. In fact, the conditions are clear what a school needs to do in order to function, and this status was beautifully elegantly able to borrow and only on paper. This work was not actually carried out and this task of the head of the school was not ensured. And because of this, the quality of work in the schools has also been reduced and we want to prevent it, simply this. However, an independent entrepreneur, a small school in a small place can still work, only it must, it is said, provide this function of the professional head of the school itself. But then we can no longer allow it to be chained because where it could be stopped; or whether one professional manager can work in two schools — perhaps even — in three probably difficult, but certainly not in four. Where do we draw the line? In short, we have decided here, as proponents, that the professional head of the school must be employed in a school or, if it is espé, ensures everything in his person. This is, as has already been said today, all by pursuing this goal to ensure the quality of work in the schools, so as to ensure professionalism. I would only mention this – because it has been said that as a minister I set some non-life conditions and very restrict the work or functioning of the school – that this arrangement, which is proposed now, is still very liberal and flexible and also friendly to small schools and thus to the implementation of this activity in small places and that, compared to the legislation that was in force before the implementation of this first draft of the Drivers Act, it is said that when the Road Traffic Safety Act was still in force, this was applied until 2011, for example, there was a requirement that the school should have at least three driving teachers employed. This is significantly stricter than we allow now, so I think we've gone on this path of more liberal, more flexible regulation. Of course, we want to prevent these contracts from being chained, which in fact allowed only the lending of the status for a certain school to fulfil the conditions on paper, but this quality did not, in fact, provide this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u125	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss this point, this article. I guess not. That is why I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 80 and the amendment of the SMC and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Lord Primoz Hainz, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Of course, I must say that I oppose this amendment proposed by SMC and SD. In this article, it is decided – indeed, on behalf of the pensioners, because what is 70 and above is 99% of the pensioners, of course, and I will be there every moment, so that the matter also tanges me directly, if I may say so – is that I stand by myself not to examine a person who is at this age and, of course, does more than anyone else, but to carry out this examination by a personal doctor. The personal doctor, in my opinion, is a person who knows the patient precisely, knows him mentally, mentally, also knows him physically, has all his tests at hand, and knows exactly what problems he has been dealing with – but he has probably had some of them by now – and knows how this affects his condition. In the meantime, of course, I must say that they are offering – and today there was a lot of expertise in the school’s pharmaceutical activities – the proposers of this amendment offer, say, such a choice as to who can perform an examination of a person for whether he is able to drive when he is 70, 80 and perhaps even more. Therefore, this health activity may be carried out by legal or natural persons authorised by the Ministry responsible for Health to carry out activities in the field of medicine, transport and sport, which shall notify the Ministry responsible for Health to carry out health checks on short-term candidates, nor shall it be necessary for him to be a doctor. [[…]] And now to this personal doctor, who is for the first time a doctor, for the second time knows a person very well, we place someone who has received those papers and now moves these papers and can decide his future fate. I must say that this offends a personal doctor, but I am against it, and I must say that if a personal doctor does, of course, he is also responsible for the decision he has made. No one will convince me that a legal person X can be more responsible than that man who's been living with you for decades and knows you well. So this personal doctor's responsibility is particularly emphasized in my argument. The driving of the elderly is not a luxury. You know that the dispersion in Slovenia is extremely large and then people's mobility is a big problem because public transport means are not available because houses are scattered throughout Slovenia. Of course, there is another problem, of course. The social life of pensioners is the biggest problem for pensioners or people of this age. So society, contacts – not only with the first neighbor, but also. And the last argument, which, of course, I must say, which is not negligible. If this examination is carried out by a personal doctor and if he doubts any of the capabilities of this candidate of an elder, he will, of course, write a guide and it is free of charge. But what is now, these so-called legal persons are, of course, to be paid separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u127	Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u128	I'd like to support colleague Hainz. I will say that in the New Slovenia Group we support the amendments of the Desus Group. It doesn't happen many times, but this time I think this proposal makes sense and good. Whoever went through this system of medical examinations can then tell you, these checks are very superficial and fast and that what Ambassador Hainz proposes to do to a personal doctor can be at least comparable to what is being done by the special doctors involved in these things. So you have our support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u129	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Before that, there was talk of logic, and it seems to me that we have to look at it through a little more complex logic. Comrade Hainz has highlighted a few of the problems we have. After all, the last problem is low pensions and pensions, which he will give for something or not, the second problem is the social life of pensioners. This is related to a dispersed settlement; we have just over 6,000 settlements, a little less than 6,000 live settlements, if I may put it that way, and of course the problem of public passenger transport, which is a very loving area for me. I have to say to this proposal that I am a little distracted, because then I might ask myself why a personal physician should not examine under 70 years of age. But you know, there's an 18-year-old who doesn't exactly roll in his pennies, so to speak. Another question is, how much time do personal physicians actually have for a patient? I think we're mixing a few things here, and there's one thing about money, and the other thing is accessibility. And we come up with a public health system that should ensure the availability of an expert – whether it will be a specialist in medicine work, which was usually, or a personal doctor – to take time either for an 18-year-old or for a 73-year-old. I admit, I'm a relatively bad driver, and I hope that when I'm 70 years old, I won't have to drive. Maybe by then we'll have some sort of thugs driving us until somehow the satellite falls. But it seems to me that we have laid down here a series of problems that should be solved differently, which should be solved by public passenger transport, by introducing some, if you want to call the vans at home to provide social life for the elderly. And I don't think about it, I'm on one European project, let's say work in Brno, for Brno with a suburb, where it worked very, very well or we went even with the combination that these vehicles were combined – here, this is possible a slightly higher level of logic, not too high – combined for the transport of handicapped persons and elderly. I don't think I'm going to be too long, I've got time, and I've come by. A colleague has made a very good point, but I think we have to solve it differently and in a different way, also from a transport strategy that could be more specific and more understandable in this direction to a number of mobility handicaps, if we put it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u131	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. With regard to this amendment, I would just like to say that it is that they allow these checks to be carried out by a personal physician as well, contrary to the requirements of the Driving Licence Directive, which provides that these checks are carried out by a specialist doctor who has the required diagnostic equipment. These are not personal physicians, so allowing such checks would constitute a direct violation of this Directive. If we allowed a personal physician to perform this task, we would be in trouble with other articles we have in marriage. In fact, we should then correct other articles that assume that the personal doctor is now submitting the documentation to a specialist doctor. Last but not least, I wonder if we would let a personal physician do this for the people over 70 years of age, why just for them, why not for everyone? So that's also the question that opens up. By proposing the adoption of an amendment to delete this last, second sentence in this article, as proposed by the amendment of the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u133	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The question of a personal physician who examines these papers, that this documentation should be transferred and so on, even if this is done by a special institution, the documentation should be collected. [[…]] I don't see any difference here. At the same time, when a patient comes to a personal doctor, if he does not know how to do it, he will send him on. He doesn't operate on every patient, just send it on or he collects it, and at the same time he's a graduate doctor, don't forget, please. He's not the kind of person who accidentally collected some paperwork there, but he's the same graduate doctor as the one who's at the school or the one who's special, I'm sorry, not the school. As for Dr. Duck, I must say his thought has salt. In particular, how to replace this public transport in Slovenia, which has 7 000 or how many settlements you have said and it is very difficult to connect. But you know, that's right, I'm gonna go myself a little bit like you used to say, where my mom's home, down over Krški. Krsko is a center where these transport options are large, my mother is with Zdol, and my friends had an old father, say, in Kostajk, who is 4 kilometers higher. And if Mom wanted to drive with Zdol, someone should come from Krske to Zdol and take her to Kostajk and then back, it's back to the cost of older people, say, if I say so. I agree that this will have to be done, because you save it later when you can't drive anymore. But as long as this dilemma is possible or impossible, of course, things are interesting and complicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u135	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss it. I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the end of the 17th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on aid for the resolution and restructuring of economic societies and companies in difficulty. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mag. Alešu Cantarutti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! So allow me to make a few introductory words to the above-mentioned proposal on the road. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has been granting state aid to economic operators in difficulty in accordance with the current Act on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in difficulty since Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The current law has been notified to the Commission of the European Union as a state aid scheme and the Ministry is therefore obliged to comply with the European Union guidelines when granting such State aid. Under the general system of state aid in Slovenia and the European Union, the process of granting state aid for the resolution and restructuring of economic operators plays a very specific role in difficulties. The scope is also very limited. Of the approximately €1 billion of all state aid granted at annual level in the Republic of Slovenia, between €10 million and €15 million per year is spent on helping businesses in difficulty on average. The reason is that State aid to firms in difficulty can only justify important social reasons and the need to take into account the strategic role of individual companies in the national economy. On the other hand, it would not be justified to artificially retain companies in the sector with long-term structural overcapacity or if they could only survive through repeated state interventions. Therefore, the use of State aid for rescue and restructuring is only exceptional and justified subject to certain conditions, particularly where the extent of the negative economic and social consequences for a country or a particular region justifies this. On 1 July 2014, the Commission of the European Union adopted new Community Guidelines on State aid for the resolution and restructuring of non-financial corporations in difficulty and it is also necessary to adapt domestic, that is Slovenian legislation accordingly. The new European Union Guidelines do not bring major systemic changes, but they do bring improvements and modifications that require greater selectivity of such State aids, a clearer definition of eligibility criteria and greater efficiency. More emphasis is placed on the role of market stakeholders in the restructuring process. What are the key novelties of this law? Definition of the concept of an economic company and cooperative in difficulty as set out in Article 8 in accordance with the 2014 guidelines of the European Union. Access to rescue and restructuring aid in addition to companies is also extended to cooperatives in difficulties that have so far been unduly excluded from the legal framework for rescue and restructuring without adequate substantive reasons. The introduction of a new form of State aid, i.e. temporary restructuring support. Furthermore, the proposal contains new eligibility criteria for State intervention, which in other words means that the intervention is permissible only if the bankruptcy of an economic company or cooperative causes serious social problems or a large market failure. It redefines the mandatory components of the restructuring programme. The mandatory situation in the company or cooperative is the proportional distribution of the restructuring burden between the State and the market stakeholders. Measures relating to conduct which constitute a prohibition on the behaviour of the recipient of State aid in respect of abuses which, on the basis of the aid granted, would prolong the distortion of the market structure or the protection of the beneficiary from healthy competition. In the spirit of simplifying and shortening procedures, which is of crucial importance in granting State aid to enterprises, the power to grant these aid is transferred from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, that is to say, the Ministry of the Interior. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we believe that the proposed legal text represents an important step towards the implementation of an effective and European comparable system of state aid for companies and cooperatives in difficulty. In addition, in parallel with the adoption of the draft law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the notification process of the law as a State aid scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises is also under way with the European Commission. We have also brought this dialogue with the Commission after several rounds of coordination to a final stage, so that we expect only a final decision from Brussels when the scheme is approved. Finally, honourable Members and Members, I thank you for your attention and at the same time suggest that you confirm the law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u138	Dear Presidents, colleagues from the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 40th emergency session. 11. 2016 as a parent working body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was provided with the following material: the request of SMC, Desus and SD members for a reference to the urgent meeting of the Committee, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. For the proposed law within a time limit, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments, but proposals for amendments to the Committee have been submitted to the members and members of the committee, namely the SMC, Desus and SD groups and the rapporteur, Daniel Krivec, who have been adopted by the Committee in the debate and are reflected in the report of the Committee. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups take more account of the comments made by the services in writing, with the exception of comments on the eligibility of State aid to companies in which the State has a 25 % or more share of management rights, comments to Article 8 and comments to Article 28. The meeting was also attended by a member of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, who explained that the Commission supported the proposed law. In the debate, some members and members of the Committee supported the bill and stressed that it constitutes the basis for correcting past bad practices in the area of State aid. They highlighted in particular the possibility of helping small and medium-sized enterprises with healthy cores to restructure them and further develop them. The other members and members of the committee did not object to the proposed law, but pointed out the excessive interference of the State with the economy, the specific structure of the Slovenian economy and the problem of possible state-owned financing by the State. The view was also expressed that some of the solutions in the proposed law were not sufficiently addressed. In accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, the Committee adopted all the proposed amendments following the discussion. The Committee then voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Potočnik. Following the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, I invite you back to the speaker stage to present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u140	Once again, welcome on behalf of the SMC Group! We have before us the proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty, which introduces new EU guidelines on state aid for the resolution of firms in difficulty into the Slovenian legal order. The purpose of the law is to help businesses with greater social impact and impact on the economy as a whole. The EU guidelines do not bring large-scale systemic and conceptual changes, but require greater selectivity of State aid, a clearer definition of eligibility criteria, a greater focus on the role of market stakeholders in state aid restructuring and the choice of appropriate instruments and the preparation of an appropriate restructuring programme. The forms of State aid to companies in difficulty are: loans, subsidies, guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia. State aid to companies in difficulty is a one-off aid granted in accordance with the law once and for the last time. The proposed solutions seek to provide greater opportunities for efficient and real restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty and to improve their ability to maintain and maintain jobs, as well as opportunities for a more stable functioning of the Slovenian economic system. In practice, however, State aid has been granted exclusively to companies defined in the law governing companies. The proposal for a law extends this possibility of allocation to cooperatives established under the law governing cooperatives. The cooperatives have so far been unjustifiably released from the state aid rescue and restructuring regime for no adequate substantive reason. In the SMC Group, we insisted on incorporating guidance from the Smart Specialisation Strategy into the law system. The law will have to take into account the comparative advantages of the domestic economy by limiting the decision-making process to areas and visions of the Smart Specialisation Strategy, whose activities focus on sustainable development and ensuring the achievement of climate objectives and the development of a sustainable economy. The process of drafting the new law started in spring 2016. At that time — despite the fact that demand or the need to grant State aid to certain companies in difficulty continued to come from the economic sector — due to the existence of an old State aid scheme with the European Commission at the Ministry could not grant such aid. In this regard, a number of roles have been raised for companies waiting for priority treatment. In the SMC Group, we have decided to support the proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u141	Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the proposal states that new European Union guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty are being introduced into the Slovenian legal order. The changes bring about a clearer redistribution of the eligibility criteria for State aid and contribute to greater efficiency due to the new provisions on the choice of appropriate instruments and the preparation of an appropriate restructuring programme. The new guidelines of the European Union, according to the applicants, do not lead to large-scale systemic conceptual changes in the granting of State aid to economic operators in difficulty, but changes that require greater selectivity of such State aid, in particular a clearer definition of eligibility and contribute to greater efficiency, thus focusing on the role of market stakeholders in restructuring with State aid, the choice of appropriate instruments, the preparation of an appropriate restructuring programme and so on. Essentially, we can say whether the main solutions even in the Slovenian Democratic Party are somehow seen to be that the complementary definition of the concept of economic society and cooperatives is in difficulty, so the definition is established in accordance with the Community Guidelines on State aid for the resolution and restructuring of non-financial enterprises in difficulty and is valid and generally accepted in the area of all European Union countries. Secondly, the possibility of accessing rescue and restructuring aid is also introduced for cooperatives, which is a novelty. A new form of State aid is being introduced – temporary restructuring support. It is considered to be a more flexible form of State aid, which represents a lower administrative burden for all participants. Fourthly, a new eligibility criterion is introduced for the exit of the beneficiary company for the reason that the market is likely to have caused more serious social problems or a greater market failure. Fifthly, new mandatory components of the restructuring programme are also identified. Sixth, a compulsory state in an economic company or cooperative shall be introduced in a proportionate distribution of the recovery burdens between the State and the market stakeholders. Market stakeholders must participate adequately in the implementation of the restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty. This is a condition that the State can also be involved in the restructuring process. Finally, measures relating to the conduct, prohibition of the behaviour of beneficiaries with regard to abuses which, on the basis of the aid granted, prolong the distortion of the structure of the market or the protection of the beneficiary against healthy competition. Dear colleagues, if we also look at comparable countries, particularly neighbouring Austria, have in neighbouring Austria, as you know, the country of Koroška several announced schemes for small, medium, large enterprises in the field of industry, tourism and validity by the end of February 2020. It uses various State aid instruments: subsidies, interest rate subsidies, loans with a favourable interest rate and State guarantees. In addition, they also have a notified scheme for the whole country with effect from 31 December 2020. Similarly, Germany has a desire to avoid individual notifications made by individual federal countries in Germany over the past period, so that this scheme is also applicable there until 31. 12. 2020. As many good measures that are in support of companies, especially those that may have been in trouble because of poor governance, the State Secretary may or may not be in favour of our country of strategic importance We in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which understands the economy, the proposal of this law, are respected because today the Minister is not here, we support, so we will not object in this direction. [[…]] We have, as you know, some conceptual problems, which I also said at the session – about abuse, about not repeating what has been happening all these years. So, above all, we have something, we can say, different views than the Government, especially on monitoring these companies and on control. There has always been a control problem and people who have also been preparing restructuring programmes. Therefore, as I have told you, in the Slovenian Democratic Page, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will presathe the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear fellows! Very briefly, our Group's position on the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty. There are still persistent reports or very often that the state has invested substantially too much tax money to address the consequences of bad decisions for the so-called bank hole. Until those responsible are found, the concern is fully justified and the question why we are always trying to focus on recapitalising the banking sector, despite the still unresolved negative consequences, entirely in place. The fact is that the economic sector has been slightly neglected or abandoned in the meantime. The consequences of the economic crisis of the country are to be felt in every area, and a number of companies are also in financial difficulties. If we want to continue the growing trend of economic growth, then it is right to start thinking or thinking more about the important role of economic societies. In the Desus Group we welcome solutions to help companies in difficulty, especially small entrepreneurs, medium-sized enterprises and new cooperatives. In doing so, we would like to point out that in the past we have also had cases of some companies which, despite financial injections – and not small ones – have landed in bankruptcy or at a so-called bad bank. In such cases, the question of the eligibility of the granting of aid is raised, and in particular the effectiveness of control over the use of money. However, in Desus, we are more interested in the story of a particular company or, if I may use medical terminology, in the so-called blood count of society. It might be more graphic to compare it with the so-called social picture, because in such cases there is always a reoccurrence of social problems on the day or in light of the so-called social problems, so it could also be called social images, because companies in difficulty always expose a large number of employees in these entities who are threatened or fired or are already doing so for those minimum and modest wages, if we can even call them wages. And this not only becomes an individual’s problem or a company’s failure to do so, but includes whole families suffering from financial insecurity and social distress. The adverse economic and social consequences are devastating not only for the local environment – and if you allow me to call here, we in Maribor know exactly and very well what it is like to have a situation in a narrowly narrow local area in the light – and this is also harmful or has negative consequences for the country as a whole. It is for this reason that the general conditions for granting rescue and restructuring aid should be respected and, before being granted, the central role of the company or cooperative in the development of both the region and the country as well as the sectors or sectors should be examined. Above all, we have serious social problems in mind with an increased unemployment rate. Negative or, if you want, exacerbated demographic challenges that threaten us or are actually facing, we can only be caught up in the way of timely, smart and active efforts to tackle policies, especially employment policies, particularly young and long-term unemployed people. Colleagues and colleagues, we are confident that the adoption of this bill, which we are considering today, will also bring its contribution in this area, so we will unanimously support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u145	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The law before us is a general framework in which the state can intervene and help businesses in difficulty. In accordance with the established European rules on the granting of State aid, which was last completed in 2014, and with the principles on the prohibition of the restriction of the market and distortion of competition, such State intervention is part of a scheme which must comply with the general principles that the rules are clear and equal for all and that under equal conditions the aid is accessible to all undertakings. The strict rules of the European Union severely limit interventions to the market to artificially create economically inefficient businesses or to unfairly favour certain companies on the market. To this end, the principle applies for the first time and for the last time, so that countries do not indefinitely support economically inefficient companies. Accordingly, our State aid scheme, as set out in this bill, must also be confirmed by the European Commission. This is the only way Slovenia can start implementing aid programmes without violating the rules of the internal European market and free competition. The bill before us sets out such a state aid scheme and makes sense for cooperatives, as they also compete on the market and are important for job provision and are in this sense an undertaking like any other. The law allows both retroactive and irreversible forms of aid and adds new, more flexible aid options covered by the law during the so-called temporary restructuring support measures. These may be used where all stakeholders actively participate in the implementation of the changes in the company and therefore the bureaucratic burden on such a form of aid for the company is lower. In any event, however, State aid with which the State reaches the market and helps the undertaking in difficulty must be based on a prepared and feasible restructuring plan, with which the company becomes again capable of self-sustainment on the market. In the case of amendments and restructuring, it is also a condition for obtaining aid to the cooperation of other stakeholders – owners, partners, creditors – as it is difficult to expect that State aid will make sense. Companies wishing to obtain State aid for rescue and restructuring will therefore be able to apply for it on the basis of a realistic restructuring plan for which they will obtain the consent and cooperation of other stakeholders and share the burden between them. This ensures that State aid is effectively used to help companies with a long-term chance of self-sustaining on the market. We will support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats, as well as the amendment tabled by Members and Members of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u147	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the ministerial team, once again to the National Assembly, and especially to young visitors and visitors! Good afternoon. The law does not bring, regrettably, major changes, as it is based on the European Union's extremely restrictive logic – the Secretary of State has already talked about – which severely restricts the role of the country in the economy, particularly in the area of development, conservation and, unfortunately, job creation. It is clear that MGRT (Ministry of Economic Development and Technology) only spends a few million a year on State aid, although the active role of the State could save many jobs, including in Maribor, to encourage a deliberate restructuring of enterprises and their development orientation. Neither has the Internet developed in the garage and also technologies that drive our smart phones, not even though such stories are often sold to us by the believers of the free market. In France, companies do not sell speculative financial funds that reduce wages and fire workers. We sell them in Slovenia, I'm afraid. The poor guy can get state aid, and Elan can't. These are the double criteria of the European Union and this is unfortunately too often the policy of the Government of Mir Cerar. The strict European framework of state aid is clearly designed to ensure competitiveness on the shoulders of workers and workers. At the same time, within the European framework, this form of State aid is a lever of privatisation. A school example of this is the New Maribor Credit Bank to refresh our memory. The state recapitalised it with EUR 870 million, became its sole owner and then sold the bank with more than EUR 650 million of book capital, the so-called book, for EUR 250 million of venture capital. Nevertheless, the law is subject to a very visible change, and the marriage came in the name of the marriage. The cooperatives are finally classified as beneficiaries of State aid. The latter in the United Left are, of course, viewed as positive, but according to the Government's attitude and in general the attitude of most institutions towards society can be skeptical if cooperatives in practice really gain something by this law. Why? Promoting the development of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy was one of the key promises at the time of Mir Cerar's term of office. The assessment of the promise made so far - defeating. On the positive side, almost nothing has moved, and the Prime Minister in his cabinet has hired even the Secretary of State to promote economic democracy. On the negative side, we have a number of missed opportunities: from our Maribor Armal, through Tuš, Mercator, New Novoles, that I don't even start or talk about the origin of housing cooperatives, because unfortunately they're not there yet. Or the case of Adrie Airways, where the labor buy was a real possibility, the state institution sold the company to an unknown Polish buyer who only carried out the operation for five years. If Slovenia is indeed lagging behind good European practices, it is a cooperative, social entrepreneurship and other forms of collaborative economy, which is extremely bad! Why? This is the most sustainable way of maintaining and creating jobs, one person’s principle – one vote that introduces economic democracy into the working environment, where often the bad orders of managers prevail. Cooperatives and cooperatives are also much more entangled in the local environment and are generally sustainable. In the United Left, we will not oppose the law because it is necessary. Restructuring rescue programmes are needed. However, we are opposed to the European forced jacket, which is bad for Slovenian economic development and worse for workers and workers. And I hope that that selectivity, Mr State Secretary, which is enshrined in the law, will not be selective at the expense of some past kleptocrat, corrupt practices and abuses of such assistance. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u149	Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u150	Dear Members, Members, dear visitors, good afternoon! The proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty is governed by the State's involvement in the functioning of the socio-market economy system. The draft law lays down the conditions for the State to be involved in the resolution of companies and cooperatives. One of these conditions is also the identification of an important systemic role of the company in the development of a country, region or sector that is fulfilled if the bankruptcy and termination of a company or cooperative would result in one or more of the following circumstances: First, serious social problems with an increased unemployment rate. Secondly, the emergence of major market distortions and distortions of competition. Thirdly, the risk of interruption of the provision of an important product or service. Fourthly, the risk of interruption of the important value chain. Fifth, the risk of termination or destruction of critical infrastructure of national importance. And six times, the loss of important technical, business or professional knowledge and comparative advantages of the state. For small or medium-sized companies, this definition is even more loose. It is enough already to be a society with high growth potential or significant interconnections with other local and regional companies whose bankruptcy would have negative economic and social consequences for the region or the sector; in short, a very loose condition. We can quickly understand that these circumstances are set very loose. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also pointed out that the criteria for assessing a systemicly important role are very general and difficult to verify objectively. Such a definition simply allows for too much potential for abuse. However, Slovenian taxpayers have in the past been forced to spend too many millions of euros to continue playing with this area. The legislative and legal service also pointed out the inconsistencies of the bill's proposal, since it exempts independent entrepreneurs and economic interest associations. In Novi Slovenija, we want a better business environment, which would allow entrepreneurs to solve their businesses better on their own rather than being rescued by the state. It would be better to change laws that substantially change the business environment and make it better, not to adopt laws that talk about how the state will help businesses in difficulty or even more what we will do in the coming days – to adopt laws that will allow special investment; this certainly says much about the country. We would like laws that would change the tax environment, which would change our administration in a way that the Slovenian public administration would be first aid, not the first obstacle to the realisation of business ideas. And we would also like to see changes in the school system and a serious introduction of the dual system so that our young people from the education system come prepared and trained to begin work immediately. And it's a perfectly principled matter that bothers us with the whole marriage. In principle, we are in New Slovenia against whatever you want, subsidies, aids and similar stories, because we see better options than that the country gives money to a company to help with relief or tax relief. Thus, the bill does not follow the Christian democratic programming guidelines that the state must withdraw from the economy. According to the OECD, the Republic of Slovenia is one of the countries with the highest share of state ownership in the economy. If the state does not withdraw from the economy, the economy will leave the country; this must be a reminder to us. And because we want to make it very clear with our five votes that it is not the solution to adopt laws, how this country will invest again in bad and bad standing companies, but anything else before that, we will oppose the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u151	The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u152	Dear President, Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the proposal for a law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies and cooperatives in difficulty. Why? Because we believe that this is an important instrument by the Government when it can help businesses that are in trouble and these companies still have healthy cores, it is said that they have a good programme, but because of the web of circumstances, they can also get into this situation because of poor governance. And if there are good opportunities for the company to get rid of such problems, it is also right to help them. However, we would like to draw attention to the following: It is of great importance that a proper assessment of the eligibility to grant aid is carried out. If this is done correctly, then we have every opportunity to succeed with this state aid. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that and, of course, call on the Government to put in place proper control mechanisms, that this state aid or aid will be used instead of being used and that it will not land in the pockets of elites and perhaps sometimes, as in the past, in tax havens. Once again, we in the parliamentary group trust this law because we know that we can do a great deal when all the other instruments fail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u153	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 12 July. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. I'm asking, does anyone want to discuss it? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. The amendments will be decided in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also the 25th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u154	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 13, 15, 17, 29 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you, President. On the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request a 45-minute suspension before the vote for coordination within the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u156	I suppose that refers to point 13. Me? So, we've reached point 13. Huh. I'll read it first, then. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Pharmacy Activities in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. At this point you request I will open another Article 4 to make it clear where we are. [[…]] We decide on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 4. At this point it is possible to set a 45-minute break due to the fact that you can request it on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm asking if at this point before, because we always have this explanation for the vote, someone wants to do it. Does anyone want to make an explanation of the vote about this point? No, no, no. Then we proceed, so I assign a 45-minute break and proceed at 3 p.m. and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u157	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We ended at the 13th point, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Pharmacy in Article 4, the decision on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 4. First of all, I ask the head of Mr Franc Jurša's Group of Members if he wishes to give an opinion. [[advertising from the hall]] Later? Later it is possible to give an opinion to everyone. Okay. So we decide on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 4. We're voting. There were 80 Members and Members present, 49 for whom there were votes against and one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 26. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, President. On the inside of the parliamentary group we met on this article or amendment – and on the basis of this, I also requested a 45-minute break from the outset – and agreed as follows: to support the amendment of the United Left, because we want public institutions on the one hand, and on the other hand businesses, institutions, to put institutions in an equivalent position. The interpretation that this is governed by another law was experienced in the previous term when we were told exactly the opposite that these matters were governed by another law. We have assessed on the basis that it is this law that regulates this matter, which is why we also support the amendment, as I have already said, of the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u159	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Ambassador Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. One of the stated purposes of the Lek Act is the prohibition of vertical connections, the prohibition of ownership between private concessional pharmacies on the one hand and large wholesalers, drug suppliers, medical equipment and so on. With our amendment to the United Left, we consistently enforce this principle. The Act on Pharmacy does not achieve this objective. In fact, it prohibits the ownership of grossites by pharmacies and, on the other hand, does not prohibit wholesale ownership in individual pharmacies. Until now, this was not a problem, because concessional pharmacies could only work as espouses, but this new law on pharmacy activity opens the door to parts as well. Moreover, individual concessionaires may have a 50 % share of their share of the sale to third parties. And among these third parties, there may also be wholesalers, large pharmaceutical suppliers. We know that the Slovenian market is dominated by 80% of the two largest companies, Salus and Chemofarmation. And with the entry of such large players into the ownership share of concessionary pharmacy parts, exceptional pressure will be exerted on individual concessionaires to raise profits. And in what way can a pharmacy only make a profit? By increasing drug sales. This, of course, violates the second stated objective of the new pharmacy law, which is a restriction on over-exploitation of medicines. Because in the heart of the public pharmacy system we incorporate capitalist motive after as much profit as possible. And the last thing people in this country need is for patients in this country to be pushed down by big pharmaceutical companies. That is why we have proposed an amendment to Article 26, and therefore we turn to this State Assembly for your support. It's a precautionary principle; we don't lose anything if we all support this amendment together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u161	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Of course, the amendments in this way, as proposed by colleague Kordish, "because we don't lose anything, let's accept it," that's not how it works. You need to take a look at the contents. First of all, you who are thinking about supporting this amendment – tell us if there is a pharmacy in Slovenia today where any of the Grossist has an ownership stake. Does any Grossist have a ownership stake in the pharmacy – retail if you want to do it at home? Today, vertical connections are not prohibited. So we think that the amendment of the United Left is unnecessary because the bill itself prohibits verticals in both directions; that a critter cannot establish pharmacies and that a pharmacy cannot be established by a critter. And now I'm going to justify it. My colleague says it's not true, and I'll be happy to explain it to her. Article 26, with the amendment of the United Left, refers to general restrictions for drug users. Once again, general restrictions for drug users. That's for those who have pharmacies. And we're not talking about drug manufacturers and we're not talking about junk drugs. For this reason, of course, this amendment does not fit me in. And here, of course, article 26 speaks of the fact that pharmacies should not have ownership shares in junk. Then let's go to Article 27. It says who can set up a public pharmacy office — only congregations or groups of congregations, neighboring congregations. So, are the grosists — again this fear — congregations or a group of congregations? They're not. Can they set up a public pharmacy institution? The answer is: they can't. Furthermore, fear that the Grosses will establish or have ownership in concessionaires. Article 39; since we know that if, for example, municipalities cannot provide their network, their pharmacies can be awarded concessions through a public pharmacy. And who can get the concession? It says: "The concession to carry out a pharmacy activity at the primary level may be granted to a natural person who is carrying out a pharmacy activity..." and so on. To a natural person or to a legal person in which this natural person is a natural person, this drugstore operator is the majority owner. However, the carrier is defined in Article 3. Look who this can be: a natural person, a pharmacist, a master of pharmaceuticals. Is he a natural person and a mag? Pharmacotherapeutic group: [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u163	I'm asking, is there any other explanation, but is there really an explanation on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support this amendment for a simple reason. The links between individual private pharmacies in the hands of concessionaires with wholesale companies should be prohibited. Vertical links must be prohibited, which is not least the stated objective of the law on pharmacy activities that are ahead of us. But this law does not achieve its purpose. Although it prohibits the ownership of grossites by individual pharmacies, it does not prohibit the entry of grossites into specific pharmacies. At the moment, of course, this is not a problem, because now concessionaries can only be espeists, so no wholesale company in Slovenia has its own share, because you cannot have a share in the espeus of ownership. But the law on pharmacy activity, this new one also opens up the possibility of parts and selling off half the share of this portion that a concessionaire can make. In this way, large wholesale companies can take ownership of private pharmacies. And that's why in the United Left we propose this amendment because the last thing we need is for large wholesale companies to control the whole chain of pharmacies and that these big pharmaceutical companies that deal with pharmaceutical materials increase their profits in a way that our people shop too much with drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u165	A self-explanation of the vote, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me first conclude the sentence of course that we will not support this amendment in the parliamentary group for the reasons I have already mentioned, because we believe that this amendment is not necessary, because the law already basically prohibits this vertical link in both directions. However, at Article 26, the amendment to Article 26 of the Colleague was already a little premature and went to some other articles. [[…]] So, once again, let me finish that thought and base my vote against this amendment. Concession can only be granted to a natural person, a holder of pharmaceutical activities, who may be a Master of Pharmacy. Once again, it can't be a critter who's a company. But a natural person isn't a critter.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u167	Explanation of the voice in its own name, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support this amendment, because the law, as my colleague Kordiš has said several times, does not prohibit vertical integration. What's the problem? So far, private pharmacies could only have been espouses. With this change that we are introducing today, private pharmacy parts may be available. However, the shares can be sold to third parties and can be made by new wholesalers. It is true, we do not yet have a case where a Grossist would own a stake in a pharmacy, but it will be possible to do so after a new one. And we want to prevent that. This means that the critters could start taking over the pharmacy, because this will bring back everything that Micah Kordish was talking about. That's why I'm going to personally support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u169	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. In this National Assembly, I often hear ideologies. What has now raged between SMC Member and colleague Kordish is essentially the heart of ideology. There are two views on the development and content of an important sector. One party is, of course, more represented by the views that are crossed through the teahouses of the American Chamber of Commerce, our United Left represents, I hope to state here, the interests of the people. Therefore, this is simply the case, and in no law is there any extra guardian, especially since in Slovenia the vast majority of sectors, the activities are mostly oligopolous. We're a small square. I'm sorry about that. And even if you seem to have no oligopolity, you do. We can go watch the Supervisor while he's still working; seven years, eight/nine companies, five.7 billion, and one father, and one daughter, who's been given favourable credits, and another, some third, and so on. And we're fighting this kind of government money collapse in the United Left and we're going to fight for the rest of our days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u171	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 40 for them and 33 for them. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 33. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 36. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. With this amendment in the United Left, we systematically introduce the levers of working codecision into public pharmacies. What's this all about? The Law on the participation of workers in the management of businesses allows them to have one third of the representatives in the supervisory boards of undertakings. The weight of their vote is also difficult for a third of all decision makers in the company. However, because public institutions have not obtained their own law, which they should and would have regulated, the issue of labour management or the participation of employees in the functioning of public institutions remains limited and questionable. And just the participation of employees is one of the weak points in our health field and it works very unevenly. I will give you a very specific problem here in Maribor's Pharmacy Maribor, in a public institution, employees have the right to one-eighth of the members of the board of the institution, and it would certainly be right to raise this proportion to one-third, as is the case in the private sector with the participation of employees in the management of businesses. In this proposal, we also refer to Article 75 of the Constitution, which ensures that employees are co-declared in the operation of various organisations, and this is, last but not least, right at the principal level. Look, in this National Assembly, we all swear to democracy sooner or later. But why should democracy stay behind closed doors in factories and behind bureaucratic blinds in public institutions? If we are serious about democracy, we must also bring it to businesses, including public institutions. With our amendment to Article 36, this is exactly what we do for the pharmacy area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u173	We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 6 votes against 67. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 38. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 39th Article under number 1. • Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors: United Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, thank you very much to all those who have supported a related amendment earlier to Article 26. That amendment actually introduced fair free trade relations in pharmacy activities because it prevented the organisation of trusts in this area. But the problem is that concessionaires are not only espouses, but that they become parts goes deeper. Very concretely, when an individual concessionaire can resell a half share of his share to a third party, that means that he has brought a profit motive into his business. And how can pharmacies raise their profits? Only on one – by increasing the sale of medicines. Thank God this National Assembly, by supporting our amendment to Article 26, has prevented this other owner of the concessional part from being a major pharmaceutical supplier or a wholesaler. That would have been the biggest pressure. But these pressures after increasing drug sales will not disappear until we allow equity management with concessions. Since, after all, why would anyone put any funds into the pharmacy if not to hope for a return on profits and a maximization of this profit? Again, in some public activity, we introduce the most harsh capitalist levers into the supply of medicines that should be completely exempt from any profitable motives: after increasing profits, after raising profits, of course, at the expense of human health. Therefore, here we propose an amendment to return concessions to the basic idea that it was in the beginning. Thus, we have one qualified person, who is given a mandate by the State or the local community to carry out an activity, and I am also not attracted to profitable motives after the maximum possible financial extraction. Finally, the issue of medicines is a regulated activity, it is not a strong economic sector, and for good reason this is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u175	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. In the SMC Group we will oppose this amendment, again for a similar reason as before. We believe that there is no need for it and that the fear that the amendment's proposer cites is superfluous. I'm going to start over with a question that I started with before. Today, today, according to today's legislation, vertical connections are not prohibited. I must say, they're not forbidden. This law will only ban them. Tell me about one example – we have quite a few concessionary pharmacists in the country in addition to these public institutions – and tell me one who has one percent, one percent, of the property share of any rake. It's not that, it's not that. The operator of the pharmacy activity must be a natural person who will receive the concession to which the concession will be granted. In line with this free economic initiative, of course, another legal form of action – not only espa as it has been – must also be allowed to work in the form of a share. Of course, it has to have a majority stake in it. And even today, when this is not forbidden, we don't have this case. This is now said, under this new legislation, the possibility of this is impractical. So what are we afraid of? This amendment is unnecessary and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u177	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I'm sorry, but I'm about to have a slow, rude war. Comrade Zorman, tell me, which espa can be cut into equity shares and sold to the other and to the third? Just tell me where you can do it. You can't do that! Because espa by definition is supposed to represent a sole entrepreneur and not a share company. Therefore, your implementation, as already some Grossists are not owners or are the owners of espionage, is a simple deception. However, since I have been saying this for the third time or the fourth time at this meeting of the National Assembly at this point, I will go even further — what you are saying is lies. Because you express deliberate, willful manipulation only by proving your point and discrediting the motioners of this amendment, which is the United Left. And I'll tell you this. Basically – if we are already talking about concessions – in the United Left we would not have a problem with this, see that concessioneers are not only episcopists but also parts, if this means that the owner of the share is only one shareholder. This is a concessionary pharmacist who carries out his activities. The problem here, of course, arises that in the new pharmacy law, these parts also open doors to co-owners and, of course, these co-owners will invest only because they expect a return, they expect a profit. Again, I repeat how the pharmacy can raise its profits – by increasing the sale of medicines. This is the way, it is the lever, it is the direct pressure for us to put an excessive drug consumption mechanism into the heart of our medicine supply, and we are proposing what we are proposing in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u179	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 6 votes in favour and 62 votes in favour. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 62.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 39 under Article 2. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 18 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 39th Article under number 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll be brief. It's very simple. We know how often concessions have been handled in this country in the field of health care. But they have been inherited, they have been sold and so on; what we want to achieve by this amendment to Article 39 is a ban on legal transport by concession. That's all. A modest goal, I hope we reach it. However, of course, this prohibition is not absolute because paragraphs 55 and 59 of the Act allow for the temporary takeover of the concession in the event of the death or prolonged illness of the concessionaire, which is also relevant for the absence of the supply of medicinal products in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u181	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 66. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 52. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. There are significant surpluses in pharmacy activities. Only in the years of the biggest crisis, from 2011 to 2014, has the pharmacy activity recorded 32 million euro surpluses. Why am I telling you this? Because we want to introduce a minimum concession fee in the United Left with an amendment to Article 52, namely 10 per cent of the annual revenue generated by the concessionaire through private means, this is through market activity. If we already have an activity such as the supply of medicines that generate surpluses, then it is only right that these surpluses are also used for basic activities, this is a pharmacy activity or, if not for pharmaceutical activities, at least in a broader sense for health care. One of the good points of the pharmacy law that is ahead of us today is that this is precisely what it sets out in the right way when we talk about public pharmacies. But it introduces unequal treatment of public pharmacies and concessionaires. And that is why, in the United Left, we propose a concession fee not only for public pharmacies, but also for concessionaires to return communities, to their industry, and to return health care to the inhabitants in their local environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u183	We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, four of whom voted against 66. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 71. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 66. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments as well as the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the representative of the Government, as the proposer of the draft law in the introductory explanation, proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. The decision will be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 52 for them and 24 for them. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A third consideration of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly on Thursday, 15. 12. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Drivers Act under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 14. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the second reading of this law, I must say that a relatively small group of Members, who remained in the Chamber, held a rather high-quality debate, resulting, of course, also from certain conditions on the ground, in particular in the sense that something remains small. Because some basic idea of this, hidden in this well-intentioned amendment, was to actually have smaller actors, smaller schools, even espouses. One dilemma was how this would affect the price of such services after all. See, today that you have at least a B driver's license, in fact it already belongs to some general education and sightseeing, which some literally cannot afford, and thus, of course, are disadvantaged in how they run for jobs. The government's proposal, which came up, is kind of like this. The Chamber of Commerce determines the minimum hour – driving time, let's say domestic – and then the department of the department approves or burns it. In view of some experience regarding this amendment of 60 hours or the expulsion of small ones, which also came from the same Chamber of Commerce – which I and also in the United Left ask about who this chamber represents – we return responsibility and this pingpong ball to the Government. The government, after all, we have Umar, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which measures all this data, knows what the situation is in this society and the country. In fact, in this amendment, we somehow expect the Government, in cooperation with Umar, to set the highest price. This is somehow our proposal, which will regulate this activity in a way that is more equitable and at the same time take advantage of the 30 seconds we have left. In view of the debate we have had, I would like to appeal on behalf of the United Left to make a third reading at the next session, because there are still some open challenges in this legislation that we should consider, sleep through and, ultimately, seriously regulate for the benefit of those who are carrying out this activity and also for the greater traffic safety of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u185	We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, 21 for them and 52 for them. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 30 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group will become irrelevant under number 2 and the amendment of the SMC and SD groups of Members under number 3. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present, 25 were voted in favour and 50 were present. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors under Article 30(2). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SMC and SD groups shall become irrelevant. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, with 25 votes against 53. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 30 under Article 3. We're voting. There were 78 Members and Members present, 53 of whom were voted against and 20 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SMC and SD to Article 80. We're voting. Oh, I'm sorry! I'm breaking up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Primož Hainz. In my own name. First of all, is there anyone on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. I will, of course, oppose this amendment. For I am advocating that a personal physician should perform his role, which he actually does because he knows every patient or person he contacts separately. And if the talk about driving permits after the 1970s is for pensioners, then of course I think that the mental and physical condition of an individual is known by a personal physician. However, the amendment says that doctors can do this, but operators may also be legal or natural persons authorised by the Ministry of Health. Of course, that's an incomparable quality, if I may say so harshly. The second question, of course, is that if a personal doctor does this, it is free of charge. Because a personal doctor, if he's embarrassed, if he doesn't know how to make a decision, then of course he writes a sign, sends a person to see a specialist and then he decides again. And these are, of course, the main arguments. By not talking specifically about how the driving test is actually as long as possible in humans, but of course this applies in both cases, which is important for the social life of each individual. Especially since he is no longer in the company, let us say in a ministry, and later he may have major problems with that address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u187	An explanation of the voice in your own name? Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. I'll say, to some extent, I agree with my colleague Hainz. It is, however, such that this arrangement, which was originally proposed and then voted otherwise in the home labour body, is such – or the arrangement as we know it – that this is actually a medical ability identified by specialists, namely specialists in medicine of work, transport and sport. These organisations, which also receive this mandate from the Ministry of Health, are considered to have at least two specialists. In short, I estimate that it may still be better to assess some medical psychophysical ability of candidates to perform specialists in this area and that, I will say, in some environments, there may also be some treatment at some personal level, it is said between a personal doctor and a patient you know, and perhaps a personal doctor might also overlook certain requirements that legislation and sub-laws determine as to what some psychophysical ability to drive a motor vehicle means. I will therefore vote in favour of the amendments of the SMC and SD groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u189	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 41 votes in favour and 30 votes in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[30 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the decision on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the representative of the proposed law in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present, 55 for them and 23 for them. [[The vote was 55.]] [[There were 23 votes against.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A third consideration of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly on Thursday, 15. 12. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. Amendments to these Articles may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of item 17 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies and Cooperatives in difficulty under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 12. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 3. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] What it said, it doesn't matter what we voted on, I made it very clear. [[advertising from the hall]] I read it correctly. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, so the Magnetogram counts, not what it says. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] There are 78 Members and Members present, with 55 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 8. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 24. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 27. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of Article 137, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour and one against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We move to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia On 25 November 2016, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that the current Deputy Governors of Banka Slovenije, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, be appointed mag. Joseph Bradeshk. I give the floor to the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac, for a further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u190	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, good afternoon! Allow me a few brief introductory words to the proposal of the President of the Republic for the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. At the invitation of the President, the Office of the President of the Republic received 11 proposals for nominations for the Vice Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. You have also been familiar with all the nominations of Members and Members of Parliament. After discussions with the candidates, after a thorough reflection and consultation – several times – with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose a mag to the National Assembly for the Vice-Governor. Joseph Bradesk, born March 1966, union. Depl. Computer engineer, mag. the economic sciences currently carrying out the work of a member of the SID Board of the Bank – Slovenian Export and Development Bank. Let me briefly summarize some of the key points that justify the President's proposal. Mag. Bradesko is an experienced expert with more than 25 years of successful work both in central banking and banking. Almost 15 years of working experience in Banka Slovenije enables him to become well aware of both the way the institution operates and the content areas of the central banking area, in particular in the implementation of monetary policy and instruments of the central bank. A good knowledge of banking itself is demonstrated by the functioning and success of the SID bank, where it has been a member of the board for the past ten years. During the crisis period, this has significantly increased the volume of business, despite significant countercyclical growth, the Bank has been in business without loss throughout the crisis period and has carried out a prudential review of business by the ECB in 2014 as the only Slovenian bank without additional capital requirements. These are undoubtedly achievements that stand out in the Slovenian banking system and show that state ownership can also be successful if it is managed by highly professional professionals such as mag. Joseph Bradesko. At the same time, it is particularly important that the mag. Bradeško does not bring with it the experience of the ordinary business bank, but rather the experience of the management of the development bank, which, like Banka Slovenije, represents an institution of special national importance with a specific role in the economic policy of the country and which requires a higher level of transparency vis-à-vis other institutions of the State and the public. Mag. Bradesko also has experience in another key area of operation of the central bank – banking supervision arising both from the period of his work in the Bank of Slovenia and also from the work at the SID bank in managing risks and managing the bank. For more than 8 years, he served as the President of the Supervisory Board of the First Credit Insurance Company, which complements his references in the field of insurance. The successful and convincing expertise of the candidate is also confirmed by comprehensive formal reviews of the suitability and suitability of the mag. He's done his chin so far. None of the checks so far have identified any reservations to the function of management or control. Mag. Bradesko also presented himself publicly and at the presentation of his candidacy he also presented in detail and in depth the view and vision of the Bank of Slovenia, in particular in the area of monetary policy and banking supervision. On the basis of consultations with the parliamentary groups, it can be found: among all the notified candidates, Mag. Bradesko enjoys the most convincing support and confidence of Members and Members of Parliament. These long-standing professional experience, the integrity candidate, the proven ability to participate in different environments, and the demonstrated support of distinguished experts undoubtedly justify the appropriateness of the function of the vice-governor, a member of the Bank of Slovenia Council, and allow a reasonable expectation that it will be a mag. A beard in case of appointment performed its function professionally and conscientiously. The President of the Republic therefore proposes to mag. You are appointing Jožef Bradeška Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, and we sincerely hope that his appointment will be supported today by the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u191	The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal to appoint a Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, the National Assembly on the appointment of a Vice-Governor shall act by secret ballot of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already made proposals for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, Mr. Jan Škoberne, Group of the Social Democrats, Miha Kordiš, Group of the United Left and Mr. Joseph Horvat, Group of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am pleased to inform you that we wish to participate in this committee. I think that, given the size of the Group of Members and also the importance of the decision-making process, this should be ensured and I suggest that Mr Breznik goes to the Election Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u193	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u194	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u195	To end the session as soon as possible in a positive atmosphere, as it has begun, we resign to this city and propose that the SDS take this and that it also respect the women's quota. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u196	If I have understood correctly about everything that has been said – although the women's quota will obviously not be taken into account in this – then are the candidates we are voting on: Dr. Mitja Horvat, Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Miha Kordiš and Mr. Joseph Horvat? Yeah. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 77 votes against. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. Quiet, please! In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or the word "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, will be appointed if the majority of all Members and Members vote in favour, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5 p.m. and will continue until 17.15 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u197	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned meeting of the Assembly and the consideration of the closed 29.a point, this is with the proposal to appoint a Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of mags. Joseph Bradeška for Vice-Governor, member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 13 December 2016. 78 ballots were distributed, 78 ballots were delivered. There were five invalid ballots, 73 valid ballots. 56 members voted against. 17 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag. Jožef Bradeško, by majority of the votes of all Members, is appointed vice-governor, member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The elected candidate was appointed to the post of Vice-Governor, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, where the current Vice-Governors, a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, shall expire on 28 February 2017. Vice-Governor, member of the Council of Banka Slovenije mag. I congratulate Joseph Bradesku and wish him a successful job. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a discussion on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 13 July 2016. 12. 2016 is published on e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Bojana Dobovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr Bojan Dobovšek on the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 46. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Branka Grims concerning the SFRJ State Archives relating to the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with a vote of 3 to 50. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of the question of Luke Mesca, which will address the negative consequences of the privatisation of state-owned enterprises in the light of recent developments with Helios. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 10 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the preparation of the Republic of Slovenia for a possible new migratory wave. We're voting. There were 60 Members and Members present, four of whom voted against 51. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to Violet Tomić's question on amendments to the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 11 for them and 47 for them. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matey Vraničar Erman on Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question on the issue of the Ministry's knowledge of the developments in NLB d.d. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 7 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, to the question of the post-Air Traffic Crisis by Dr. Mate T. Vatovec, following the privatisation of the Ljubljana Aerodrome and Adrie Airways. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mrs Jelka Godec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc to Mrs Jelka Godec's question on the decision of the Ministry of Health. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, seven for them and 47 for them. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal, Mr Jožef Horvat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Matey Vraničar Erman on Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the number of criminal disclosures by the members of the DURB Management Board. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u198	So this is one of the key topics that we should focus on in this Slovenia, which is banking crime. The bankers have charged us all more than EUR 2 000 500 of debt, which we will repay in the coming years. And it doesn't help practically anything, not a single banker is sitting behind bars. Nor does it help if the Minister of Justice visits Iceland, where virtually all these bank criminals have been imprisoned. Therefore, I think it is imperative that this Parliament begin to take these topics seriously and in some way also exert pressure on anything to happen in this context. Sometimes, at least in the New Slovenia Group, we have the feeling that this Parliament is breaking up in connection with the stateless bravado. This Parliament is able to spend hours and hours talking about things that are completely irrelevant or less important to people's lives. In a way, however, the themes concerning the great things that have harmed many citizens are so quick to pass us by. That is why I really hope that this time the government coalition will act differently and will support my fellow Member Horvat's proposal to hold a debate on this subject. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of this decision to hold a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u199	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Chairman! A bit of a joke, a little bit for real – even the guts are important if not the other ones to feed, but we could devote less time to it. But no matter what our ideologies, it seems to me that this experience of a bank hole has gotten over it so that we don't take it seriously. And it is formally said that we must have a general debate, but these general debates have probably been too much – a focused debate on this subject needs to be held. We in the United Left will support this proposal, but how the coalition will act, and that is, of course, their responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u201	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Then an explanation in your own name, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't know, I'm confused about the short wings up on the balcony, but I will, although I'm a socialist, support the New Slovenia proposal. Not so much because he would have suspected crime, but because it is a systemic issue of abuse that is taking place in our financial sector, which occurred before the crisis and has been exposed to the crisis, and it has finally passed on to the Bank's Claims Management Society; in fact, it is capitalist "business as mental". This does not mean that the main thieves must not be caught and imprisoned, which is, after all, also the key intention and desire of the proponent and the initiator of this debate, and I will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u203	We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. There were 19 votes in favour and 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, to Miha Kordiš's question on the harmful provisions of the proposed Act on Medical Activity. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. There were 10 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Finally, in line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to Mr Franz Breznik's question on the issue of external guest terraces intended for smokers. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. There were seven votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
