ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 40th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 40th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 9 December 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 65, for 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 40th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law amending the holiday law and the work of the free days in the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 35 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Dr Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! On 2 January, the decision to re-apply as a day off at the celebration of the new year was taken for the same reason — to return to the people what was wrongly taken from them. Of course, there are a number of things that arise in this decision, why we should do all of this — from distracting attention, from the fact that it is supposed to be populism — if you are working for the benefit of people, I think it is difficult to talk about populism or, simply, should it be — that it should be my marriage or anything like that. None of this holds. It is a simple return to the non-ideological tradition; what we have accepted and which has been established since 1955, that is, on January 1st and 2nd, the works were free of charge. And at the time of saving, it also tried to save in a symbolic way where it was unnecessary. On the other hand, various costs are discussed. The fact is that this austerity measure has been adopted in a completely different social and economic climate, which has been a source of savings. At the same time, there were very unclear assumptions about reduced costs and increased productivity associated with this. At that time, there was talk of saving up to €600,000 in the public sector, while estimates of how much should be saved in the private sector were very different. But they came from a simple assumption that it was the same day as all the other days. In fact, saving would be possible if the economy worked in full capacity. In fact, the economy is not working in full capacity on January 2nd, both because of the economic partners it is related to and how life actually takes place in that first holiday week. What's important is that the data was very different; it was about 35 million savings, up to 50, this year 16 So all of these estimates are only approximate. [[…]] However, I know and this is an important argument why this date should be declared a day off – in order to minimise abstention by at least this measure, which is also a major problem in the Slovenian economy following the testimony of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce. So the day of rest is when it is possible to rest and prepare to actually start doing what is actually necessary in order to create the added value that both the economy and the country can operate on. At the same time – and this is very important to know – the number of days off remains on the European average. Previously, the European average was 11.97 days. Before this proposal, there were 11 days in Slovenia, following this proposal there will be 12. Therefore, there is no ideological indication of the measure that we can take, nor do we introduce any new days off or replace these new days off. However, the final point I would like to point out is that I am very pleased that no one on the Committee's proposal has opposed it in practice, which tells me that all the members of the Group agree that January 2nd is once again a day off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! As it is said, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee at its 46th emergency meeting addressed the draft law amending the Law on Holidays and Working Days in the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Applicants, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons participated in the consideration of the work of the home labour force. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and had no comments on it. We have also been presented with the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which, of course, supports the proposal of the law. In the debate itself, it was said that it was coming back again, so that something was not added to the fact that it had been returned for decades on 2 January as a day off. The debate also included, of course, the amendment proposed by representatives from Nova Slovenije, which means that instead of 2 January, two new holidays should be proposed or introduced, which would of course also be free works, namely, on 6 January the three kings or the Lord's proclamation and a large Friday, which would be a moving and also work a day off. The amendment didn't get any support. In the debate, however, the view was expressed that the conceptual content of this amendment would also be more relevant in Article 2 of the draft law setting out the works of the day and that the public holidays, as we know, are set out in Article 1. After a discussion in which no a priori objected to the amendment of the law, the amendments of the New Slovenia Group were not adopted and the committee voted and voted in accordance with the 128th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, thus confirming both articles of the draft law and adopting them, as it was said, without a vote against. No amendments have been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, as I have already said, so the Committee of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending the Act on holidays and work of days in the Republic of Slovenia should be adopted in the text, as you have also received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Peter Pogačar, to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u6	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted its opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on holidays and holidays on Thursday, 8 December 2016 and took the view that it did not object to the proposal. The definitions of holidays and holidays following the Holidays and Works Act shall also be subject to the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, which give workers the right to work away from work on a holiday and work day with the right to pay or to a specific evaluation of work if workers have to work on that day because of the unbroken work or production process or the specific nature of work. The purpose of the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia is to establish by law holidays and holidays that have general meaning or meaning for all or most citizens. Therefore, the arrangements for holidays and holidays must certainly correspond to the actual attitude of our citizens as to the importance of certain dates to be given a special mark. The Holidays and Work Act lays down 13 State holidays, but only 8 are defined as part of the day off, and 6 more are part of the days off that have a religious mark, of which two days always fall on Sunday. The arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia are thus completely comparable to those in other European countries, where the number of vacancies on average ranges between 10 and 15. The fact is that the abolition of the traditional two-day celebration of the new year in our country was adopted in a package of austerity measures under the Public Finance Balance Act in that period of the worst economic and financial crisis. The aim was to provide a larger fund of effective working hours in the public sector and in the economy, which, of course, may have an impact on productivity growth and, as a result, contribute positively to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The public sector savings assessment was then EUR 360 000. At that time, the statistical analysis showed that one working day more on average increases economic activity by a weak half-percent point at a quarterly level, or 0.1 per cent at an annual level. This measure was strongly criticised at the time of the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act as well as later, with a proposal to redefine on 2 January as a part of last year's holiday regime and work of the days off at the time of further determination on 25 October as a sovereign date, which was not adequately supported by a poor economic and financial situation. The proposed increase in the number of holiday days, which are also part of the day off, may mean a drop in working hours and an increase in costs, but the suspension of 2 January as part of the day off over the last four years has not been possible in a concrete manner that would demonstrate the achievement of the Public Finance Balance Act of the objectives pursued. I must point out that the matter governed by the proposal of the law interferes with an area which is, as a rule, part of social dialogue. It takes into account the fact that the holiday arrangements and holidays must always correspond to the actual attitude of citizens with regard to the importance of certain dates, while taking into account more favourable macroeconomic indicators and bearing in mind that, despite the proposed amendment, the comparability of the number of holidays and holidays with the rest of the EU Member States continues to be maintained, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the preliminary amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. He will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u8	Thank you very much again for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! It is difficult to say here, except of course in this introduction, that Members and Members of Desus will be very pleased to support the amendment of the Holidays and Leisure Days Act, as we supported it, but not successfully before a good year ago, when this law was also on our parliamentary benches. We've heard where the end of this holiday begins. It dates back to 2012, if I may say so, to the famous Zuyf, who took this holiday back then. At that time, we believed that he had temporarily taken away this holiday, and today we believe that this temporaryity is over. As it is said, little sadness, little dissatisfaction was, of course, a good year ago, when this proposal failed, it also came upon Desus' support, and so much more today we are pleased that colleagues from the SMC have reconsidered and found it right to return this holiday and give people what they once had. We're bringing back the holidays, but we're not giving up a new one. We return the holiday, which thank God is not ideologically colored, and today we would argue about why and why not. It's a holiday with a decades-old history, a decades-old tradition. Not so bad is the last two-day celebration of the new year. It is not so bad at times when this country is going a little better that we can witness some encouraging economic indicators so that we can witness less unemployment. And if the country is doing better, if the economic, financial and other conditions are no longer so acute, it is also right that people have some of them. And the minimum that people can get out of it — with everything else we are going to work for — is the return of this holiday, that is, on January 2 as part of our day off. I never and never have any calculations as to how much added value we gain, how much percentages or tenths of a percentage of GDP we grow if we do not celebrate and go to work one day and today it is found that these calculations were actually twisted from the vine. [[…]] Let me finish. If again – and I believe that this will – a new two-day New Year's celebration will be established, you are in this place and on this occasion I wish that the new 2017 will not only be symbolic but also in a real way means that it will be successful, happy and inadequately better than many years before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Apparently, the merry December was more than successful in performing its function. Of course, in a year after the last proposal, the Social Democrats have not been able to reconsider and we will also support the introduction of an additional holiday on 2 January. We understand that some economic sectors, particularly tourism, may benefit from this. It is important that we maintain something that has been well received in people, even because they deserve an additional day off, and that there is no need to carry out additional sciences on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. January 2nd is a monument to the irrational saving of the Janša government and all the governments that have come after it. The opportunity for this monument to break down the National Assembly came last year when we proposed to return to the United Left on 2 January as part of our day off. At that time, SMC votes were downgraded, and now the government has paid 80 million Euros to the best of wages, gave 50 million Euros to doctors, and, of course, the biggest government party has taken on a smaller panic and has taken advantage of numerous attempts to repair its public image. But after all, in the United Left, we're not even interested in the proponent's motives. What is important is that this savings monument, however, falls and that the working class plucks out capital claws again on January 2nd as a day off. However, this is not the only opportunity to end the savings that the government has already missed in this mandate, despite the fact that the Socialists agree with us that saving is harmful, its former biggest advocates, such as the International Monetary Fund, also agree. I don't know how many times in the National Assembly we've highlighted information that I promise we won't stop repeating it. For every euro that Zujf and I saved when we saved, gross social product fell by 1.6 euros. Saving is not only socially unjust but also harmful to the economy and public finances. But despite the apparent fall today on January 2nd as a symbol of saving, the content and policies of this savings continue to persist in 2017. The austerity measures introduced as temporary are becoming permanent under this government. SMC, Desus, SD, SDS and NSI instead of ending saving at the weak, they propose even more gifts for the rich. I mentioned earlier that only this year has the income scale changed, with 10% of the best paid people being given 60 million euros, and some in this National Assembly have felt that this was not enough. On the other hand, we have economic growth, for the third year in a row, which is in no way familiar with the standard of living of our fellow citizens. We have a three billion foreign trade surplus, from which exclusively export capitalists, who are employed on a minimum, are absorbed. Even so, this three-year economic growth is unknown and will not be known if this national assembly does not interfere with the measures taken to redistribute wealth. To take where surpluses are created, this is for the rich and for the capital, and this money is spent where it is needed — in the public sector, in the pay group J, for better education, for better health, for the eradication of poverty. And after all, the driver of development is investment, research, the driver of development is not saving. Saving is a route in the Bulgarian direction instead of a path in the direction of a bright view of Denmark. And that's exactly what we're doing in the United Left. The most competitive economies are not those economies with the lowest wages and the most flexible labour market. At the same time, the best competitive economies are the ones with the highest wages. And it is not only time for January 2nd to return as part of the day off; it is time for the savings to be completed in full; it is time for us to allocate fairly, which Slovenian society creates and it is time for the European Robbery to change the march into development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u14	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Looks like the election's really coming up. That's when ruling parties usually start sharing candy. The bill amending the Holidays and Work Act is one of the sweets. In Novi Slovenija we support the appropriate number of work days off. All employees need rest, families need time for themselves. There are very few opportunities for socializing at today's rate. However, we believe that the proposed date of 2 January is not a well-chosen date. This day is in most countries of the European Union, and especially in those with whom Slovenia has the most business, working day. On the contrary, these same countries mostly have work to do on January 6th, when we celebrate the holiday of the Holy Three Kings, which is one of the holidays of the Christmas family. Ten Member States of the European Union, including the three neighbours of the Republic of Slovenia, shall have this holiday of work free of charge. With the amendment before the Committee's meeting, we have also proposed a large Friday, which is a moving day, in addition to the one mentioned for the day's work. The two holiday proposals are open for work in most Member States of the European Union. The great Friday is a moving Christian holiday, which is a holiday and a day off in many countries of the world as well as in the Western world. There is no day or holiday in Slovenia. It's celebrated Friday night before the big night. The big Friday, which is a moving day, has a free day or holiday as part of the following European Union countries: Great Britain, Austria in part, the Netherlands in part, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina in choice, Sweden, Spain, Portugal, Norway, Malta, Luxembourg, Latvia, Estonia, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Germany, Belgium, France locally and could still list. On a large Friday, no payments are made in the international space, European Interbank Payments, TARGET2 is closed. With the proposal of two new days off, we would replace 2 January and 2 May, which is also an exception in the European Area. Unfortunately, the majority on the Committee did not support this proposal. In New Slovenia, we believe that before such proposals, the government should, for example, reduce VAT back to the starting level – all employees would feel more like working a day off – or raise the overall relief to EUR 7 000. And it would not be a gift to the rich, but it would be a gift to the poor, to those with minimal incomes, which are more each day in Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia will not support the proposal of the law. We will not, however, oppose him, because in New Slovenia we believe that the Government should first properly take care of citizens in a way that ensures them a decent life with adequate income.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will move the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Let me say hello first! On 2 January, the decision of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre to become a holiday and work on the day off surprised many. So are we, and certainly publishers and publishers of annual calendars and calendars, if I may have a little fun. The applicants based their decision on the fact that Slovenia is no longer in crisis and the need for a crisis measure, which is supposed to be the end of an additional day off, is no longer the case. Thus it was decided that the holiday of the new year would be celebrated again for two days – a decision that would cheer many up, I doubt it. And we can agree that Slovenia is no longer in crisis. Moreover, Slovenia has been recording economic growth since 2014, at least since then. However, today and in an extraordinary session, we decide that the first day of January 2nd will be in twenty days, once again becoming a day off. Why the applicants did not decide until 30 November, that is, 13 days ago, that the crisis is gone and that there are no more reasons why January 2nd does not become a day off again, we do not know. That's a lot of media speculation, so I'm not doing it today. It is certainly surprising, however, that the Balance of Public Finance Act is still in force. It is therefore a law that emerged in 2012 as an emergency response and a response from the then government to one of the biggest crises in our country. Why, then, do we not decide one single measure today when the crisis is gone, and that is that we no longer need the whole of Zuif? Well, we are confident that we will not get this answer today, even though we would have explained it on the spot. I can tell myself that, already at the end of 2 January, as a free work, I opposed such a decision by the Government, and especially because the decision was accompanied by a justification that economic growth would be higher due to this action. Since it is not possible to measure how much economic growth is increasing if some part of the day’s leave is abolished, such a reason does not make any real sense. The fact is that work is also carried out on 2 January if there are reasons for it, regardless of whether or not it is a day off on 2 January. But the cost of work will be different, higher – so the economists warn – if it is a holiday day. However, if there is no reason to work on this day, then most employees will be at home where work processes allow it. In this case, the difference is whether or not it is necessary to make use of its own discount. We will vote on our own conscience in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u18	Dear Presidents, Dear Fellows and Fellows, Dear Citizens! This year we are discussing for the second time in this Parliamentary reference a holiday which was abolished in 2012 due to austerity measures. Some, of course, wonder why we are now returning January 2nd as a day off. There's more than one reason. It is true that four years ago, as is still the case today, there was a policy of saving and consolidating public finances, but as four years ago, we do not yet have concrete savings calculations at the expense of abolishing this holiday, especially in the economy. But what we do have and know for sure are the facts that show that today, after a good two years of intensive work by the Government of Mir Cerar and after four years of rigorous austerity measures: the lowest unemployment since 2009, promising economic growth forecasts, increasing confidence in domestic consumers, increasing foreign direct investment and a strengthened real estate market. The termination on 2 January as part of a day off was adopted with Zujf in different economic circumstances. As a result, Slovenia had to take austerity measures to improve its public financial position. Today, however, we are seeing a positive trend in reducing the budget deficit. Similarly, real GDP growth was markedly negative at the time of its abolition on 2 January as part of a day off. It was already positive in 2015 and not in 2014, and such forecasts are also for the next two years. Also for the public sector, the re-implementation of 2 January as part of a day off will certainly have a beneficial effect. As has already been said several times, the calculation of the savings of the return on 2 January as part of a free day, which is indeed based on data from 2014, is due to the non-payment of the food regression for all employees in the public sector of more than half a million euros. We must also not overlook the fact that with the novel of the Law on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia, we are returning to Slovenian cultural space a decade old tradition of celebrating the new year. In short, people want to work their day off on January 2nd. They want work to be a day off, and that's because it's the most important thing. With the re-implementation of January 2nd as a New Year's holiday, Slovenia will be placed in the gold middle of the countries of Central European cultural space by day. The reintroduction of 2 January as part of a day off has many positive consequences for citizens who deserve an additional part of their rest, a day they can spend with their families and rest. Public financial and economic imagery is not ideal, but it is improved. The negative trend in the past is turning in a positive direction, which also makes it more specific to redefine 2 January as part of a day off. For these reasons, we will, of course, support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! An old Roman proverb says, "If there is no bread, at least let there be games." And this show for the public today proves it. It proves two – that the Modern Centre Party no longer has any vision of how deeply they have fallen into this political crisis, that there is no positive correlation with the other two coalition partners. Secondly, it proves that, given who is proposing this law, Dr Milan Brglez is likely to officially join the presidential election campaign next year as of today. Let's do it in a row. In 2004 to 2008, during the first Janša government, we had the lowest unemployment rate in the history of the country, and pensions grew by 25% – meaning that pensioners received substantially more than 2 euros each year, as we have witnessed under the government of Mira Cerar – and wages grew, Slovenia was the second least indebted member of the European Union. And for the first time in the history of the country, in 2007, surpluses were made in the budget; that is to say, we got more than we spent. I'm afraid there's been a crisis. Although some of the measures had already been taken by the Janša government, while it was saying good-bye, the next government, the government led by the Social Democrats, had not joined the necessary reforms in view of the crisis, but had peacefully committed itself to buying social peace. Over the three years we have committed 8 billion euros, we have practically spent more than 2 billion euros in the budget and half as much as we have created. Due to the unsustainable public financial picture, we had to take matters into our own hands; when the Slovenian Democratic Party came to power in 2012, we put the country before our own party. The modern centre's client, if I'm not mistaken, had a pre-new consultation Saturday, and I remember Minister Koprivnikar saying, "We're putting the state in front of our own party." Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid that's not true. The economic situation is not yet such as to over-expenditure, as you are currently doing – 80 million euros for those who already have more than those who live every day, 40 million euros for doctors, 210 million euros not yet negotiated for the public sector, 30 million, as we had data for January 1st. In just two months, you'll be spending 40% of that because Zuyf was saving. You are obviously aware that you will no longer rule after the next election, but you will be able to rely on a government that will probably have to take austerity measures again because you are currently recklessly wasting. There was a lot of talk about populism. Interestingly, when we proposed this year that the veterans of the war for Slovenia be returned to the Veteran Supplement, we were called the populace. When we suggested that the apartments owned by the state and were empty for young and young families after non-profit rentals, we were called populace. When we suggested that student vouchers should be extended by two hours, it is said that they were not from eight o'clock to eight o'clock at night, but that they were from eight o'clock to ten o'clock at night, we were called populace. Even because of the many other measures that we have proposed – and now I quote the President of the National Assembly, "as measures that are for the benefit of the people" – we have been designated by your Members and your customers as populists. On the other hand, January 2nd is not a populist holiday. How interesting and how double-faced. You probably watched the reports yesterday about January 2nd. Tourist workers are far from ready. Are primary schools ready, or is the education system ready? No, because they found out on January 30th, and now they're just going to have to adjust some things. In short, further proof that the government of Mira Cerar is working in harmony.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on that bill. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the voting devices. Dr. Mr Trček has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am talking about this because when I listen to all this debate and the explanation, which, let's be clear, is also a bit populism on all sides, we are having a debate with my colleague Hanzko; after all, we have been professionally engaged in social development our whole lives. When I listened to this debate — January 2, yes, no — I must say that it was mainly from all sides of Benin. Benigna why? Look, I come from Maribor, from Maribor. I'm 15 kilometers from the Austrian border. Of all OECD countries, Austria has the most part of the day off. And I don't see and hear anyone from the Chamber of Commerce pulling their hair out of it and not from the economic sector. Economic development is not just a drain after the time, because unfortunately, in Slovenia because of this, here I agree even with the SDS, because there is no vision because there is no serious vision there since 1997, when there was an LDS, some serious economic vision I am also a Member who mostly talks about pennies, by the way. [[…]] When we talked about who's lazy, who's not working in Europe, when we went to look at the analysis, it was seen that in Western countries they're doing less, but they're doing more, I'll say, thoughtful productivity. Unfortunately, we have not done it either during the first Janša government or then into another economy, including several cooperatives, with more economic democracy. And that beats us. And that's the job we have to do. Not that we will insist on an economy which, of course, will extend working hours with too low wages, that people will then have too low pensions and that we will have major problems in the medium and long run with pension bills, health bills and social transfers. And that wasn't in this debate. And this is a debate that we need to launch immediately at the end of January 2nd. Thank you for your word. We're going to vote. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Any other explanation for the voice? Is there anyone else on behalf of the Group of Members? Mag. Alenka Bratusek in her own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I will also support the fact that we can all or most of January 2nd be at home. But I wonder why the coalition rejected a proposal that was already on the table – otherwise it was prepared by colleagues in the United Left – but it was the same? I don't know how you can find out one month before the end of the year that things have changed that way. And I'm really wondering if you've asked yourself what kind of confusion and chaos you're going to do with it. If not elsewhere, I'll only point out one area; it's health. The interventions, the reviews planned for January 2nd will have to be postponed. Where? Of course, you don't care because it has been in health care for the last two years – not only in the last two years, but before – it will be a little more chaos. But this is not the way the state is managed. And if they keep saying that the crisis is over, I urge you to put together a law that abolishes all the measures that are included in the so-called Zujf. There are not 30 cents for pensioners to have full valorisation of pensions, but it is for a populist measure that we will all be home on 2 January. That's how you do it. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Any other explanation for the voice? Mr. Andrey Chush, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to be very brief on this explanation of voice today. I will vote in favour of the bill. However, I would like to point out to colleagues and colleagues from the Modern Centre Party that yesterday I have tabled in the National Assembly the amendment of the Value Added Tax Act, which reduces the value added tax — both levels — to a pre-crisis level and I hope that you have listened to yourself today and that I can count on support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-13-SDZ7-Izredna-40.ana.u27	Can we get to the vote? Once again, please check the voting devices! And we vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. I also conclude the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that the 25th meeting of the National Assembly will begin at 10.05. Thank you very much.
