ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that we cannot attend today's meeting with the following Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Marija Bačič, mag. Jana Jenko, Mrs. Andreja Potočnik, Mrs. Ksenija Rootia Kramar, mag. Lilliana Kozlovich, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec, Dr. Milan Brglez, Mr. Andrej Cuz, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, Dr. Franc Trček from 6 p.m. on, Mr Matjaž Hanžek and Mr Jožef Horvat from 13.30 p.m. on say now. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it is firstly a proposal for a law amending the law on the application of residences. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you very much. We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on Registration of Residence. But in this marriage, I have to say so. It's not exactly a common law. The law was created more than at the initiative of the citizens, if I may say so, although we were then, on my proposal, in the parliamentary group with the co-signers, the ones we have tabled. Why is the marriage filed? Look, I'm gonna make it very simple, so people will understand us. In fact, this law was adopted for the first time or in the last period of 2001, it experienced two amendments, 2006 and 2007. In 2007, as you know, Slovenia received the euro and in 2007 we changed a series of laws where criminal provisions were amended. In fact, more or less all laws were made in such a way that the criminal provision was in tolars, say 200,000 tolars, divided by 239,640, as they were changing the exchange rate for the euro at the time. And a new penalty, expressed in the form of euro, has been prescribed. More or less the laws followed this – to the exchange rate, here and there are individual rules, individual laws have been amended so that penalties have gone up or down for a few euros. Despite the fact that this was Janša's first government, I must make it very clear that there has been an obvious error in this law. Apparently, there was a mistake in this marriage. In fact, why? The law was amended so that the punishments were ten years old. Or, in other words, those penalties that have been expressed in tolars, if we turn them into euro, have been attributed to one nothing. In my opinion, it's a mistake, and I think it's a mistake to admit it, and it happened – what? See, 200,000 tolars, instead of being converted into 800 euros, have been converted into 3,000 euros; one million tolars should have been converted into 4000 180 euros, converted into 25,000 euros or 20,000 dollars, converted into 83 euros, actually changed into a thousand euros -- more than ten times more; or 100,000 tolars, instead of turning them into 418 euros, have been converted into 4,000 euros. Now look what's going on in the field. I will tell you a practical example of me already as the Minister of the Interior warned someone from Kranjska Gora, and I must admit that I then forgot about it, but all the members of the group about four months ago also SMC, including all of you, received a letter from one citizen from Maribor, the owner of a small hotel. [[…]] What did a citizen from Kranjska Gora tell me four years ago? What happened to him? He broadcasts rooms and has there I don't know, 10, 20 rooms. The receptionist or the person who wrote the application forms so-called police station did so instead of the soft č. And look what happened. She got 4,000 euros in fines and he got 25,000 euros in fines as hotel owner. EUR 25 000 of a profit he makes in six months, so if the receptor goes wrong twice a year, he loses his annual earnings and he can close the stallion if we say so. So it's life's punishment for us to propose this law – what? [[…]] We propose only one thing: in fact, the deletion of one zero or, in our own words, the penalties are imposed where they were by 2007. It means that only those tolars have been converted into euros and placed on the table to the parliamentary groups. We are deleting or modifying another provision that says that the fault of the receptor is the owner of the hotel. Look, this is a similar situation as it was in road traffic years ago, when the truck driver, for example, drove to the left where it was banned, and he was punished by the truck driver, and also by the truck owner. That's two illogicalities. Another small change is, I will explain it later from the bench, but I would expect, ladies and gentlemen, to support such a law. But the government is against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Andre Špenga. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings, honourable Members, honourable Members! In the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Registration of Residence, the applicants propose a reduction in fines for offences which the Government does not object to, as the proposal for a new Law on Registration of Residence, which is also part of the Government's 2016 normative programme, takes into account proportionately, and the Government itself has proposed a reduction, and in view of the gravity of the offence, the proposed fines are also lower than those in force. However, as a significant reduction in fines as provided for in the proposed Law on Amendments to the Law on Registration of Residence, it is found that it would not materially achieve the preventive effect of the sanctions at risk given that they are offences against which sanctions are pronounced in a rapid procedure and given that within 8 days half of the fine imposed can be settled. Therefore, the proposed sanction would not achieve its purpose; on the contrary, the number of registered residences would increase. The proposed fine would not have a preventive effect because it is disproportionate to the financial benefits that both the landlord or the legal person responsible could have as well as the individual would have had due to the repeated abandonment of the registration obligation. It also applies to the security aspect of the obligation to register a foreigner who does not have valid residence permits or certificates of residence of the competent police station. Under the proposed Law on Amendments to the Law on Registration of Residence, a fine of EUR 450 could be imposed on the landlord, the person responsible, i.e. the legal person, the natural person or the alien who would not have applied to the police station, and only EUR 40. The current legislation specifies which data the landlords report, but also prescribes which characteristics of the transfer of hotel guest registration data electronically must comply with the programme used by the landlord to register the guest. The latter is set out in Annex 12 to the Regulation on the Enforcement of the Law on Registration of Residence. From the correctness of entering the guest data into the record is also the pairing of the data with the databases of the searched persons. This is a pure security aspect. However, for the accuracy of the data to be entered in the guest register, the person responsible for recording the data shall be responsible for entering the guest record. If the landlord proves that he has done all he has to do to record the data of the guests as derived from the public document. Therefore, it is not comprehensible from the point of view of the evidence that the landlord has done all the necessary, as stated, that data are entered into the guest records as derived from the public document. We add that the valid definition of the landlord already includes an authorised person for registration in the guest register, as it provides that the landlord under this law is also considered a legal person or independent entrepreneur by an individual who provides reception services on behalf of or on behalf of other landlords. With regard to the deletion of the provision on the non-requirement of the application of temporary residence for individuals who, as nationals who have been recognised as having an objection to military duty for the purpose of performing a replacement civil service or other prescribed training for the protection and rescue of persons, are resident in the premises of the organisations carrying out that service or training. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia explains that in 2003 there was indeed a suspension of individual elements of military duties in peace, but it was not a re-disposal of all institutions, since in the event of an increase in the risk of an attack on the country or a direct war threat, or when a state of war or emergency was declared after the decision of the National Assembly, the latter could be reinstated. There are also some trainings still under way, I must mention basic 15-week military training, training for officers and officers in which these persons reside in these accommodation facilities in the Slovenian Army or the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič has a presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The drafter of the SDS Parliamentary Group in the amendment to the Law relating to the application of residence proposes amendments to Article 14 of the Law, which regulates the non-requirement of the application of temporary residence and refers to the deletion of the indent relating to the recognition of objection to the conscience of military duty. Article 15 refers to keeping records of guests. It is proposed to amend the third paragraph of that Article. In this paragraph, the provision refers to the accuracy of the entry of the data into the guest register. It is also proposed that certain fines should be reduced as the applicant considers that they are not proportionate. The introduction of the amendment states that the motions for this amendment have led to amendments to individual provisions – what has led to this? In January 2016, the applicants found that the fines in certain provisions were disproportionate, and also pointed out that in 2013 they had detected a case in the media where the owner of a hotel incorrectly entered the guests, without the foresters, and therefore received a fine. Respectable applicants in 2007 when the Janša government sent an amendment to the legislative procedure, with which it also applied to fines, did not detect any disproportionateity; even more so. The proposal was written down, and I quote: "... 7. Amendments to the criminal provisions to the draft law constitute compliance with the law on the introduction of the euro, which increases the fines prescribed in the range on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. The amount of the fine, according to the applicant, shall be determined in proportion to the gravity of the offences. We have also come from a memory of the value that protects the system when raising the lower limit. The registration of an individual at the address where he actually resides is a fundamental purpose of the law and represents a public interest in the exact and full records of permanent and temporary individuals in the territory of the State. The bill also eliminates the shortcomings of the current law, which did not sanction individual infringements or omissions, such as the suspension of the temporary residence, the suspension of the application of temporary residence by a foreigner." End of quote. Dear applicants, we can agree with you that the fines are disproportionate, but we cannot understand that you only noticed this in January 2016 and that it is only now that the 2013 event has reached your heart, that is, 3 years later. In 2007, the legislator followed government arguments as to why the proposed fines were justified when considering and adopting the novel, which provided for such a high fine. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that this consideration of the amendment of the bill is only a matter of cheap personal television promotion, which can be linked to the following. The 2007 news with 29 articles, which provided for such high fines, was dealt with in a reduced procedure, most likely with a desire for as little attention as possible, at least as regards fines. However, this 6-article amendment is dealt with following a regular procedure, which is of course nothing wrong at all, and it is interesting that, at the request of the applicant, it is considered in the general debate, probably because of the desire to show how the biggest opposition party is susceptible to this issue. The conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration will not be supported, but we will be very careful in the proposed amendment to the Law on Registration of Residence, not only on fines, but also on the second content of the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your floor. The proposal for a new Law on Registration of Residence relates in particular to the amount of penalties imposed on offences relating to the application of residence. The problem in this area was best demonstrated in the 2013 media report, when it was the case of the hotel owner in Gorenjska, who was fined 4 000 euros for the misapplication of his guests. In this case, it was not that he did not report his guests; he reported them, but he did not introduce the correct noisers into the application because the program did not recognize them. Nevertheless, an order of EUR 4 000 was issued to him. In the United Left, we agree that the fines laid down in this law are excessive; they range from 400 to 25,000 euros. It is true that the proposal may not have been best written and that there are some concerns about it, but we do not think that this is a reason for rejection. All shortcomings can be addressed during the process and we will therefore support the proposal at this stage in the United Left. Even though we agree with the proposal, we cannot go beyond the duality of the candidates on the one hand and, on the other hand, the government and, as a result, the entire coalition. The motion itself stated that, I quote, "From the materials of the National Assembly accompanying the amendments to the 2007 Act," I quote, "there are no apparent reasons which led the legislator to such an increase in fines and also to an argument as to whether certain fines are proportionate to the extent of the offence." End of quote. Therefore, the SDS itself is clear that it did not justify enough the proposal adopted by the then-Janšev government. Under the law was signed by then Minister Dragutin Mate and under the decision of the Government then President Janez Janša, and the law was passed in the coalition SDS, Nova Slovenija, Slovenian People's Party and Desus. The bill clearly states that the fines are raised on the proposal of the then Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovr Šturm. It even states that they should be determined in proportion to the gravity of the offences and resulting from the importance of the value protected by this. This value, however, is intended to be a public interest according to accurate data in the Register of Permanent Populations. More! When the media reported bureaucratic nonsense in the case of the owner of the Vitranc Hotel, Janša’s government was still in power. The law could be amended as soon as the next day, but it was decided only nine years after the adoption of the law and three years after the media report. Now that he is in opposition, the law they have written themselves is said to be a mistake — but why not after nine years? So much for the frankness and well-intention of the proposers. On the other hand, there's no better government. The government does not exactly support any opposition proposal, even if it agrees with it. This happens practically every time we consider the opposition proposal. However, the arguments are almost always the same: the government agrees with the proposal, but it is already preparing similar changes. This is a purely good argument for the Government to deny the proposal support. However, it is always followed by a coalition. We have also proposed several solutions in this mandate in the United Left, which the Government and the coalition quickly rejected with an argument that they would support, but that they would rather find their own solutions. These solutions, of course, then we can never wait. And it's going to be like this today. As has already been said, in the United Left we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u10	Your Honor! In Novi Slovenija, we already gave the Minister of the Interior a written initiative in November 2015 to amend articles 23 and 24 of the Law on Registration of Residence. The reason was exactly the same as the amendment proposed by the SDS today, so the Members of New Slovenia will, of course, support the proposal. Making mistakes is human; confessing them and correcting them is wise. Better late than never. Threatened fines in the current law are disproportionately high, especially for those infringements of the law where a low level of liability for violators is sufficient to enforce them. It is often the case that a tenant who is an independent entrepreneur is fined EUR 3 000 simply because he has not entered all the required data into the guest’s application or cancellation form. It's also often because he couldn't get that information from a guest. For a mere administrative disadvantage such a high fine is neither proportionate nor fair and does not follow the principle of proportionality in relation to the nature and degree of the offence. The fact is that the activity of the state-of-the-art is carried out by largely smaller economic operators or natural persons operating on relatively low incomes. The payment of such high fines often means the closure of their activities. In particular, such an arrangement hampers the economic initiative in the field of tourism and hospitality, as independent entrepreneurs and natural persons do not choose to carry out such activities because of the harsh penal law, but still have a large potential in Slovenia. That argument is also fully supported by the Government, but unfortunately, as we have already learned, the amendment's proposal, in its opinion, is not suitable for further consideration. Reason: The Government is preparing its proposal for a new law, in which it will also reduce fines considerably. If so, then in Nova Slovenija we propose to the Government to consider changes to the law in the work which speaks of the registration of the residence of a large number of persons at the same address. This is a number of cases where, for example, more than 10 people are temporarily registered in a one-bedroom house, mostly foreigners who do not actually live at this address, and in this way elections can be obtained in small municipalities, which is what is happening and we have cases. We also propose to consider the reasons and procedure for unilateral residence cancellation by the owner of the apartment, i.e. that the persons who have been checked out will be deprived of their rights, their residence will become formal social work centres. Otherwise, the Government has seen all the problems mentioned for a long time, and we hope that its proposal for a new law will bring solutions to all these problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Vice-President, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! In the SMC Group, we will not support the proposed amendment to the Home Registration Act submitted to the National Assembly by SDS Members. Not just because of the government’s opinion, which brings us to the knowledge that she has approached the preparation or has already prepared a completely new Law on Registration. The SDS proposal is bad. Since 2001, the law on residence registration has not changed much in 15 years. The only amendments were adopted in 2006 and 2007, i.e. in the mandate of the government led by Janez Janša, as well as the competent Minister for Home Affairs was of the SDS. Therefore, the comments made by Members that there are no specific reasons why the legislator in 2007 has led to an increase in applications and also a failure to substantiate whether such a certain amount of fine is proportionate to the level of the offence is not comprehensible. Not only were they leading the government, that the competent minister was their member, but the SDS was the largest group of the ruling coalition in the National Assembly. Because of the latter, the SDS also bears the highest responsibility for the arrangements they are opposed to today. In the SMC Group we allow the possibility that SDS has seen its error and that it wants to correct a mistake. Unfortunately, their proposal comes a little late, so the question is whether it is at all genuine. The SDS did not come under the previous mandate when it ran the government and the Ministry of the Interior. Even in 2013 and following the sentence of the fine for an offence cited by the applicants as an essential reason for the current changes, the SDS did not make any proposal for amendments. It was not until 2016 that the SDS moved into the Government's regulatory work programme for 2016 that this government included a completely new Law on the Registration of Residence, which provides for individual offences with lower fines on the contrary. In the SMC Group, we also draw attention to the proposal's non-professional approach to creating fines for individual offences. It should be borne in mind that the basic function of sanctions is general prevention and cannot be achieved through the creation of very low fines, especially in the light of the fact that the legislation on offences lays down so-called halves. So within 8 days, only half the fine can be settled. Registration of residence is not only of a registered nature, but registration of residence is also a prerequisite for the exercise of individual rights. For example, permanent residence is subject to active and passive electoral rights, social security rights, family rights and could also be listed. In practice, it is common for individuals to abuse the institution of residence registration by reporting them on addresses where they do not actually reside. Therefore, it is not surprising that the number of procedures is increasing to determine the actual residence. In its opinion, the Government states that on administrative units over the last 5 years, an average of 13 000 190 procedures for determining actual permanent residence have been introduced. In order to prevent fictitious applications, the SMC therefore believes that more effort is needed and not less than the SDS is proposing. Otherwise, in the SMC Group, we are even refusing that legislation should be amended on a case-by-case basis. Members of the SMC do not wish to determine whether the criminal authority in the law has done the right thing in that case, but note that the legislator determines only the amount or extent of the penalty and cannot affect the conduct of the criminal authorities in specific cases. It is up to the criminal authority and not the legislator to assess the circumstances and severity of the offence before a sentence is passed. At the same time, we think of the objectives and purposes of the proposaler as completely contrary to what has been done so far in the National Assembly. In its discussions, the SDS has always stressed the security aspect and the fight against terrorism, and we would like to point out that the police need information on the guests, that is, the tourists who are staying with us, to ensure the safety of citizens and others. Such data shall be verified in the records of the persons sought. Finally, we are also bound by European legislation and international agreements. At the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, and especially after accession to the Schengen, the police are also obliged to use databases on wanted persons of the Member States of the Schengen States. In addition, the Interpol police must seek out persons for whom international tyranny has been issued. The police also check up on up to 2,000 people or tourists at the annual level. With regard to the SDS proposal to delete the last indent of Article 14 of the current law, they would point out the opinion of the Government which opposes the last proposal. The Government's arguments would not be fully repeated, but we understand that we cannot just stop these institutions, but we can only leave them in peace, because they can be reactivated in the face of immediate war or when the state of war or emergency is declared. In view of the fact that the SMC Group does not consider the proposal appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, Secretary of State! The Law on Registration of Residence was adopted in 2001 and has been amended twice since its entry into force to date, for the first time in 2006, and has undergone more extensive changes and additions in 2007. In the SDS, in view of the fact that our legislation no longer has a mandatory military deadline and therefore alternative forms of military service, we propose deleting the last indent of Article 14 of the existing law. We further propose to amend the third paragraph of Article 15 of the Law concerning the responsibility for entering data into the guest register and the accuracy of the data. According to the existing law and to the accuracy of the data entered in the guest register, the landlord or person employed by the landlord who is authorised to record the data in the guest register shall be responsible. We are aware of the case in 2013 when the owner of the Cranian hotel was fined 4 000 euros for entering the names of four guests into the state record without noise. He was fined despite the fact that the guests were registered and paid a tourist tax. So, the guests were logged in, but no noise, because the hotel's registering program did not allow noise writing. That's not news. If you go abroad, for example, if you apply for a visa somewhere, you know you can't register any noise. That is why we are asked the question of the significance of the offences or the fine imposed on us in the light of the extent of the offence. According to the existing legislation, a fine of EUR 3 000 to 25 000 is punishable by a legal person or independent entrepreneur and a fine of EUR 1 000 to 4 000 100 is punishable by the person responsible for the offence. For this reason, we propose that the third paragraph of Article 15 should be supplemented by the following: "The data entered in the guest register shall be kept accountable by the authorising officer. To the extent that it proves that it has done everything necessary to record the data in the guest records as derived from a public document, the person responsible for the accuracy of the data shall be the person responsible for entering the data into the guest register." We further propose to amend the criminal provisions for the suspension of the registration obligation provided for in Articles 23, 24 and 25 of this Act. Criminal provisions impose a fine where a legal person, independent entrepreneur or natural person leaves an application-responsible obligation in the event of not registering or checking out an individual who is established or staying in a tourist, guest or accommodation facility within a prescribed period of time, does not report or cancel an individual to a competent police station or competent authority within the prescribed time limit, does not report to the competent police station or register a foreigner who is established in a residential facility and does not have a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia, does not maintain, or fails to keep, the guest records of the guests, does not record accurate data from the guest register for at least one year from the date of the entry of the individual into the register or does not destroy them in a prescribed manner and does not allow the staff of the competent authority and the police to look into the guest records or to them. In the first paragraph of Article 23 of the 2007 Act, the fine for the above mentioned cases for a legal person or independent entrepreneur was converted to EUR 3 000 and a fine of EUR 25,000. Also, the fine of 20,000 tolls for offences committed by the responsible person in the second paragraph of Article 23 of the Law Amendment was converted into a thousand euros and a fine of 100,000 tolars into 4 thousand 100 euros. In the first paragraph of Article 24 of the Law, the fine for the offence of a natural person was EUR 400 and the fine was EUR 100,000. In all cases, in 2007 there was no change in terms of exchange rate, but in all cases there was an increase in fines. The materials of the National Assembly, which were submitted to the legislative procedure of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Registration of Residence in 2007, do not show the reasons which led the legislator to increase fines at that time, nor does it justify whether the amount of fine thus fixed is proportionate to the degree of the offence. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose a reduction of fines for the offence of a legal person or independent entrepreneur referred to in the first paragraph of Article 23 to EUR 900 to 4 thousand. For the other fines for the offence of the legal person or natural person referred to in Articles 23, 24, and 25, it is proposed that they amount to between €80 and €400. Our proposals for a reduction are based on the 2007 exchange rate between the tolar and the euro on fines that were in force before the amendment of the law in 2007. It is true that our proposals in some cases are also lower by half and more depending on the fines imposed under the law currently in force, but in the SDS we believe that, with the revised amount of fines punishable by legal or natural persons for offences committed by the suspension of the application-registration service, we follow the proportionality given the gravity of the offence. We are convinced that current fines for violations are disproportionately high in relation to their consequences, so we are also proposing an amendment and we will support this law in this first reading, so that the Slovenian Democratic Party's vote is on this proposal because we want to reduce fines and leave some eccentric cases, which we have heard people have already paid high penalties in the past. True, we, as Dr. Gorenak had already said, regulated this law, but you know, we have been running one government for four years, another government for more than one year, and whoever works, is also sinning. We do not have a problem, and we often admit in the National Assembly that we have made a mistake. But the Slovenian Democratic Party has been in this Parliament since the independence of this Slovenia, for a long time, and we will have a great deal of opportunity to amend the legislation. This is no problem for us, which is why we are proposing this today. I know that this debate will go in a direction, because you are responsible for why you did not propose this when you were in power in Slovenia we have so many laws and other acts that nothing can be regulated. [[…]] We are talking on the contrary, we are looking at it in the parliamentary group, even when we receive different letters and messages from our electorates and voters, what is to be arranged, but you cannot, of course, do everything in one or two mandates. However, the proposal is on the table, rejecting this proposal only because, as you will say, it is probably not systemic, reminds me of traineeships. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed the internship twice, it was returned twice because you said you would arrange it, we even agreed that you would arrange it within three months. It's been a year and a half — nowhere, no results. The results of this government are not: I don't know, Mr Ferluga, how much time is left. If you expect to do everything in 2018, then you are deeply wrong. In short, we are in favour of this proposal because we have prepared it as well. We have prepared it well-intentioned, and many such proposals will be made, and the penalties are very strict, and people are being hunted as they were written there, and on the other hand, you allow them to be stolen in various companies. The last case is Alpina Jury. So start dealing with what you're called on the government for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u16	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! Today we are considering a proposal for a law on residence registration submitted by the SDS Group. It must be acknowledged that the proposal for that law is very welcome at the time of the first reading, as it also provides for a reduction of fines for offences. However, it should be stressed that the reduction of fines as proposed in the law could lead to an increase in the number of fictitious registered residences and, most importantly, the fines provided for in the bill would not achieve the preventive effect of the sanctions at risk. Regrettably, the very practice of misappropriation of the institution of residence registration is that individuals report residences on addresses where they do not actually reside and, in particular, landlords leave the guest application for financial benefits, indicate the following: in administrative units, on average, over the last five years, as many as 13,000 190 procedures have been introduced to determine the actual permanent residence as a result of the suspension of the obligation to register or change or cancel residence by individuals. As has already been said, such a proposed reduction in fines would only increase this number. The fact is that the data in the population register are incorrect because of these abuses of residence registration. As a result of this fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already drafted a draft law on the registration of residences, with which it first wants to ensure the consistency of the register of permanent residents with the actual state of residence of individuals and to prevent the abuse of the institution of the registration of residence. The government proposal also provides for individual offences for half the lower fine in relation to the fines prescribed in the applicable Act on Registration of Residence. In view of the above and the fact that the 2016 legislative work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia includes a completely new Law on Registration of Residence, the Desus Group considers that the proposal of Members and Members of the SDS is not suitable for further consideration. The Law on the Registration of Residence requires a complete overhaul, which will already be at the table of Members and Members of the National Assembly this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go. Excuse me, proposer Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much, or I've been waiting for SD to say. Yeah, they said it first! Presidents, you have not interrupted anything – as it is also the custom not to present the parliamentary positions of the groups. I've suffered a little here. I suffered from the stupid things I heard. But I will try, and I must be polite – now you have placed a woman in the first line of battle. At least it's a coalition. With women arguing, it's a little harder because then you look like a man. That's why I'm gonna be very polite, but direct. First the Secretary of State. You answer me one question. why and how to speak of too much reduction, if it is the same money as it was in the Tolars. For the same money he was in tolars! Because then it would go to other laws where tolars turned into euros and at the exchange rate for the same thing. It's not working. Look, one more thing. The reason given in the government’s opinion, yes — what do we suggest? That those who serve a military term that is no longer our law say that a policeman does not have to report to a police single home, that a soldier does not have to register in some military capacities owned by the military, and so on and so forth. [[…]] Among other things, the law says that those who serve military service instead do not have to apply to a church, a social work center, a pensioner’s home, where they serve a replacement military service. However, we no longer have military service as replacements. And if we don't have it anymore, it's an unnecessary provision in the law. Now look what the government says. Yeah, but it'll be necessary in the war. But in the war? I hear there's some other rules in the war! I mean, it's really impossible. By the way, the Secretary of State, look, in Kranjska Gora, someone, as we have heard, made a firm statement, because the program did not allow him and he did not receive EUR 4 000, as Mrs Tomićeva said. That's what the receptionist got, and the owner's got 25 grand. He's got 25 grand! Now tell me how many of your police officers at the southern border describe those who cross the border. Male, female, child. Male, female, child. The dots are working. Don't paint me! It's different now that you have a quota of 580. Doesn't he get four grand in fines or what? I mean, it's an interesting story. Interesting thing. As for Mrs Muršič, please let her know that she is an extremely rude woman. Instead of arguing in an argument, as Mrs Slug at least tried, and Mrs Kovacic, she started setting fire. The eyewitnesses to the government of Janez Janša. Yeah, I said we were wrong! I said we were wrong! Then what's wrong with this? Ludmila Novak said well that it is human to admit a mistake and it is wise to correct it. I was the one who predicted that we were most likely wrong at the time. She said, "Your mistake, your mistake, your mistake." Further, the media promotion is better for us. Further – what else did she say – "why didn't you react?" All of you, all the parliamentary groups received a letter from the Maribor gentleman last November, according to my information – I don't know what it's called, that I won't be doing any commercials. You texted him from the SMC, yes, we'll handle it, you didn't respond, and I wrote the law on behalf of the MPs. You could have done it in the SD on the basis of that letter. You just have to read a few letters to the citizens. I can't understand the Vice-President of the National Assembly beating up those of us who admitted it was a mistake. But she imagines something – whether someone writes it or writes it herself – and then comes and takes that gun out, on the charge, o-hey partisan, prrrrr, and shoots down those rounds of yours, and then goes home or out of the office. But I must say that Mrs Tomic presented me with a very pleasant surprise. I must say that I did not expect – given that this is my last term, perhaps not yours, perhaps I do – to hear something like this at some point: that Mrs Tomic would support our proposal. I don't know if you know. That is so, it is a serious question whether the situation is improving – and I can congratulate you, I can congratulate you, all right. But I have to say something, you said it wrong there, that innkeeper, the owner of the hotel in Kranjska Gora didn't get 4 grand, he got 25,000. Can you imagine? The 600-euro-pays receptionist received 4,000 euros. So much for fixing it. Thank you very much for supporting this. As for this work, I answer you as Lady Servant. True, the media coverage was 2012/2013 from Kranjska Gora. I must say, in my role as Interior Minister, I reacted by calling this man to Kranjska Gora and having a conversation with him. I must say that he was very surprised that I reacted to the media report and called him on the phone as the Interior Minister and assured him that I would do everything possible to change the legislation. However, in explanation, I will tell you, Mrs Servant, but with a slightly different tone, I must say this because she spoke to me in a different tone. Look, this was in my December 2012 opinion, but I met in December 2012 with the question of how many thousands of people will be out here on the streets. Are we gonna have any dead cops? Will we have any dead citizens? Ladies and gentlemen, this was my first occupation. Believe me, if I'm very honest, I forgot to talk to this gentleman from Gorenjska, and the other part was essential. On 8 January 2013, it became clear when Desus said: Arrivederci, when the People's Party said the same thing and, of course, when Virant told the same story, the coalition was over. And on January 8, 2013, I couldn't do this anymore, even if we sent such a law, I'd probably be stuck somewhere. But you know, Mrs. Sluga, those thousands, 2,000, 5,000, 10,000 people, and the 25 thousand most who have broken up here outside, who have damaged 100 Slovenian police officers, have consequently allowed 100 Slovenian police officers to sit there now. And that's the result. But if you were the Home Secretary at the time, I don't think you'd know where your head is. And there's no offense. But it's simply that I don't take any notice when I admit on behalf of the party and myself that we made a mistake, that I didn't react in 2012 – and now I explain why – you're telling me that: with 25,000 people out here, with 200 people who attacked the police most harshly, they set fire here in front of parliament and I don't know what they were doing, it was my job to take care of the safety of citizens and police. More than that money we're talking about here today. That's why I don't accept your visions. Mrs. Servant, one more thing. The SDS is responsible – because I've confessed to what you're telling me now. You do something else! But you know, I have a chance to confess on behalf of the SDS, we made a mistake, so we suggest we fix it. And you, Mrs Slug, will certainly make a lot of mistakes, but you won't have the chance to fix them, because you won't be here anymore. That's the problem. I'll give it to you politely. So, SDS is responsible – yes, it is, I confessed it on behalf of the party! But you're not ready to fix it. With regard to 2012-13, I also told you why this happened. The sentence is too low. Tell me why the rest of the laws don't. The Road Traffic Safety Act was fine there – then, in 2007 I am speaking – changed. They shared the sentences with 239,640 and wrote new penalties in the euro. Why wasn't there raised ten times? What happened to the government back then? Why did he react, apparently, to the Justice Minister? Yes, I don't know, I don't even remember being a member of the government back then, even though I was sitting at government meetings, but I don't know what happened in 2006-2007. This is simply not true because we are putting them in a state like it was before 2007. I'd be very happy to see Mr. Ferlugo there. Why? Because he was at the police station, he knows what this is about, and he can think of everything. You read something, okay, it's your personal decision. But look what you said. You listed a number of reasons why it is necessary to report residence. Yeah, we're not talking about that. We are not talking about why I, you, you or any other citizen must report residence to live in Celje, Rogaška Slatina, Ljubljana, Cyprus - wherever. That's not what we're talking about! We're talking hotel registrations and private rooms, that's what we're talking about. But you are speaking, listing why residence should be declared. That's not what we're talking about. Please take some of the minutes you still have available and what do you have to say about Apollo 11 landing on the Moon. Well, that's fine, then. But that's not today's theme! Look, you've been talking about how you don't go into the work of criminal organs. Yeah, we don't either. Tell me more about gynecology then. We don't say anything in this law about criminal organs. We don't even talk about it. Infringement authorities are law-abiding criminal authorities, and we are not intruding. The police need accurate data for terrorism – come on! That's what Mrs. Kovacichova said. Have you ever looked across the border at a hotel abroad? Those who go abroad, former Minister of Defence, President of the National Assembly, have certainly walked extensively abroad — either officially or privately. You know very well that you have a number of hotels abroad today that throw a sheet of paper at your desk and so on and write down the data. If you write there that Arafat is this one and this one, that's fine. We are one of the few in Europe that we are on the clear footing that we report to the police in such short periods of time with the registration of hotels' residence. One of the few we do it in such a strict sense. You have many hotels abroad, where you will not show any ID, no passport, but you will fill out the information. And another thing is, if you're talking about terrorism, terrorists won't officially sign up with their identity card and passport. Mrs Slug, it won't work – I see you've got professional help, I'll break up, and I'll come back to you in the end. Mrs. Kovacic, reduction of fines. Don't say it's too big. We're getting him where he was, where he was supposed to be. Ms Kovačičeva also mentioned that people would not then apply and so on. It's not about that application. It's about registering guests at hotels, not registering you or me at some address. And, of course, the lady also spoke of 13,000 findings of administrative units where someone lives. Yes, the information relates to the verification of the permanent or temporary residence of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not to the registrations in hotels. Talk about real things! I'll be polite, I'll wait, because Mrs Slug has professional help and then I'll be further prepared. I have a lot more to say for you, but I want you to take care of yourself in the framework of professional assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. There is no replica, since there has been no debate yet, these were only presentations of the positions of the groups of Members, of course, for both ladies. Please. I give my word to Mr Janko Webra, to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, and I'm a very good-bye. In the framework of the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Registration of Residence, it is indeed possible to give an assessment immediately, and whoever admits the error can be forgiven immediately by half, it is already, I would say, somehow by nature, and I myself see the matter this way. True, we must be careful not to go from extreme to extreme. So, if once or now the current solution was truly disproportionate to the benefit, for example, created by someone who deals with guest activity or accommodation, it is, of course, necessary to actually reexamine and see where that proportionality is and as it is from the Government's point of view, the government is aware of it and will also try to find a solution that will, in the framework, I hope, really, these proportions between what someone can earn, and between what punishment they can then, if they do not comply with the rules, we impose. Nevertheless, I would point out that the situation has changed significantly since 2007 and when we are in 2016 from a security point of view. This recording and monitoring of people who are in Slovenia either as a completely normal guest – of course everything is perfect and there are no problems, but at some point the problem can arise and then traceability is very important if we want to find out what it was and to prevent any other consequences that might have arisen. Thus, in this light, I believe that the text of amendments to the law should also be drafted because we are aware of the changed security situation. Therefore, I think it is also important to be careful not to go to another extreme where the penalties are so very low, but at the same time, of course, they can also cause some, I would say, shortcomings that lead to the fact that someone as a guest is not registered. Of course, as stated and presented in the Government's position, it is also extremely important that accurate data be entered, as far as the person sought is concerned, or not least, if we look back on or take into account the adventures, extremely serious things that have happened in Slovenia as well, if the person you are looking for is missing, it is very important that you also have accurate information and you can solve a whole range of problems in finding the missing. With regard to the fact that we do not yet have a recruitment system in Slovenia and that, as a result, there is no need to acknowledge to anyone the objection to conscience in military duty, of course in itself, if this is currently recorded in the law, it is written down and does not actually do any problems to anyone. However, it is true that, in my opinion, I have also repeatedly pointed out this, during this period, to open a debate on whether, in view of the changed security situation, it would not be necessary to reopen the debate on the recruitment system and to find out how best to introduce young people, who are very little familiar with the tasks that may come not least when the measure can be applied due to tightened security conditions, wars and so on. I think we can assess that these younger generations who enter, of course, with the great elan on the path of their careers, are not really familiar with these dangers. The recruitment system is certainly one of those that gives you many guidance on how to act in life, if you come into such or different situations, and how you can actually organize yourself, if this collective spirit, cooperation is to be organized, and if you want, also commanding and carrying out tasks. Given that we are late in this debate, it would be indeed premature to delete this provision in this application law until we have cleared up this issue. This seems to me to be the most rational solution and not to do anything that might come in handy tomorrow. Thus this law, which we have at our disposal, has, of course, raised important questions and I think that through this debate, which is being held today in the National Assembly, we will already have some feelings, reflections, views on what needs to be taken into account. I am sure that the Government will also be able to produce even more quality text of the law on the basis of today's debate than it would have otherwise been possible if this debate had not been held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go, Mrs. Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me, of course, go first to the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think that colleague Vinko Gorenak made it clear and out loud when the matter, when this solution, which is not appropriate, was accepted, who is responsible for it. We have also said something else that we are not talking today about some systemic and radical changes to the Law on Registration of Residence. Today we have not proposed a change as a whole. These are small changes that may be crucial to citizens and citizens facing this problem at a given time. That's why I don't think every moment lost is necessary, and I really don't understand the government here. But I probably understand it from another point of view, which I'm going to say a little later. Somehow I also have to get my hands on Mrs Muršič's statement or debate. It is clear to us what we have done, with her party sitting in this same Parliament at the same time, extremely socially sensitive. And an amendment was proposed, and it was rejected. That wasn't there. So, if we've already missed this, how come you haven't seen it before? Today is the main observation at the Slovenian Democratic Party. It's nothing! But we are not talking about the epic, because we have said out loud that it was probably a mistake and that proportionality is not guaranteed here. Of course, we can deal with each other in one way or another. We're just trying to fix it. Of course, the government is preparing its law again, as we have experienced it on so-called, or so-called asylum laws, so we will now see this law. Of course we'll be, I can tell in advance, all of us are just disappointed. Then I heard from Mrs Slug's colleague that this is a non-professional approach regarding the imposition of penalties or fines. Unprofessional approach! Then, my dear colleague, I wonder how you haven't opened all the laws where there are fines and penalties from when they are actually – the counselor laughs, I hope he said it in time – but how come you haven't opened all the other laws in these matters? Because then all that was true today was unprofessional, because the fact is that it was only about changing one currency into another currency; and this is a non-professional approach. The penalties and fines did not change because that was not the case! At that time, it was only about adapting legislation to new currencies. There's probably been a mistake here, lapsus, because the calculations show that this is the case and this was an unprofessional approach. Then the most interesting thing is when the government is somehow trying to apologize for rejecting it. He says, yes, but that proportion won't hold up, it's too low. No, it's not true, say it out loud! The proportionality would be maintained if we followed our proposals, but you have to raise the fines because you have to fill the state cash register with someone else because you fail elsewhere, and the easiest with penalties, fines and so on. And it was also very well managed by the very sensitive United List of Social Democrats, when, we remember, in the context of the agricultural sanctions, it raised such enormous amounts that people literally crossed and did not know whether agriculture should continue or not. It's just politics. It can be based on you raising fines, penalties, but you can create conditions for the economy to live and that it will also make it easier for the country to operate. You know, criminal policy, criminal policy isn't always positive, because everybody already knows that. Otherwise, here I welcome the government proposal, which stipulates that it will also go to the so-called warnings as a first warning and so on. They have been doing this elsewhere for a number of years in other areas to introduce this, but let's not do that yet. Today we have the opportunity to help someone in concrete terms tomorrow because something like this might happen to them. That's what this is about. When you point out that some things in marriage are not good, such as that the landlord does everything necessary, and the government wonders, yes, what is now defined here in "everything necessary". You know, a lot more is defined here than in your so-called asylum law, where you write that "the applicant must give his intention as soon as possible". Run, come on! But the shortest possible time is definite, and everything's fine there! Here, when he makes clear what his duties are — the one who is the landlord, it is said, is immediately aware of what his duties are, and when we point out that he does what is necessary, that is too little for you. One more thing, at least this article about military service could really get out. Now that you're talking about some forms, and in extraordinary circumstances, when we're talking about war, it might be necessary. First of all, there are completely different laws at the time of peace, we act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and all the rest, if such situations occur, the state operates slightly differently. That's what you know. But I ask you, if that is the case, then during some extraordinary wartime situation in Slovenia you will hunt people if they have correctly registered temporary residence. Probably not, so it's probably not for that time, and that's just a stupid argument. Indeed, given that the government or the ministry has a large apparatus, these arguments could be rejected if you are already refusing because of the opposition's proposal, of course, they would have done so in some other way. The fact is that it is known when it was written, or the indent of this article, that it is known when it was written, what it was intended for, and that it is no longer in the country. Which is, if it's what it's gonna be, we'll be there when it's done. This isn't happening right now. We probably won't be doing anything for supplies now or waiting for it to be back to the way it used to be. I hope not, because then there will be something else like it used to be. That's not what we want. In short, I am personally pleased with this message from the United Left, which will support the amendment, no matter what, but once again: it is not a problem that we have remembered today and what we have done before. Just when it is. I think that Mr Gorenak has explained how the matter has been going on, why it has not happened before, today that citizens are once again reminding us of this, we have immediately proposed this. I don't think we need to look here for any other reasons for our proposal than just that we want things to be done in proportion. There's nothing else to do with it. It's our only wish. But the coalition will decide in its own way, probably this law is bad again, it is unprofessional, although it only speaks of changing the three articles – it will already hold that it is unprofessional –; bad, probably because it has only three articles, but it is important. But it is important; it is important for those facing these problems, and it would be good to support it. No matter what we do, no matter what we do, it would make sense for us to do so. Of course, perhaps the biggest problem is the government’s problem — not that it would not support it, for it probably sees it as not a matter of proportionality, but that it will adjust the fines slightly. That's what's gonna Respected citizens and citizens, so much about how we have a social government and how much we are dealing with citizens when it comes to fines, when it comes to determining different forms, penalties for offences and so on. Although other countries are much more focused on prevention, also with a warning policy and so on, but we have to fill the budget with something else because otherwise, with other measures to improve the economic situation, this government does not know. We have to deal with this, too, but I believe not for long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta has the floor [[…]] Here you go, Mr. Janko Weber has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you. I would only like to draw attention to the fact that colleague Bojana Muršič spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group and it was also pointed out earlier that, in fact, colleague Janja Sluga could not replicate the invitation of others or the mentioning of other Members because she spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group. Therefore, I would like to point out, on a procedural basis, only that it would be right for all those who are trying to draw attention to the content of the views expressed by the groups in question to say that this was the position of the Group of Members and not of the individual Member or Member of Parliament. However, I also tried to give my own reply on behalf of the Group of Members, after which I had my own personal word, so that half of it would be forgiven immediately because the error was acknowledged. So I hope that from now on we can talk more deeply about the content. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to finish what I did earlier with the help of Mrs Slug, but of course a very short response to Mr Vebra. I quite agree that the editorials speak on behalf of the Group of Members, but I do not know if you are still a member of the Group of Members. I'm glad you did. In fact, your position was, look, it was human, it was normal, it was at the level of the gentleman and even correct. But if your representative comes – but really she reminds me of a partisan who comes, shoots down the bullets and leaves; and this on your behalf, it couldn't have been on your behalf. Yes, but I agree with you. Look, you're the principles of the matter in a way that a person can say hello to. It's true, there's a different security situation today. I don't know if I've thought this through. Maybe it really shows something to raise those 2007 prices, maybe 10 times, but I'm sure it doesn't. You know, this is true that the civil service provision for military service is not an obstacle for any person in Slovenia. That's what he's holding. There's nothing to add. But I would like to conclude with Mrs. Servant. Look, the police need data for terrorism. Who set you up? No one – not a tourist, but no terrorist – travels from a Middle East to Ljubljana, to Brussels, to Paris, anywhere, by plane, train, personal car, with his own passport or passport, and then places a bomb there – Fertig! And me, no! First he goes to the hotel and then he logs in with his name and last name and then he goes to the stadium to set up a bomb. That's not terrorism, hey, that's not how it works! It is normal that modern terrorism will take place in a different way, that it will change its name and surname, that it will have some counterfeit passports, that it will have a changed external image, that it will travel like any other businessman and report to the hotel with the wrong name and surname. Logically, with some forged document, committed a terrorist act and disappeared and came on the other side of Paris out, or in London, or anywhere with another passport, it is also clear with another identity. Well, we can't have a terrorist report at the hotels, not one of them, because modern terrorism doesn't run in such a way that you sign up with your ID card at the hotel, which is what we're talking about today. Then you said the police checked 2,000 people; I hope that's not true, it's a million. Why? Because we have about one million tourists, and then one million tourists then hotels and other people who broadcast rooms, this system that we're talking about will sign up and the data will come to the police. I don't know who gave you $2,000 -- no. The correct information is probably a million or more than the tourists, as far as the night is concerned, according to home. That's what I had to tell you, and now I hope you'll be in your turn soon and that you can answer me, given that you've consulted with the expert and Mr Ferlugo and I'll be really happy with your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u27	Here you go, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u28	Mr Vice-President, this is where my colleague from the coalition just pointed to one procedural issue, so I don't have a chance of replicating yet. You did not point out this to your colleague Gorenak and, of course, colleague Gorenak is now continuing his practice. That's one procedural thing. The second is to warn him that there is no way that fellow Members of Parliament can compare with partisans or anyone else, that we will not then begin to speak, Mr Gorenak, to whom you remind me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u29	So, the procedural part, the first part, I have to say, I didn't understand. This around the partisan, of course, was very distasteful, because sometimes the symbol was beautiful because they were fighting for freedom, Mr Gorenak, and it was very inappropriate. That's what we once said. We won't be in the National Assembly. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to answer, but there's a few words to say. It surprises me that colleague Gorenak is surprised at the support of the United Left for this bill, because in the United Left we have always supported all the constructive proposals everywhere. I must also say that we are also from you, the SDS, and that we have ever received support from any of our proposals. Here, of course, my criticism went primarily to the coalition, which has always rejected all the good proposals by the opposition and prepared its so-called better proposals, which unfortunately we have not seen. Always, then, colleague Gorenak, when you make constructive suggestions without an ideological cover, without fear of people, manipulation and hate speech, you can count on a sober judgment — at least if not a support — of the United Left. We're always so honest. But unfortunately it was back in your debate, of course, over, because otherwise it's not going to work. In fact, you said you couldn't solve this problem because you were solving the problem of demonstrations in front of parliament, where there were supposed to be a hundred injured police officers and you were fighting for their lives. Look, I have to admit, I've attended these demonstrations, and I never, I emphasize, by the groups I've met, have not been attacked by a single police officer. However, they were attacked by right-wing extremist provokers who wore Nazi — of course, colleague Gorenak — Nazi symbols. This was also found by police experts. We've always warned the police on the microphone that they're getting closer and that we won't continue until these provocations are removed. These are the ones you like to talk about throwing granite cubes and the like. What did we do? We shared carnations with the cops! There are also documents on this, and you can ask them. I believe you and some of them are still in very close contact. In short, I would like to say that the law seems suitable for further consideration. The position of Desus, who was in the coalition at the time when this law was passed, is interesting; now he is in the second coalition when he does not support the law. And if we're honest, we can say the goods that we find this strange and partially schizophrenic position. You know, we have to say that sometimes when a man is in power, you meet him. Give the man strength, and you will see how generous and capable he is. Right now we're hearing the story of the Alpina, which you're very committed to. Your Member Jean Mahnic promises that a new Kidrič will happen, but the main directors of the Taiwanese story takeover of the Alps were, however, the late Finance Minister Bajuk, fellow Member Pogačnik and Milan Podpečan. Now you're saving these workers under the flag of her gravediggers. Let's be honest, let's leave it ideologically and make good laws, and here we will always support you, and you can expect all our support, regardless of what you call us with very unpleasant names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tomic, I didn't say you did this. No way! But I did give official information on how many police officers were injured in Slovenia. Of course, I only have to respond to one part of your debate that those right-wing provokers did. Do right - handers now drop out of power? It's not working! Left, you've been throwing your rights out of power. Yeah, that's what it was, anyway. One in a cultural way, just like you did, and one in a rough way, just like the ones that hurt the cops did. We need to know that. That's a de facto fact. Besides, thank you for your support. I don't have anything to say here. Really, Mrs. Slug, say something meaningful. Mrs. Muršičev doesn't need a lawyer. I think Mr. Weber is quite solid, he can defend her or whatever, so he doesn't need lawyers – in my opinion. Look, Vice President, you reacted to that look on my face. I believe that Mrs Muršičeva can be pleased with this expression. If I said it looked like a domed arrow, I'd think it would be angry. I didn't mean anything by it. I didn't mean anything by it. But it's only disturbing, you know, that someone passes the content, passes the agenda of the opposition and then disappears. Be here and face it, as Mrs Tomic is now, and defend your arguments, that's all a man would expect. Not the attack on the opposition and the disappearance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go, Mr. Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting! In fact, nothing new in the 2016 National Assembly: the opposition is proposing a law and the coalition rejects it by explaining how they already think, think, think and seek systemic solutions. I am sure that if any opposition party, but not at all, God forbid, the SDS proposed some kind of law where a branch would be wrong, it would be a coalition against because it is the wrong proposalr. I have already said this before that I miss that mandate 2004-2008, when we also went over these coalition, opposition issues and sometimes we supported not only the amendments by the then opposition, but also the laws. But this is not a story in this term. The party that came into power with this paradigm of transparency, cooperation, listening, does not listen to anyone. That's why sometimes a coalition happens to them because they don't listen to Desus or the SD. In short, once again the same opinion of the Government, which is still different from others – I do not know how they prepare systemic solutions – is still wrong. My colleague, Dr. Gorenak, said that the Secretary of State had slightly missed the point of our law, and the coalition parties, according to a typical practice, did a little copy-paste, and here is our opinion, which is 98% the same as the government's. In addition, changes are being made to the law, which is also supposed to solve fines in this area. I have a feeling, given how this mandate is going on and how the individual ministers are excited about disciplining people, that the fines will not go in the direction we propose in the SDS Group, that is to say a reduction, but that the fines will go in the direction we receive from the individual laws proposed by this coalition in the National Assembly, which is a rapid increase in fines. So I am even more afraid that we have opened some Pandora's box; because the SDS wants to lower the fines, the government will show its power and raise the fines, and the citizens will still pay in terms of how they have paid and will continue to pay. I am interested, Mr Secretary of State, in looking at what we have drawn up on Articles 23, 24 and 25, and I wonder if there are any data, how much of this money or for legal persons, independent entrepreneurs, natural persons who have filled the budget according to the current situation. There is no need to dwell on the idea or thinking of how much this amount would have been if our bill had been adopted. But I really want to know how much is that? Why did I open this subject? Because we are not just talking in this law about what otherwise coalition Members have been talking about in the debate about how many people are registered under one roof. I'll go on another subject. This, for example, is either a legal person, an independent entrepreneur, or a natural person who does not register or log out an individual who resides or temporarily resides in a tourist inn. I must say that in this mandate I have received one very, not only a nice initiative, but a very lifelike one when they wanted to change this very topic of registration or accommodation and rent and wanted not to influence, but to make the real situation much better. It was a debate, whether to change the law that is before us today, or to change the housing law, or the guise law, in order to facilitate the resolution of this application for hotelists and tourist workers. And according to my data, there were some meetings on this subject, but what I got was information, when two representatives of the two ministries came in, first they said how something could not be done, and then when someone gave in, they said, but maybe something could be done, someone from another ministry said, look, look, we already told you, there's really nothing to be done. And then we have such stupid punishments as in this case, as colleague Gorenak once said, claims or soft No, and according to which article 24, a fine is written both for the hotel owner and for the receptor itself. I am so interested in how much of this money has really been raised according to the existing or existing law. Much has been said about how we made a mistake and only after nine years to correct Kolje Gorenak’s mistake has already been said, why we are not three years ago, because some other things have been more priority, but I think it is the duty of all of us in the National Assembly to find that something non-life, contrary to the CAP – a healthy farmer’s cleverness – is to arrange this, so that people will be more normal, more accessible; or even if it is only one article or six articles of the amendment of the law. [[…]] And yes, the SDS is always in the National Assembly, as my colleague Jean once said, we will for a while, and we admit the mistake and we want to fix it. However, I am more afraid that in this mandate, the loudest ones who I am sure will have no chance of correcting the mistakes in the next term and someone else will have to correct for their far greater mistakes than the mistakes in the amount of fines, where we are talking about 400 or 1,000 euros. In this National Assembly, you make mistakes, which are millions of dollars, and I wonder who will be the next term when the revision of all these marriages and other proposals, which are being adopted here in the National Assembly, is followed by who will send the brains to. Those who are most powerful today in the National Assembly will not. Probably a lot of people who used to be a member of Positive Slovenia can confirm what they did and maybe want to fix it today, but they don't have a chance because they're gone. In short, the Secretary of State, I really hoped that someday you would say, but let us give in pure peace, give support to a single law that does not bring any ideological charge, no revolutionary change, but it is a purely technical solution to support it. But you obviously have some kind of befel, either from the top of the government or from where you don't correct opposition proposals. As former colleague Jan Mahnic said, in this mandate, I think this is a repeated attempt at a law where we are always terminated with the same sentence: we do not support because we are preparing our systemic solutions. And the minister says, in six months, you'll have a systemic solution. There is no systemic solution, we propose a new law similar to that, and yet another change is the same answer – we are preparing, we are still thinking, we are considering and there will be a solution. Before early elections, before any law will be written, we will then wonder who is to blame, and after the manner will probably be again blamed by the SDS, because things in Slovenia have not been resolved because some rulings prefer to put their heads in the sand rather than correct mistakes. Here, as I have already said, it is a mistake made by Janša's government and SDS, part of that government, and we are now correcting a mistake, but we cannot do so, because, above all, Mira Cerar's party has a policy that must be excluded from the decision-making of SDS and New Slovenia very often also the United Left. Regrettably, sometimes ask those Members who are inside from 2004 to 2008, what has done nicely, that sometimes it is wise to listen, and you will do something good for Slovenia. We'd do a lot of good this time, too, if the fines were reduced. I believe that many tourists or guest workers would be grateful for your support, which you deny only because they are the SDS's proponent. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u36	Good evening to all those who insist on this continuation of the night sessions. I admit that the very gentlemanlike gesture made by Mr Gorenak is about providing for the correction of mistakes. I have to admit, it's a very nice gesture. We can debate the timing, whether it's real now or not, whether it could be sooner or later, but let it go. How do I see this issue with this proposal for a new Law on Registration of Residence by colleagues from the SDS? We'll see her next time. You have focused on this very important part, which the Government has also told you in its opinion, as regards the fines, as regards these hotel applications and other private accommodations, and it is necessary to say that the Government has somehow set itself a possible wider view of this matter, and I will immediately explain what this is about. For the first time in the normative part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016, it included a new Act on the Registration of the Population and also included here these lowering fines, which we all found to be too large. But it's the other one. The government has another concept, and now I'm going to explain why. In point 1, I will focus on one important segment, which is not well regulated in this proposal. Here, I hope that you will agree with me, Mr Gorenak, this is a registration of a residence that is not only of a recorded nature. We probably agree here. This affects, as we all know, property-legal relations and, of course, other civil-legal relations. Here there is also a prerequisite for the application of individual civil or other rights, in particular social rights. I think you agree here, too. It is said that the permanent residence is also subject to both active and passive electoral rights, social protection rights – children's allowances, protective allowances, including family rights such as fostering – the right to religious freedom, the establishment and representation of religious communities and so on. It is said that registration, the address of residence, which is limited to the mentioned number of these rights, is often misused in practice as an institution of residence registration – we all know that – because the addresses do not actually contain a natural person and the landlords leave the guest application. Therefore, it is necessary to prevent fictitious applications, to focus and increase the effort that this government is working on, and also this new law on residence registration will certainly have a very strong focus – that it is necessary. The next point, why the government proposal is slightly different from yours, is that the legal basis for simplifying reporting in relation to the accommodation activity, this is so-called e-mail, is precisely the basic legal basis of the Law on Registration of Residence, which is supposed to be a new one. Thank you for listening to me. To finish, I will quote my friend Jana Mahnič, who said on the phone that it takes about two mandates to change – if I understand correctly, if I don't, he will fix me. And it is also true what Mr Lisec said that voters will decide. So here we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings to all, colleagues and others present! Well, if we wanted to fix the mistake that was made years ago. This error was mainly due to the fact that it was a simple currency repair and that this huge or too high fine continued as it had been before. This is not about permanent residences, it is about registering guests in hotels and these fines are disproportionate to the offence and it is mainly about the intimidation of those who are practically engaged in activities. On the other hand, they have a huge anomaly, both in certain communities, such as Roma communities, in the application of permanent residences, in the use of these non-resident permanent dwellings for the calculation of travel costs, for the transport to work and the like, which no one checks. We have residents or permanent residents in one facility that is not even suitable for one family, even 200 people, and no one checks it, no one sanctions it. We also do not specify in the law what are the minimum conditions for staying in a permanent facility. We have a bunch of buildings that have house numbers, and on each such facility you can either register a permanent residence. Nothing! Nobody checks, nobody punishes. There are also 20 people reported in certain dwellings, and no one checks out where these people are, what they are doing, or have minimum living conditions. Nothing! However, it is important that someone be punished if he forgot to make a roof over the letter c: with 25,000 euros a legal person and that poor person employed with 600, 700 euros a month with 4,000 euros. Where's the proportionality here? Where's the order? I myself had a case when the chief of management called on us, the mayors, and ordered us to count the Roma in our congregations. I started laughing. How? I asked. But should we line them up in the morning like in the military and everyone tells us how it's written, when it was born, because it doesn't have paper, and then bring it to the administrative unit? Is that our jurisdiction? Is that the order in our country? On the other hand, we are punishing one minor mistake for such minorities. What if a bunch of guests, say, come from the bus to the hotel, when you have to quickly place them, pick up documents, write them, edit them? And someone's wrong about one letter. Or does he send them out in a row, one by one, and one by one for 15 minutes, and then you get your turn? And if you come in at ten, you'll be up at midnight so you can go to bed. Yeah, otherwise, I don't understand how one person there right before retirement can — I need good glasses so I can see the exact letters on my ID card. It's in practice. Who's making a fool out of someone? At the time, we just inherited that, and we were not careful to change that, because after that this appeared and the whole of Slovenia laughed — to whom? They're laughing at us anyway, and if we're not able to fix at least one piece here today, it's no wonder they'll laugh at us even more. Otherwise, two, three inspectors get paid, and our slapping here in Parliament will be paid because the fines are so high. Is that right? I would ask someone who is involved in this legislation to go with me to Dolenjska, there near my municipality, and it will be easier to write a law to see what order we have in this Slovenia. No wonder migrants go wherever you want! And there'll be more. How will we deal with them, or at least to this day, what order is there when a thousand are waiting for them at the door to collect everything? What if someone's wrong there? Will that policeman also be punished with 4,000 euros when he didn't make a roof on c? But I don’t know what their surnames are, they can be confused by three letters — what a Syrian last name. Let's be a little human if we want to fix something that's gone, which is the beginning of it all. Here I read the things we have problems with people with these tax receipts on farms, and we're going to be looking at this another week. I mean, it's for crying out loud, really! We in the opposition must now check a little; we are giving research tasks to the professionals working for Parliament to explore how they have this resolved in the neighbouring countries. But not now! How they had them 50 years ago because we're so far behind them. Because we don't understand the simplest things. Sometimes I've told some board I've had enough of going home with smart people. No wonder you're laughing. I don't understand simple things. Maybe I didn't go to school enough, but for the things we're dealing with today, it's probably too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get Mrs. Janja Slug ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I would expect that, given that the Government has, I think 45 minutes of the time announced at this point in the agenda, at least for a few minutes, it would raise itself up and say something else. She also commented on a matter, not only did she read the position that had been said. This is what I expect from those who have been authorized by the Government to represent its position and policy professionally in the debate in the National Assembly. It's not like that again. Not for the first time! We have warned many times, and in this way it is almost entirely unnecessary for the Government to announce time and send its people to the National Assembly. If a minister who is a political official cannot come, then he will send those who are professional in the rules of procedure, and someone will answer and say whether these discussions, which my colleagues have, are standing or not. None of this has happened, Mr President. Same as before with the Minister. The second thing, because I am somehow stabbed in these debates, is the views expressed by some Members of the coalition groups. Here I am one of the senior members after the internship, by routine, by knowledge of matters, and that someone who is a member of Parliament teaches me that our proposal is not systematic, is not comprehensive, does not stand, does not drink water, is a bit severe. It's a little rough. Because that's how cheap that story can't be sold. We are talking about the amendment of the law, the novel has some envisaged solution, which is intended to remedy some shortcomings, mistakes in the previous or the development of the system. Even the government admitted with the first sentence that these things were perceived and that they would have to be corrected in any way. Now the only question is whether we're going to fix them now that we have them on the table, whether it's going to come in X months, when the government comes in with some systemic, comprehensive, rounded-up law, and in the middle of, say, 30, 50 more hotel people, say, the receptors and hotel owners are going to pay these penalties. That's the question. We know it's a mistake. We all reacted late, that's true. We, the coalition isn't even here yet. I don't know if they're coming to the National Assembly for sunbathing or anything. The only thing you do systematically is our proposal isn't comprehensive. That's systemic. The only thing that's systemic. I propose that we proceed with this consideration of the draft laws coming into the National Assembly with due thought. So if a mistake is, if the problem has arisen, then this problem needs to be addressed. If our proposal is too fast for half a year, you could do something similar on the subject that is open with your law by emergency procedure. No problem! Or on a regular basis, it unites the proceedings. However, in this way it is inconceivable to postpone the matter to the future, as you are able to afford it and allow the entire mandate already. Just add up your debates on our proposals, which start so that you can't support the proposal because it's not comprehensive because it's not balanced because it's not systemic, because I don't know what. Whatever we suggest gets this declaration in the National Assembly. And whenever we propose, it's never the right time; once we're too fast, once we're too late, and things are running their way forward. I think that if you want to be right to the citizens if you are not already up to us, you will have to react sooner and then the things on the table will have to be decided for the benefit of the citizens not in good prestige, because someone has come up with some proposal that is premature, but is substantively good enough. I'm sorry. I think what's going on at the National Assembly in this call is very scary. The question is how inspections work. Whether they walk through these smaller private accommodation units and are extremely consistent there and you are punished if you write the whole roof because you should only have half the life sentence. This is also a big question if it is rational, meaningful, if it is in terms of what the inspector can do. This is said to be the first warning he may give. But look, there is no such big difference between the polyxial č and the statement č, between Tomić and Tomič; or between any other last name – I gave an example because we know these things. But look, the difference in this pronunciation or in such a record is €4,000 for the one who made this mistake. The colleague correctly warned that in such cases, when this is found, these things should be corrected if we find out. And stubborn insistence is not a step towards such correction of the things that are going on. We also have an example of some things that are happening at this point. We have an example, for example, when someone acted or who acted unconstitutionally and illegally, for example, you have even a minister who did so – this is the last case of illegal views of transaction accounts, but the view was systemic and comprehensive because it covered all citizens. But punishment, I think, is 800 euros. Can you imagine? An unconstitutional intervention into human rights was not a legal basis, that is to say, it was not legal, but it received comprehensive and systematic data on the traffic of all citizens by transaction accounts, those who were involved in any financial traffic with the public sector in any way. No! No! Penalty, if I read it correctly, information agents, 800 euros. In this case, when it comes only to having someone write the whole roof instead of half the roof, the penalty is EUR 4,000. And tell me, if this case is proportionate, is it comparable? In any case, it is not comparable in terms of the gravity of the offence and the interference with human rights. We probably agree with that. I would like to know how the inspection works when Slovenia carries out the transport service and when, with the declaration, when it orders the accompanying documents, I do not know 50 migrants to the bus or dispatch a thousand tens of persons from the migrant centres to another centre, to another collection site. Who checks whether these records are correct, complete, authentic, and so on? Do you remember that in these 400,000 or half a million cases, there was any printing error, a editorial error, to say simply that someone was typing or writing when they wrote on their hands? It's not! No inspection, no control on this segment has done absolutely nothing, no one has been punished. Even more, they were transporting people who weren't listed, so I guess we all know that now. Some 70, 80% of those who were transported through the conduct of state authorities were not properly listed, registered, no one checked their real data, and no one was punished. But here one hotel staff member is going to make one little mistake, instead of x he's going to write a ps, or another roof, or instead of one double w, let's say in the case of Weber, he's going to pay 4 grand if he's caught accidentally by an inspection. Is that a proportion? Probably not. If they found out and if we can fix it and if we can fix it now, I guess if we're rational, we should do it. I'll give you other cases so you won't think these are the only cases where things like this happen. We have, for example, the Tax Procedure Act, there is a 398, which relates to particularly serious tax offences. I ask you, what is the penalty for particularly serious tax offences, that is to say, if someone makes a mistake for one zero, instead of 20 million euros, he will write 2 million euros? Can you tell me? The penalty is not less than EUR 1000 200 but not more than EUR 50,000. It is said that a hotel employee, a receptor for one mistake, where it is half a roof, is punished three times more than someone who did it. You can imagine the worst tax offence in this country has a maximum penalty of 50,000 euros! If you don't believe it, print the Tax Procedure Act. Now, I'm asking you, is this taping or is this a wrong handwriting record a particularly serious offense if it's only half or even a roof? Is this a particularly serious offense? Does he deserve a higher sentence than a particularly serious tax offence? Can the government answer that? However, these are not the only offences in the tax procedure, or in the Law on tax clearance of accounts, or in any other law, I will tell you. So when we deal with small people, with small economies, small things are extremely large penalties. Those of you who had individual views of your parliamentary groups had this opportunity before you did it and here you have said what you think, an opportunity to check. All right. All right. All right. You didn't do it, but you took a simple opinion of the government, which is always a priori against our proposals, and you took something out there and here those five minutes, you took 7 minutes and you said it. That's how it works in this coalition. Not read, not studied, not compared, and then talk about systemic integrity and integrity and balance or proportionality. You have no basis for such a statement and such a statement. To give you a case, continue – work in black. Someone hires, I don't know who the official is, or the director of the power plant, or, say, the company, and for that, it's a penalty of between 2,000 and 26 thousand euros. They can only get this once. And you have values, and this is the problem of working in black, and you have carriers for transporting forestry products and so on – penalties are enormously high. You have parking meters outside the marked area in the protected area, is the penalty – how much? Ten thousand euros and the impound of a vehicle! Now I ask, compared to particularly serious tax offences, particularly serious, the right provision is where the penalty is only 50,000 euros. The question is whether he will be punished because those who commit particularly serious tax offences or particularly serious other offences are referred to as the head of the most important state institutions. What's a particularly serious offense? Like creating a bank hole. Were those the ones who were being punished? None of these persons have been punished, even if they are in criminal proceedings, the question is whether they will be punished. Perhaps he too will be commended by that prosecutor, Kozin, for doing good because he cooperated and will be punished so much less. So it was in one of the cases and so on. Only in these minor matters concerning the citizens have you — and perhaps we have made a mistake here — have we been too poor, too hard. I think it's time we slowly approach these things and resolve these matters. Look, we've been a big client for a long time. If such a party finds that something can be improved than those who once did, it is only to be commended. We have not put ourselves on the trench in this case and defend ourselves at all costs for a solution that is not good. Now I ask you, if we tell you that this solution is not good, we accept it, you put yourself on the other side, on the trench, and you won't change it., not because it's not good, but because it's yours because you suggested it. From this opinion made by the Government, many things can be read and understood. There was someone here who was talking about this government having in its normative programme this year, this draft of this law. Have you looked at the 2015 regulatory programme and the implementation? Was the implementation of 50% of the laws proposed by the Government? You can check it out right away. How many of those laws from 2015 have been transposed into 2016? And how many of these from 2016 will be transferred somewhere, forward, far forward? The Minister of Justice has promised a judicial reform. Where did she come from? Last January, February, we considered a mini judicial reform by entering GRECO into judicial legislation as some important thing, I don't know what kind of thing, those rules and so on, which no one is sticking to anyway. And none of them have been sanctioned because they do not take that into account. But nothing happened in the courtroom from there. And it was five laws, if I'm not mistaken. Who's covering justice for you? How many of you are on the board? And I'm asking you, have you ever asked as the minister's question, when is this going to be? Have you asked the committee to address the delay in the preparation of tax, judicial reform? Are you waiting for us to do this again, and then the beach of sulphur will come after us because we were hoping to do it? We can go on with other cases. Recently, several meetings were held by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, which dealt exclusively with delays in government reporting to the National Assembly in important projects, I do not know, property transformation, property sales, recapitalisation, UKC operations and so on. And what happened there? The main problem with coalition parties was – what? How were the discussions? One of you must have been involved, but one of you was watching. Answer for yourself what the discussions were like. There is no need for any consideration in this National Assembly, not in committee meetings, not in meetings of the National Assembly, under urgent or extraordinary forms, if the Government were to work, as it was written in what decision to commit itself to reporting after three months or six months, as the Government had suggested it would do. It's not like that. You probably have so many self-criticisms to look at, find out and admit that this is happening, and also admit that you have done nothing, at least that anyone outside the coalition would be known to do it. And then you refer to the normative programme, to the government's legislative programme. Nothing will happen or very little will happen because it is a protocol document because they accept something, do something, send those spies to the National Assembly in two performances — that is, those marriages and those accompanying parts that are only for the Government — and here the story ends. Who locks this in coalition, or dynamics works, are the timely issues published on the web portal presented to the National Assembly and so on? Nobody. You are satisfied by criticising Members who submit anything to the National Assembly in the form of any act, law, I do not know, an investigative committee meeting or anything. This is your primary task, the rumbling and bombing of those who suggest anything. If the government isn't active enough, the coalition can make a law like this. The MPs. It wouldn't be the first time we've done this, but mistakes that are recorded, that are visible, that we're warned to do nothing, then something is wrong with us. We've reacted late, too, and we admit it, but the worst part is that the government with 40,000 officials is gone at all, and now that it's on the table, it says it's not systemic, it's not completely unknowable. And that's the problem, and you're just gonna have to slow down in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs Janja Slug [[…]] Replica, Mrs Violeta Tomić, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. My friend Tanko mentioned my last name with a whole or a half roof, and let me explain to you what it's like with these things. As someone who is born to a Slovenian mother and spends his whole life in Slovenia, where there is no soft number in the alphabet, I learned to write my last name, as everyone writes it down. In 1992, after more than ten years of work in one theater, I was called into the office and asked to find out what my birth certificate said. This surprised me very much, for it was a sign that in the new Slovenia we will be separating people from today into multiples and lessers based on a whole roof or a half roof. And look, if we lived in Germany, America, anywhere in the world where they had no fear of the Southerns, we'd all sign with ch, and there wouldn't be a difference. I am not so surprised, in fact, that this law was passed in the government of John Janša and that such a great fine fell on a man who had only written the roof wrongly, because you could not tell who was ours, who was theirs. And I'm going to say one more thing: even rare individuals who have soft, believe me, we've all been made hard! That's why I don't see any reason to discriminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Today, I have not said in a word that we reject this proposal because it is not systematic. I don't know where you guys got this. I said that because it's an unprofessional approach again, at home we'd say, over the thumb. You used to hang that fine over your thumb, and you missed a zero, and now you're cutting that fine back over your thumb. But our view is that there is a need to be very careful here and that there is no need for any red to follow. A colleague who came to give me professional help said, "With a pharmacy scale!" So you'll know what we were talking about. Here, in your proposal, you refer to the fact that in 2007, the applicant's arguments do not clearly indicate the reasons that led to the imposition of fines. And no justifications, and so on. This is also not the case today in your new proposal. I haven't seen it, I've looked at it all, but today you're doing it completely, exactly the same as now that you're saying it was wrong. I'm not going to lose words about how you're looking for such and other reasons, why you didn't do it, and why it took so long, your colleague has already told you what's going on with these reasons. But I'll tell you this because you apologized to us for not doing it. Comrade Gorenak, you don't have to apologize to us. You have to apologize to the gentleman you promised him. Him, not us. You said you promised the gentleman you'd take care of it because he came to you. Of course, you're talking about commas here, and you're analyzing the whole thing. At that time, however, in your explanation for 2007 you highlighted that the basic purpose of the law is public interest after an accurate and complete record. You wrote this here yourself because it is not true that you change only those articles that refer to tourists. This, of course, is not true; you also change those articles that change fines, which also refer to the cancellation of a foreigner in an accommodation facility, the registration of a permanent residence by changing the address of the apartment and so on. In this regard, however, I can make other proposals, examples, say, for example, the owner of a single house in Tezne, who was in criminal proceedings for suspicion that by falsely applying for temporary residence, he has helped many foreigners to get to a temporary residence in Slovenia. He temporarily reported as many as a thousand 876 people. These are examples that we can refer to. As I have already said, in the SMC Group, of course, we do not agree that the law is being changed on a case-by-case basis. If you have already requested information on how many of these cases there are, I will not tell you this in euros and how much this was a strengthened state budget, but in cases. In particular, legal persons or independent entrepreneurs who have been punished for entering incorrect data under Article 15, paragraph 3, in 2013 – 3, in 2014 – 6, in 2015 – in 2015 – in seven and in 2016 – for the time being nothing. And if we go to natural persons – after the same third paragraph of Article 15: 2013 – two, 2014 – five, 2015 – nothing and 2016 – nothing. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u46	Good evening. I've noticed you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u47	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u48	Because I didn't notice you before, and now I'm not gonna argue with you. Before I said what I had to say about your performance, I might be able to answer. I hope you weren't offended. If you were, I'm sorry. But, Mrs. Servant, look, not only is the content not only of the deck, I must not speak harshly because you are a woman, I must be very on the level. Look, not only does the content you're saying not work for you, as it's called, but I'm not the doctor who can treat it because I'm the one in science – you know. Look, you said that some gentleman came to me, so I promised him. That's not true. You've made this up or you've misheard it. Lord this one and this one, that we will not be advertising him, which has a hotel in Maribor, I have never seen him before, but I have his information, is last October, November, there, he wrote a letter and sent this letter to the National Assembly, as far as I know. I got it, just like all of you Members got it. This letter exists, find it! So, he also came to your e-mail, but I don't know if you're interested in anything or not. I don't know that. But I basically don't write any letters, if anyone writes it to me, even if it's in prison, I don't throw it in the trash bin, but I try to answer it. I replied to this gentleman that I would ask the Group of Members to amend the law on behalf of the Group of Members, but if I recall correctly, and you answered him from the SMC, and you replied to him, and you said, if I recall correctly, I am not sure about this part, because I should ask him again, because it has only been four months that you will take care of it. Then I said O.K., now if they're going to make a marriage and then – okay, I don't have to work, I can have one coffee in peace and so on. But because there was nothing, because there was nothing, and since there was nothing, we made this marriage. So he didn't come to me, so I promised him something, because I can't promise him because I'm not a legislator, but I'm one of the 90 that I can press for or against. So much for an explanation. By the way, this gentleman told me today that he asked the SMC MPs, because I told him, look, we have 21 votes, 4 from New Slovenia to 25, and now count how much is running out of 46. It is best that you present your problems once again to SMC, because all those there have too few votes, and SMC is the key to yours, so to change this law. He told me he'd try. I asked him again yesterday, and he said he had a deal with SMC members, but he doesn't know how it's gonna go. Well, I said, and then you'll see how it goes. And tomorrow I will call him, and I will tell him, and now look up there, and on that list, who from Maribor you spoke to voted against. So much for knowing you have to be honest with people, that's all. Mrs. Servant, over your thumb. What's over your thumb? Through my thumb, I don't know what to say, it's a lot of things to me. Especially over the thumb is your speech. Tell me the facts and tell me, it's not right, it's not right, it's not right, it's not right over the thumb. That's one thing. First of all, you mention the public interest. Second of all, what else do you have in mind? A thousand 876 people have been temporarily reported. I don't know who shot you with that information. There could be some suggestions, say Mrs Iris, because you were already, if I am not mistaken, in writing that law in 2007. I don't know, I wouldn't be doing you any wrong right now, but these laws were made in a job that you belong to, but I don't know if you were involved. That I won't, because you don't have a chance to answer that I wouldn't do anything to you, but the Secretary of State could say something. You'll probably remember there must have been something wrong. Something must have been wrong because there can't be another such diagnosis. One thousand eighty-six, what's one number again? We have a million tourists. A thousand 876 can be applied temporarily, and this has nothing to do with this law. Just get that hat over there! 3, 6, 7 you say that in these years, sentences have been imposed. See if there are 7 people who have some kind of guest activity – there are many in Slovenia – and if the country is also seven people, there will be no problem with the police now, because the policeman has nothing to do with what the law says. Either the criminal organs or anyone who has nothing to do, he has to do it. But if you gave seven entrepreneurs €25,000 last year, let's say it's people who have 10, 15 rooms – calculate a little! I think he could've done "chiuso" means closed. When he paid for it, he could've shut it down, because then he could just buy that baby stick and go to the social work center. No 7, Mrs. Servant, one is too much to suffer because of some mistake made by our side! And our side wants to fix it, and you don't let it get fixed. This is the same as before in the morning when there was a talk on corruption in health; we propose to investigate a period in which we were, and when Mrs Bratusek was and so on, you were against it. We'd like to investigate ourselves, but you're against it. So we'd like to investigate for a while while we were in power, so I'm gonna say, we'd investigate one way or another, and you don't want to. But it is the same thing: they wish to correct us, and ye shall not allow it. Isn't this a funny thing? And let me tell you something else: look, in the 2004-2008 term, I did some of the duties of Secretary of State in President Janš's office, which was in charge of communication between the National Assembly and the Government. Few people, at least on the left political spectrum, are from that period, very few people, but experts are, here, and they know things. On one of the questions raised here by President Janša at the time was a statement from SD, at the time; if, whatever we suggest, you will deny or deny most of it, you will write that you will save your own lives. I recall a serious debate in the then government, a serious debate, a very serious debate and a very serious call by then Prime Minister Janša to all the then ministers. He said, "Don't fuck around if a good proposal comes to the table, which is normal, which I don't know what kind of law, it has to be supported, and it's written by the Pahors or whoever wrote it!" Then what else? What are you doing? Did you see that? It's different. Then another matter, I don't remember after 2000, but no government adopting the budget in that country, probably not, and I don't see any member of Parliament from the time that the coalition would not support two, three amendments of the opposition. I don't remember this case. And then there was some kind of kindergarten, and then there was some kind of retirement home, and something came up. I know that the coalition can't accept everything the opposition proposes, especially with the budget, because clearly, then you get into a situation where the Defence Minister can pay there, not get out. That's all true, but look, normal coalitions or, now I'm going to say, smart coalitions, but they were all colors: Rob led the government, Janša led the government, and Pahor led the government, Bratuškova led it – everything is different. There's always something: two, three amendments. Yes! Look what you're doing. Look what you're doing! Catastrophe, what are you doing! You'll get your revenge! It's like we're not able to write one article in the opposition. But admit that the article is fine, you say; no, but we will write against it, only that it will not be you. That's not how politics works! In politics it is also necessary to be pragmatic sometimes, sometimes more grave, sometimes a little less, but what is too much is too much. What you are doing today has not been done and Positive Slovenia has not done, nor Jankovic has done with his client, whatever it was called, has not done, nor has really done, nor has LDS, small, great. No one's ever done that. But you don't! If it isn't yours, it is – no. And tomorrow, when this law is passed, the law will obviously fall, so that those who are hurt know it. But not thanks to us, we wanted to correct our mistake. And you guys, the mistakes we're trying to make after ourselves, don't let us fix it. I'd say something ugly, but I won't. I'll stop at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the replica, but I don't know if we still have time. It's not yet, it's not the final phase, Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u50	Mr. Gorenak, you didn't listen to me very carefully. You didn't listen to me very carefully; when I was talking about a thousand 876 people, I was talking about those who the owner of the single house at Tezn reported to this single house. That's one thing. But I was talking about these seven people because you were talking about filling the budget. Of course, the figures show that this is not a matter of not filling the budget with these fines. And you said you were. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u51	Your time is up, thank you very much. Yes, the replica is counted in time. We are now going to the conclusion of the general debate. Procedural Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President. Just one notice. Mr. from Maribor visited the SMC Group last May, you were all present, you told him in his eyes, in two months we will change the law. You lied to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u53	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, this was an abuse of procedural motion. I'm not giving you a reminder today. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government who still has time, Mr Andrej Spang, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u54	Vice President, thank you for your word. I'm going to try to answer for a moment. I hope all the questions you've been asked are answered. The Government has drawn up, as you can see, the text of a proposal for a new law on residence registration. However, I must say that the new law has drawn up with comprehensive solutions, which are already inter-sectorally coordinated and in government procedure. This cross-cutting law, which is in government procedure, is also well known by Ambassador Lisec, because he himself mentioned that he had heard that the law was aligned with the Ministry of the Economy. Yes, part of the law also interferes with the Hostages Act, the institution of which is the Ministry of Economy. So the Hostage Act, which you mentioned and is inter-resortically consistent with this law, is going to be dealt with in a package at the National Assembly. So, I stress that the law is intersectorally harmonised and is already in government procedure. It has been mentioned several times today that this case was a mistake, both coalition and opposition Members mentioned the latter. I can tell you, yes, some experts have actually been with us for a long time, and I have also received a reminder of this subject. It was not a mistake; it was indeed a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, which proposed even higher fines in inter-departmental coordination. The 2006-2007 document is: The Ministry of Justice has proposed even higher penalties, which we have not taken into account. And I quote, quote, the answer: "We have taken into account your proposal to increase fines in the penal provisions of the law, because in our view the fine is 400d thousand EUR for an individual – a natural person is significantly too high. The text of the bill therefore provides for a range of between €200 and €800, which is already a significant increase in the fine. Thus, according to the law in force, Article 25 provides for a fine of between 10,000 and 50,000 tolars." This was then coordinated by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice and later by your Secretary of State. That's when he coordinated it. As I have said, the Government has proposed, agrees with this, does not oppose, agree that the fines are significantly too high and that we are going here to the local population, to the paralegals and to the other catering facilities that provide capacity. With the bill, as I say, in the proposal for a law, we deal with this issue in a comprehensive way. The shortcomings of existing legislation are addressed by pursuing the following objectives: the accuracy of the data in the Register of Permanent Populations to reduce the possibility of fictitious applications, the reduction of the number of findings, the elimination of administrative barriers to the work of administrative units and to the reporting obligations in tourism, and the uniform practice of implementing legislation. The basic purpose of the Residence Registration Act is to ensure that the Register of Permanent Populations is consistent with the actual state of residence of individuals. There are a lot of rights attached to the address of residence, as most of you have all identified and mentioned, so in practice it is often the case that individuals abuse the institution of residence registration. As a result, the data of the permanent residence maintained by the administrative units, i.e. in the register of the population, are incorrect, but also annually, I can say, an increase in the number of procedures for determining the actual permanent residence. From 2007 to the previous years, this increased by a factor of about three, four times. In order to ensure an accurate record of the situation, movement and accommodation of individuals, the proposal sets out the obligation for an individual to provide, at the time of his or her residence registration, the actual information on the address of the accommodation and the obligation of the owner, co-owner or landlord to allow the individual to stay at the address so that he or she may not restrict the individual’s registration obligation. One of the objectives of the law is to reduce the number of findings and to reduce them. The draft law thus provides for the possibility of prior informing individuals of the registration obligation before the introduction of the procedure for determining residence. This provides for a reduction in the number of findings resulting from the non-recognition of registration obligations. The proposal also provides for the possibility of establishing temporary residence for nationals of the Republic of Slovenia and not only for foreigners who do not have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, as is the case now, the new proposal will allow temporary residence for two years instead of one. On the one hand, you ask members of the opposition about the large numbers of individuals who are registered at the same address and, on the other hand, they want to significantly reduce their fines. I am of the opinion that this would lead to even more fictitious addresses. This is a specific case, and we will be correct to this particular case, which you have all pointed out here today, that is, as you spoke about the Hotel Vitranc, I can say that in this case, which you are also referring to as the starting point for amending the law, that in order to register a guest with a guest, the programme which the landlord has and uses for the guest's registration must be implemented on the basis of the Rules on the Enforcement of the Law on Registration of the Residence and must comply with Annex 12 with all of the following characteristics of the transfer of information on hotel guests' registrations in electronic form. At the time of the event in 2013, the Regulation was in force, which is recorded in the characteristics to record also noise and other special signs from foreign alphabet. This should also be adapted to the receptor programmes, which was not the case in particular. I can say that all the programmes, i.e. the receptor programmes of the various producers that are installed on the computers of the accommodation capacity, must have previously been sent to the police by the latter, i.e. accommodation capacities. The police shall, if it fulfils all these characteristics in accordance with Annex 12, also give positive consent. There's a fine that's been made. After a quick procedure, you all know, the lowest possible fines are imposed. It was not in any such case a fine of EUR 25 000, as mentioned. There was a fine of 3,000 euros for the legal person, i.e. for the company, and a thousand euros for the responsible person. Because it's a quick procedure, so if it's paid immediately within 8 days, it's half. In the specific case of the Vitranc Hotel, the criminal authority of the Kočev Police Station issued a decision on the offence which was issued 5. 3. 2013 for the offence referred to in Article 15, paragraph 1. So, there's a lack of guest records. In the criminal proceedings, the offender stated that he did not use the noiseers because he also had problems sending the data, but I must say that the latter had also settled and repaired it later. The latter therefore filed a motion for judicial protection, which you did not or did not want to mention in today's debate, and the District Court in Jesenice is 28. Ten. 2014, I repeat 28. Ten. 2014, issued a judgment in which a notice of violation was issued. So, the fine, as I mentioned 3,000 euros, I repeat, because a request for judicial protection has been filed and the District Court has issued a judgment in which it issued a notice of violation. In the midst of that question, already one of the Members – Member Servant, if I am not mistaken, answered some numbers after years. These figures alone, how many applications have been made in the amount, I do not have, but I can say that with regard to the police report, the statistics on infringements under the Act on the registration of residence for 2015 were a thousand 256 of these violations, of which 512 were violations and 741 were warnings. Today, it has been mentioned that in the new law we will also regulate warnings. In accordance with the Law on Offences, warnings have already been given today. And now he's setting it up, and here I don't think it's a dilemma. So I repeat, 741 warnings were issued last year. How much – therefore, a question arose between Austria and others – such guests in the tourist facilities in the private sector, which would have been found to be wrong at all. I would like to point out once again that this application, which we call a police report, is not only intended to seek out violators, but also to find missing persons. I can say that, according to the national record, Schengen records and Interpol records, a total of a thousand 710 people were burned together last year, which I do not think is that little more than a police report. Here again, I stress that this is not only about criminals but also about missing persons. Ambassador Gorenak, you asked how many of these were reported to the police for a police report. Last year, more than 4 million people were admitted. Mrs Ludmila Novak mentioned the fact that there were more people at one address. The Minister of the Interior has already answered the question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Šimenko. Also under the new residence registration law, there will be levers to enable the administrative unit to carry out the relevant procedures. Moreover, the implementation of these procedures will be facilitated for administrative units by a new law. As regards the unilateral cancellation of a permanent residence from the title, i.e. in order for the owner to sign out of his apartment, it must be said that the latter is no longer possible in the law in force. Of course, if the owner of the apartment finds that the tenant is no longer living at his address, the lessee may inform and the administrative unit shall, if it finds out that the lessee has not notified the change of address, introduce the finding procedure and determine the actual state of residence and change the application of the address to the individual under this procedure. Mr Lach says this isn't about applying for residence, it's about registering guests at hotels. I must say that the latter does not, because the applicant also wants to lower the fine to suspend the application of residence. Therefore, as I have already mentioned, the legislation already in force allows for the determination of the procedure through the administrative unit, namely the procedure being checked, i.e. the reality of the application, prior to the receipt of the application of the residence at a particular address and the procedure for determining the actual residence, when it is informed that someone has changed his residence, the place of residence. I can also say, these procedures, the administrative unit introduces approximately 13,000 per year. As I said earlier, 4 000 700 in 2007, in recent years there have been 13 000 of these findings on administrative units. So the new law will facilitate the conduct of these procedures. With regard to the number of sanctions imposed, I replied in most cases. I can also say that the criminal authority, i.e. the Internal Affairs Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, is in accordance with Article 25 – a violation of Article 25 – this is a violation of the application of residence – in 2014 he issued 130 sanctions, of which there were again 65 fines and 65 reminders. In 2015, the Inspectorate issued 140 sanctions, 81 of which were fines and 59 reminders. I think that with this Member of the Union, I have replied to Tank that, instead of initiating the infringement procedure, warnings can also be given, and they are given. So once again, I repeat that the data points are going to be. This amount, mentioned in the report, that a penalty of EUR 25 000 has been imposed under the swift procedure, is not valid. Fast procedures move the amounts for legal persons EUR 3,000, for natural persons thousands of euros. However, the penalty is imposed by the criminal authority, depending on the criminal authority, but from these figures that I have presented to you, you see not only the fines are being imposed today, but also the reminders are being issued, and this is about 50%. So this is the decision of the criminal authority to impose sanctions. I hope that I have answered most of the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u56	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! After this debate, when we have listened to a whole bunch of readings, we can see that there is not really a fundamental one for which the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed this law. The explanation of the law stated that this is a specific case – otherwise I personally do not agree to solve specific cases. In fact, we have just learned that, in this particular case, there were no fines of EUR 3,000 or EUR 25 000, but a reminder. Look, even if it didn't, it was often said, look, 25 thousand euros, because instead of hard writing soft or vice versa. See, the Offences Act determines when sanctions can be mitigated, even under what is prescribed, and I believe that anyone who feels this injustice, that it has occurred to him in this sense, that he would benefit from these remedies and that the court would listen to it if it were justified. It seems that to some extent, if we have information, it was a reminder. In the debate, I found that somehow this law is being banalized, if you, what does it matter, who reports someone, can make a little mistake, these penalties are too high. On the other hand, we have been hearing for six months that foreigners will flood us, that we must be strict, that we must keep an eye on who lives where something is, how it is reported. See, this is not least easy to do with if we have any more foreign revenue, it is right that their names are written down, as they need to be checked, but not to banalize it. I therefore fully agree with these concerns of the Government, and very important information is that the Government has announced the amendment of this law. I hope it doesn't interfere too much with this punishment, because I think this matter is very important. They were eyewitnesses, you're rejecting only because Esdees is the law. See if the government has announced, because this is publicly available on the Internet to change this law, because then you are somehow faced, because you know that we will change this law; but now, whether we change it today or tomorrow, I don't think it makes any sense. That is how I think that in this debate today a few harsh words have been uttered entirely needlessly at the expense of Members. I do not agree with this debate – Comrade Gorenak, you know what the words are. In view of what we have witnessed, this information, which actually detracts from this basic reason for your adoption of the law, I think it was really unnecessary for you to go out here juggling some sort of personal level with the other Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Each debater has 5 minutes to discuss. Now he's got the word "magic." Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry, nice greeting! I also associate myself with the opinion and view that, because of individual cases, although they are often painful, laws should not normally change. It is true, however, that in these cases, when we talk about the mother of the Law on Registration of Residence, we have some duality; one is related to the procedures of the Law on Administrative Procedure and I think that, in principle, there should be no problem, given that this procedural law nevertheless allows for any so-called error, soft, hard or even a replacement of the letter – this is possible by means of a rapid procedure and the Law on Administrative Procedure also makes it possible and, as a rule, in the official proceedings of this matter that are taking place, even relatively quickly. However, it is true that in such a case, some activity is also expected from the party to find that there has been some mistake. It is perfectly understandable and the ZUP also allows such matters to be resolved quickly. But the other thing is that there are cases that are not related to the ZUP, and I agree that there may be a problem in some way. Given that the Secretary of State has now somehow commented on the content of the new Law on Registration of Residence in the final work, I personally would like to make no doubt that in preparing this law you will really take into account all the experience, especially the bad, by all 58 administrative units, because the fact is that this area of force is important, especially because it is truly ascertained – in part also a colleague of Lach pointed out a special group where there are simply no records of residence at all, namely this temporary or permanent residence of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I would also ask from this city that, in preparing and in general, the content of this law, all such concerns should also be taken into account by the applicants and that a relative life law should finally be reached. For nothing helps if this is also comparable to Western European practice, if it is not consistently implemented in the Slovenian space. The practice so far has, as a rule, been used by social work centres and the police in identifying such procedures, such as the finding process, but they end up in administrative units. It must be acknowledged that many matters are still open, and that is why there is great happiness in preparing this law so that these things can really be arranged as they need to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The Vice-President has a new Rules of Procedure since yesterday; it has established a new or at least a new practice; that is, Members can be congratulated on their birthday. Yeah, well, yesterday old mom and mom congratulated Erjavec, and he didn't get any reminders. That's why I'm gonna start like this. Secretary of State, I accept all the information you've given me, including the one with 3,000 euros in Vitranc. If I make a mistake, I have no problem apologizing for being so clear. However, I trust your information at all for the reason that Mrs Iris is sitting with you, whom I also know, and who, in one of the previous mandates, sat with me there by any law, which is also right and I believe that she gave you information that is correct. And I congratulate her, say, her father now, which I haven't seen in 20 years, and I wish him well, say. Isn't that nice after the new one? You introduced anarchy, not me. Let's move on, look, all the numbers you said, I agree with them. But if I was sitting where you were, you'd, you know. Did you? This is a matter of political experience. If I received such a law on the table, I would say to your services, ladies on your left: will we support this law from the opposition – this is a possibility – if you could: hurry up and immediately send this same law to the National Assembly and we would change in coalition and consider the hybrid law so-called. By showing an attitude toward the opposition, you create some allies, even for tomorrow. What if tomorrow, I don't know, Minister, you go to this parliamentary group to make a deal? That's how politics works. It's got SMC. See, that's your problem. Nenet, Russian. There are no allies then. Then how are you going to find your allies? You can't look for them! But the problem is now something. Mr. Zorčič, look, if you're a lawyer after this term, I would never hire you in my life, you'll be out of a job if that's the case. Why? Last May you welcomed this gentleman in the parliamentary group, looked him in the eye – yes, he was in the parliamentary group – you looked him in the eye and said that within two months it would be done. That means May, June, July. On 15 July, we had our last session, and this should be arranged. Now it's March next year. So if I hire you to come to my hearing in a month, you'll be here in a year. I wouldn't think of you as a lawyer! Mr Verbich, I agree with you. In principle, there is no change in legislation due to one case. I don't think it's one case. There's more than one case. Look, your coalition has, with our agreement, changed the law for a Somali girl, one little girl. Yeah, well, it's a good thing you did! I think we were in. But look what we've done with this marriage. That goes with you. With this law, we have allowed every asylum seeker, who will also be granted asylum in the country of Slovenia, to bring half the village up. Why? Because they're no longer dads, moms, aunts, uncles, brothers, sisters, but they're still the ones the kid's attached to. That could be half the village. See, that's what I'm saying to you, I'm using the time I still have, this law needs to be reversed as soon as possible, and we're going to have to change it again, because otherwise we're going to have half of the village as one asylum seeker. [[…]] And it's also right to change it. To conclude, I will say this; 4 million 500 people have been entered into these records, and Mrs Slug speaks a thousand 500 or so. It bothers me, and I'm serious about that. Look, don't look a man in the eye, Members of Parliament – here, look, the boss is here! –, not to look a man in the eye, Mrs. Kustec was with you because you have accepted a man and tell him that in two months it will be arranged and then it is not arranged. That means you're putting on voters. Fuckin' voters ain't gonna vote for you no more. I'm talking a little bit like that. [[…]] That's all to conclude. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition and the representative of the government, up to 1. 4. you will not be here with this law, but also with the Somali girl, I will suggest to the Group that we submit them on 1 April. I'll tell you today. Do it, flatter it, and there won't be a problem. Both marriages need to be rectified both. Well-intentioned! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Technically, it's no longer procedural here. [[…]] Yes, you can make a procedural proposal, Mr Igor Zorčič. Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u62	For the sake of the integrity of this debate, I would like to suggest that you warn your colleague Gorenak that he mentions the true data. Since I've accepted this gentleman from Maribor, that's simply not true. And I didn't promise him anything, and I promised no two-month deadline that I would change. That's your fictional story.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u63	You will also have a procedural proposal, because this has now been an abuse. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, of course I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u64	Well, please, if you'll excuse me for a moment, see if you don't hear everything. [[…]] Mr Zorčič, this gentleman from Maribor said: I was in the SMC Group last May, they accepted me and they promised me. Now, you're a member of the parliamentary group; whether you were on sick leave that day, in the bathroom or anywhere else, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, tomorrow, 4. 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on environmental protection within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u66	Dear President, honourable Members, I wish you a good evening! The proposed law had to be drawn up primarily with a view to the transposition of Directive 2012/18/EU on the management of major accidents involving hazardous substances. This is also referred to as Seveso III of the Directive. The transposition of the requirements of Seveso III of the Directive does not alter in any way the basic concept governing the operation of establishments in the current law, i.e. areas where hazardous substances are present. These substances are set out in the Annex to the Directive. Areas shall be classified as smaller or higher-risk establishments according to the quantity and type of substance and the operator of the plant shall draw up the required documentation and obtain an environmental permit. In particular, the requirements relating to inspection of establishments and public participation in environmental impact assessment procedures are new. The current law also needed to be amended in order to remedy the minor shortcomings identified by the European Commission regarding the consistency of the transposition of certain requirements of Directive 2003/87/EC establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading and Directive 2004/35/EC on environmental liability in relation to the prevention and recovery of environmental damage. However, these changes are so negligible that I will not specifically mention them or expose them. Undoubtedly, however, the greatest response of the public to the proposed changes has led to the elimination of the time limit on the environmental protection permitted so far, until this amendment of 10 years, and the order of administrative procedures necessary for the entry into force of certain installations, installations and activities for which an environmental permit is required. If I concentrate now on removing the time limit for the environmental protection authorisation, I would like to say with regard to the elimination of the time limit for the validity of the environmental protection authorisation that Directive 2010/75/EU does not contain a requirement that Member States should limit the time limit on the validity of authorisations. The Republic of Slovenia has also been established among the rare Member States, if not the only one where such a time limit has been imposed. The Directive only requires the competent authority to verify at regular intervals and, if necessary, update the conditions in the authorisation. Where the applicable law in Article 77 provides for the obligation of the competent authority to review and amend the applicable licence for a particular device whenever its operator intends to make an amendment in the device, the applicable law, together with the proposed amendments and additions to Article 78, shall also provide for the obligation of the competent authority to review and amend the applicable environmental authorisation in certain cases following the official duty. I would also like to point out that the proposed addition to the current regime under which the competent authority is required to review and, if necessary, amend the environmental protection authorisation every 10 years if the environmental protection authorisation has not been amended at that time for any reason. It should also be noted that the operation of all installations and installations under continuous inspection, in particular devices that may lead to pollution of the environment of a larger scale, is under continuous inspection. As a result of this restriction on the validity of the environmental authorisation and the extension procedure, it does not in any way contribute to greater environmental protection, since the provisions of Article 77 and Article 78, supplemented or amended, fully include cases where verification and modification of the operation is necessary, necessary and reasonable. The current regulation concerning the time limit on the validity of authorised rules – the extension procedure is therefore only an administrative burden for the Ministry and an administrative obstacle for the operators of the device. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thanks again for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 17th session, on 10. 2. 2016 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In its supplementary explanation, Mrs Irena Majcen, on behalf of the Minister for Environment and Space, stressed that the main reason for the proposed amendments to the proposal for a European Directive 2012/18EU was the transposition into the Slovenian legal order, with which Slovenia is already somewhat delayed, which is why the European Commission of Slovenia has already imposed an official reminder. In addition, the draft law also removes some of the shortcomings identified by the European Commission in the transposition of the two previous directives into the law in question. Among the other solutions in the proposal, it highlighted and explained the abolition of the current time limit of the environmental protection permit, which has now been in force for 10 years. The law in force also provides that a building permit for an installation, where prescribed for its operation, may be issued only on the basis of a legal environmental permit. In practice, such an arrangement has proved to be less appropriate since an investor at this stage does not normally have all the information necessary for the issue of an environmental permit, and for this reason the proposal for a law in this part has also been amended, so that in such a case a legal environmental permit is a condition for the entry into service of an installation or establishment, not a condition for the acquisition of a building permit. The draft law also introduces other amendments to the chapter governing the operation of the Eco-Fund, nor does the law in force regulate the procedures and reasons for the withdrawal of the funds unduly obtained, meaning that the Eco-Fund, by virtue of the principle of legality in the decisions, except in the case of exceptional means, cannot be cut down by the issuance of another decision or decision, so that the amendment of the law is proposed in this part. With regard to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, their representative stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the proposal of the Law in accordance with its competences, and had made certain comments to individual articles which had been duly taken into account in the proposed amendments of the Coalition Group. However, the opinion was also given by the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which was represented by Mr Jernej Verbič at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, who stressed that the Commission supported the proposal by a close majority, because some members of the Commission expressed concerns about the appropriateness of the proposed lifting of the time limit for the application of the environmental protection authorisation, particularly in their view the main reason for this cannot be a reduction in the administrative burden of the Ministry and economic operators. The main focus of the discussion was, in particular, on the proposed amendments to Article 7 of the draft law, leaving a 10-year time limit on the validity of the environmental permit and setting out the obligation to operate the plant under the environmental permit. These solutions have been strongly opposed by Members or Members of the United Left, as they believe all of the proposals mentioned are going towards lowering environmental standards. With regard to the criticisms put forward at the expense of the resolution in Article 7, it was pointed out by members of the coalition that coalition groups of Members have tabled amendments to this Article, which subsequently stipulate that the construction of the facility can begin only after obtaining a legal environmental permit. This eliminates the concern or danger that the device is already built and then the investor would not be able to obtain an environmental permit. Members of the opposition of the SDS type stressed in the debate that, in terms of investment potential in Slovenia, it is necessary to amend a number of laws on spatial planning and construction in the direction of demobilisation of procedures and to set reasonable deadlines for the adoption of spatial acts and the issuance of building permits. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and did not accept the amendments of the United Left Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I welcome all the few colleagues and colleagues who continue to attend this meeting. I also welcome everyone who sees us on TV screens. The Environmental Protection Act, which we are considering today, could also be said to be the law on environmental degradation. Under the cover of the transposition of European directives, which are not disputed in themselves, the law also abolishes the time limit on the duration of the environmental permit and lower environmental standards, which is unacceptable. The latter law introduces, in particular, provisions whereby the Ministry will, only from the assessment of the operator of the facility or the pollution plant, determine higher levels of emissions of environmentally harmful emissions than those prescribed. This provision lays down the Ministry, as well as this government and the coalition that upholds the law, to profit from the interests of the people. The right to a healthy and clean environment, which is a fundamental human right, is becoming secondary to the right of the dirty industry to make profits at the expense of pollution. It is a matter of expanding the range of possibilities for the dirty industry to externalise the costs of their production. These costs are then borne by all citizens through the high cost of treating pollution-related diseases and through the high cost of environmental rehabilitation. One collects profits; the costs associated with these profits and the dirty industry are borne by all citizens. In other words, it is a matter of introducing additional environmentally harmful subsidies, even though this coalition has been committed to abolishing them in a coalition agreement. However, the most problematic is, of course, the abolition of the environmental permit. This is justified by the Ministry's removal of administrative barriers, which shows a lack of understanding of the fundamental purpose of the time limit of the environmental protection permit and the further subordination of the logic of maximising the profits of the dirty industry. The environmental permit is, in itself, an administrative obstacle put in place to protect the right to a clean and healthy living environment from industrial pollution. Environmental protection licences will be valid for an indefinite period following the adoption of this Act. In this way, the holders of these licences will avoid periodically proving compliance with the requirements for authorisation, and proof of non-compliance will be fully transferred to the shoulders of the State both administratively and financially. The role of the public in the issue of environmental licences remains unchanged, but after the current regime, which limited the duration of these authorisations to 10 years, the public could take part in any renewal of these authorisations. Now the public will have the opportunity to express their concerns only before the first issue of the environmental permit, when the plants and installations are completely new, will not work at all and when the consequences of their operation will not be visible at all. The proposed amendment of the law represents a huge step backwards in the field of environmental protection in Slovenia, so in the United Left we will vote against the adoption of this law. However, we have proposed four amendments, which we will present in the debate below. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! The explanation for the resolution of the bill that we are considering today clearly states that the Directive is being transposed and that some of the inconsistencies that have been made in the past since the transposition of the European directives have been established. This is not the first time that we have missed the transposition of a directive. Unfortunately, it is not the first time that we have received a reminder, nor is it the first time that we have transposed the directives in an inconsistent way, not to say the perfect way. Of course, all of us, or at least some, were surprised that the law, which only transposes European legislation, raises so much dust in various environmental associations, as we received several opinions that opposed the planned reduction of environmental standards and in particular the proposed abolition of the 10-year period of validity of the environmental protection permit. Thus, the Ministry proposes that, due to the removal of administrative obstacles and burdens, we remove the mandatory verification of the conditions laid down for the operation of the plant or establishment every 10 years. The reason, as stated and re-exposed during the hearing on the home working body, is that the removal of administrative obstacles and the burden on us Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members cannot satisfy us. This isn't just some unnecessary procedure. The 10-year period for renewal of the authorisation is a solution that forces both the Ministry and the user to maintain these devices in an appropriate manner and gives civil society and other interested public sufficient space to actively monitor the implementation of the prescribed conditions for the operation of the installation or establishment. Of course, we have pointed out this fact to the competent minister, as I have already mentioned, and this has also been pointed out by various environmental associations, as well as by the competent commission of the Council of State in its opinion. The answers we received to our expressed concerns unfortunately did not satisfy us, in particular it did not explain that we should support the law because much effort has been made. However, in view of all the concerns expressed, it may be further considered that this case involved an effort in the wrong direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! The proposed amendments to the Environmental Protection Act are mainly intended to transpose the Directive on the management of major hazards involving hazardous substances and the Directive on Environmental Liability in relation to the prevention and recovery of environmental damage. In this way, a more detailed inspection regime is laid down for establishments where there is a greater risk of causing environmental pollution to a greater extent and governs the power of the Government to propose to the European Commission the removal of certain hazardous substances from the list serving to classify areas into establishments of greater or lesser risk. A more detailed description of the measures to be taken by its originator in the event of an environmental accident is also an important contribution to reducing the injury factors in the event of accidents. In addition to these harmonisations, the law introduces some other substantive amendments to European law, thus eliminating the time limit of the environmental permit, which is valid for a period of 10 years under current legislation. In doing so, it is important to stress that the proposed regulation is without prejudice to or altering the role and position of the public in decision-making processes. In order to amend the environmental permit, it is also now considered that the operator of the activity must notify the Ministry of any proposed change, on the basis of which the environmental authorisation is also being updated accordingly. The Ministry shall carry out, on an official basis, checks on the appropriateness of environmental permits, while at the same time any installation or establishment under continuous supervision is competent for inspection. The new proposal also introduces a change in the area of obtaining an environmental permit, since it is necessary to obtain it in the current regulation before issuing a building permit. Following the amendment tabled by the coalition parties, a legal environmental permit will have to be obtained before the installation or establishment is started, which will in practice reduce the time taken to obtain a building permit. The Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre understands the concerns and warnings of NGOs, but these amendments do not jeopardise the achievement of the environmental quality standards already laid down by this Act, for example in Article 23, and also in other national legislation. So, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u76	Your Honor! The proposal for a law on environmental protection was basically well prepared, following improvements, as well as the elimination of some unnecessary procedures for a faster further resolution. With amendments and additions to the Home Committee, both the United Left and the Coalition parties, the above draft law loses the improvements, which we do not support in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let me put a few things in order. With regard to the possibility of setting less stringent limits and measures in the environmental authorisation, the proposal has been amended and this has been strengthened by even stricter criteria than the proposal at European level. Because the European Directive provides for the possibility of setting less stringent criteria, and we bring into law that we can decide to set stricter criteria than those laid down in the European Directive. I don't know if we understand this directive, I believe we don't understand it, but we have set ourselves a much stricter limit than the directive itself. That's what we're saying. We're following it in the opposite direction. The basic proposal of the law allowed the construction to start before the environmental permit was obtained. With corrections, this option is conditional, but only for facilities that do not require construction under the building regulations. What I really want to know here is what are those buildings that don't have to be built according to the building regulations. Thus, such constructions are practically not available and environmentalally allowed to be obtained before each construction. With regard to the granting of the status of a party in the process of obtaining an environmental licence on the basis of the designation of an affected area, the following question is raised as to whether the affected area is reasonable to determine on condition that the rights must not be adversely affected by human health or not by the environment. It is said that there is no environmental impact and it must not be at work itself. Many times, however, the problem is that existing legislation in this area is not being implemented. In short, we have a good marriage base, because we always say, "Yeah, bad marriages." It's not true many times. We're just doing no. So it's a bad experience from the past. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are committed to maintaining a green nature in Slovenia, but we must also find a place for an economy with reasonable rules. In Slovenia, too often we set stricter criteria than the European average. This is also the case with this law, which is why we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u78	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Fellow, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! For the fourth time in this mandate, we are amending the Environmental Protection Act, each time for a variety of reasons. This points to the fact that this is a very important law covering a wide range of environmental protection, from chimney services to various concessions for the exploitation of natural resources, environmental permits and so on. At the same time, it is a sign that the ministry will soon have to proceed with the reform of the entire law. This time, the main reason for the proposed amendments is the transposition of the European Union Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, with which we have been late for more than half a year, which is why the European Commission has already addressed to our country an official reminder and demanded the obligations of the Directive. One of the major changes, which at the same time has been the most disturbing for NGOs, is that the current 10-year time limit of the environmental protection permit is being lifted. In the Desus Group, we support this change because the ministry has presented us with reasonable reasons for such a decision. The Arso Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia has already carried out regular annual inspections, at least once a year. In 2015, 263 inspections were carried out where 68 inspectors issued various measures and 9 criminal proceedings were instituted. At the same time, in accordance with the applicable law, the operator of the installation or establishment and the operator of the activity shall notify the Ministry of any proposed change on the basis of which the Ministry may then modify its environmental permit if necessary. A total of 116 such applications were received from Arso last year. At the same time, the Ministry must, on impact duty, amend the environmental permit in certain cases listed in the applicable law. However, another important change, which also triggered a number of public debates, was a change in the time during which the environmental permit was to be obtained. The current law provides that a building permit for an installation, when prescribed for its operation, may only be issued on the basis of a legal environmental permit. In practice, however, such an arrangement has proved less appropriate since the investor at this stage does not normally have all the information necessary to issue such an authorisation. The provisions in the first version of the amendment amended the text of the law, so that in these cases the legal environmental permit is a condition for the entry into service of an installation or establishment, not a condition for obtaining a building permit. During the debate alone, it appeared that the Ministry's good intentions to facilitate the construction of investors and thus enable them to acquire investment funds quickly could be misused. We could be in a situation where an investor builds an environmentally-controversial plant and then blackmails if we have 200 new jobs available and the state does not want to give me an environmental permit. Of course, we know that it would be the country's fault in the eyes of the public to prevent the creation of new jobs at a time of high unemployment, even at the expense of environmental security. Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia are of the opinion that the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Environmental Protection does not reduce environmental standards, so we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left to 7, 15, 18 and 42 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I shall put to the debate paragraphs 7, 15, 18, 42 and 4 of the amendments of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Vesna Vervega has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The amendments of the United Left are mainly tabled or refer to Article 7 of the proposed amendment, which will amend Article 69 of the current law, which defines two important provisions which are also most controversial. First, the period of validity of the environmental protection authorisation. I have already mentioned our client’s position or position in this regard, so this ten-year environmental permit is actually problematic. Otherwise, the Minister has also very well justified what it means in the European scale, what it means, how it is regulated in other countries. Why do we think and believe that this abolition does not, in fact, violate the public interest and, as mentioned, does not change the possibility that the local population and the interested public are actively involved in both the acquisition phase and later? Because Article 13 of the Law does not change, which refers to the principle of the public, because it does not change Article 26, which deals with public participation and not least Article 34, which regulates the procedure for public participation in the adoption of regulations that may have a more detailed impact on the environment than is required by Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention. That's it. The law also does not remove the mandatory verification of the prescribed operating conditions required so far in the re-enlisting phase of the environmental protection authorisation. The fact is that already the contractor, as we have already said before, has to notify the Ministry of any intended change related to the operation of the device or any extension of the device. A legal environmental authorisation must also be amended if any environmental rules are to be amended. And another guardian is, in Article 12, in the first paragraph of Article 70 of the Law, adding a new seventh indent, after which, as we have already said, the Ministry must, under its official duty, check and, if necessary, amend the applicable environmental permit every 10 years, if, of course, it has not been amended at that time. However, the Ministry is responsible for the implementation of this option and I do not imagine that, for example, it would not have done so over a period of ten years. Finally, we have supervisory authorities or inspection services, and I certainly agree with non-governmental organisations and others who claim that supervisory systems need to be strengthened. I'm sure the Ministry will make sure of that, too. Then the second definition of this 69th Article, which has so paralysed, is this stage in which it is necessary to obtain a legal environmental permit for the operation of the device, if, of course, a facility or a device was required to operate. Following the law in force, this was the first phase of a legal environmental permit when a building permit was obtained. Inadequateness of this solution was mainly pointed out by investors. This led to the view that environmental authorisation procedures may also be initiated after the building permit has been obtained. While the Ministry has proposed amendments so that the legal permission can be obtained until the operation of the facility, but this, in the opinion of the majority as well as our parliamentary groups, was too simple to agree because it could lead to some major investment risk or economic damage that the investor would have had, on the other hand, as we have already heard, triggered some pressure on the ministry or the government to issue this environmental permit in spite of all. [[…]] Thus, the amendment proposed or proposed an amendment, which speaks of the need to obtain a legal environmental permit no later than the start of the construction of the facility. With all the changes, we hope that the procedures for obtaining these permits will be optimized, and therefore, we cannot support these all of the above arguments of the amendments or of this one amendment and cannot support it in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President. 7. Article relating to Article 69 on the operation of the device – of course, we do not support the amendment of the United Left because this article is completely deleted. Now, if I go in line. In the first paragraph, I believe that this matter is well settled, as the entry into service is permitted on the basis of a legal environmental permit or a legal order amending it. In short, this thing seems fine to me. The second paragraph, and here, as regards the very time of obtaining an environmental permit — that is to say, before the construction itself begins, is actually going on a probationary basis. This is said to be a requirement for construction to be obtained prior to the start of the construction of those buildings which are constructed by law; in short, by the construction regulations. What are those laws or objects? Because I know that every object is built according to the building regulations. Now I don't know, because I think environmental disputes aren't those objects that don't need to be built under the Construction Act. I don't know any objects like that. What are these objects, and I might ask for that answer. What, though, are those buildings that are not built according to the regulations of the Construction Law? Good, because the very definition of when the beginning of works is counted is very clearly defined also in the Construction Act. So I don't know why these dictions in this law are repeating themselves again, so I don't think it's entirely necessary. In short, I believe that the fact that this is about acquiring environmental permit time does not seem to be quite good for which facilities, not for which, and for which, I do. I can't see the difference here, or this diction is that I actually see that it's practical for all objects. Of course, I don't accept such dictions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the minister and the others! I join the opinion of my colleague from SMC and her explanation. I wouldn't do that again. I, too, was at the beginning when I saw that this limit of 10 years for the renewal of the environmental permit was set aside to remove some administrative obstacles here, some of the works the Ministry would have, and it is something good. However, I cannot agree with that provision when we tighten the limits outside those laid down by the European Directive. The European Directive says that for a certain period of time we can even increase the limits at national level if this is necessary if this is required, I do not know, a device. For a certain time. However, we have now put in place a provision to further sharpen beyond those limits set by the European Directive. This indicates to me that, according to all the regulations that are already very sharp by the European Union, we then add something else so that officials can be smart or that we can limit something. I don't think that's a good thing. We are probably here – whether the government or the ruling coalition has succumbed to our environmentalists, who are so and so often too important and only complicate many lives needlessly. There's one more thing that bothers me. When we weighed on the home work body when a legal environmental permit is issued, before a building permit is issued, or before a user permit is issued, it is a big problem for me if an environmental permit is obtained for two years, before a building permit is issued, after already produced projects. In particular, foreign investors are not accustomed to this. Therefore, I think that the Government should focus more on all operators or co-operators, those involved here, having their own requirements or acts that would be easy to read or that this environmental permit could be determined so precisely or that the investor would already know what it is and what it should not be. He does not end up getting rejected after two years, he does not get an environmental permit when he has already invested so much money and has spent so much time on investment, but he does not know whether he will be able to obtain a building permit. This often happens to us and then lasts for five or six years from the start of some investor’s activities to the issuance of a building permit. That's unacceptable. If we want to, I think we should set ourselves a goal to issue this environmental permit within a maximum of six months. Despite the fact that we have a public decommissioning, public treatment as in spatial acts, because it is imperative that the public be included in this process, I think we should hurry if we have determined that this legal environmental authorisation must be obtained before the building permit is issued. Otherwise, even if we have simplified this, although we have made it easier for state officials, the Ministry has burdened certain administrative procedures, but we have not intervened in the essence of the problem. I know a few of those cases when she pulled herself together. I also know the example now that foreign investors are looking for investment plots in Slovenia, they ask whether a particular industrial or economic zone has an environmental permit. As long as it's not started, they just unlock and move on. Because no investor is gonna wait four, five years until the building permit, which is what's going on with us. If we change this, and to say that a legal building permit has to be obtained up to a useful permit, it would be okay, but the investor has to be convinced that he will really get it, that there is no butterfly later or any amphibian, and that all of this will stop when the project is just done in this case, in another case, if we go to that, and the facility will be built, there will be no use. These are simple things. I don't know if we're aware of them. So we need foreign investment and new jobs, and we have a partial commitment to one such part, such as now an environmental permit, which is just one part of all the problems we have in this area. We also have many large companies that do not have a useful permit not to list them, but no one will close them, they are not possible because the disaster would be economic. And that's allowed. And if we need it now, we need it bloodyly, investment, jobs, development, then we have to do one job, which is what neighbouring countries have also done. For example, in Serbia there is a building permit in one month, in Austria before, and our investors are running away from Slovenia. Therefore, we should have a vision, a strategy and set goals; I don't know, a construction permit within one month, an OPR within six months, not within four and a half years. Or almost half of the congregations do not yet have what should be by 2009, and there is a real anarchy on the ground, as far as this is concerned. That is why, even for other reasons, not only because of this but to a large extent because of this, our entrepreneurs are already running out, let alone coming out. Not to mention, then, co-financing and subsidisation of jobs offered by foreign countries, but by neighbouring countries, not by me. Unfortunately or fortunately, I have gone a little deeper into this, and I find that it will really be necessary to work quickly or cut this Gordy knot. I am pleased that this legislation is now in the process, and it is a matter of course, but I am afraid, because there have been many contradictions, even the public divisiveness has been, public treatment has been extended for one month, that the content is not such as to correct all the irregularities that may have occurred in a short period of time that have accumulated over the decades. It's not the government's fault or the ministry. But once we have to cut people down, we have to give people the opportunity to be as easy as they are in neighbouring countries to legalize, to be able to officially have some things and to obtain, say, usable permits. We have a bunch of economic initiatives in the area of tourism and others that are blocked because of this legislation. I think that we should also make a recording of the legal situation, as was said 15 years ago, which I am following this legislation to see where we are, if we really do, that we have some 10,000 buildings built on black and about 300, not 900 000 buildings built in non-compliance with the regulations; this is said to be not on black, but they are built differently than the project and construction permit. In the municipality of Izola alone, the Fund of Agricultural Lands said that there were 3,000 buildings on the state land in the municipality of Izola. True state land covers more than half of the municipality of Izola, in particular agricultural land. That this has to be solved once, people want to get rid of it. We have the case of Croatia, which had a situation similar to that of us, because we come from the same former country, and they did so by means of a law on legalisation. And they fixed it because it was too strict at first, legalization was too expensive, but as I know, it works there. We too could see this opportunity for those owners who want to legalize – and these are the vast majority – in order to do so, including the municipality, to make a municipal contribution, and the country to make some other contributions to usurpation or anything else, and the municipality then builds the necessary municipal infrastructure with these non-budgetable means are from people. Otherwise, I'm afraid it'll be a few years before we take this seriously. By that time, however, a number of people will have given up any purpose or hope to legalize and engage in some complementary activity — necessary at the farm, for example — and only harm will be done. We don't need much budget here, but we need a lot of will and work to sort this out once. This environmental authorisation is also one of these rules or authorisations that need to be obtained only one part of it. If we arrange the space regulators, that their number may also be reduced, and that each operator of the space regulation should adopt at its own disposal or on some bodies an act which will be readable by, I don't know, a municipal planner, without then any representative of that regulatory body at the design stage being fabricated because it is not specifically specified in their acts what may or may not be. That's what happens on the ground a lot. I think that here is the origin of all the problems, and then, of course, it just keeps getting worse – and I'm a little late, but it's the same subject and it's very hot. The secretary already knows she'll listen to me when this legislation comes to the table, and I'm already getting ready. Basically, the purpose of this marriage is good, and we will not support it because we are more papal than the pope. Always!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to stick to the darkness strictly because we've been through a lot at this late hour. Personally, I regret that such very important topics are so late on the agenda and then it happens to us that only a few Members are here to discuss this, some Members' groups are not even cooperating with their representatives, but it is not such a minor matter. Then here too, I have heard that environmentalists, says colleague Lach of the SDS, are complicating our lives needlessly. Such a claim worries me very much because you know if you have ever seen footage of completely destroyed landscapes that have been destroyed by the desire to profit the planet is being destroyed from day to day, we have heat, greenhouse gases, a whole bunch of degraded environments and what we will leave to the invaders because of our today's greed for capital, by jobs. [[…]] What helps you in your job if employees and all the environmental residents get sick? Where will our grandchildren live? In short, in the United Left, unfortunately, we are the only ones putting the environment ahead of capital. That is why we have proposed amendments to achieve that the repeal of the environmental permit is deleted from the law. All of our amendments are following this same objective, so I agree that we are also discussing all these amendments together and that we are also voting on all four amendments together. Before I touch on the issue of deleting the time limit of the environmental protection permit, let me say that the law is very poorly and imprecisely written and is even a big step back in ensuring environmental standards in Slovenia. Mrs Vervega spoke about environmental damage recovery. This law brings environmental damage! In short, the law, on the one hand, transposes a lot of directives into our legal order, including some, we recognise, good things, and corrects those provisions of the CSR, which have found that some past directives have been poorly transposed. In addition, the law brings some changes to the Eco Fund, which are more than administrative in nature and are perfectly fine. On the other hand, the law also contains a number of provisions which are controversial and have nothing to do with the transposition of European directives. None, I emphasize! These are not some minimum corrections, but at least as regards changes in environmental protection allowed, systemic changes in environmental protection, so this should be two laws and not one. The Ministry seems to have wanted to play by the CSR at the expense of industry and capital and then wrap it all up in the transposition of European regulations. The opening part of the law itself is quite flawed. Thus, for example, we have in the chapter on the reasons for the need to amend or supplement the existing regulation, written down only, quote, "the reason for the amendment, and the addition of the Environmental Protection Act is in particular the transposition of the requirements of Directive 2012/18/EU into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and the elimination of inconsistencies or shortcomings in the transposition of Directive 2004/35/EC and Directive 2008/101/EC, as established by the European Commission". Therefore, in the section on the grounds for the adoption of the law there is nowhere to be mentioned, nor is there a reason for the suspension of the time limit for the validity of the environmental permit, but the reduction of environmental standards, and the abolition of the provision under which an investor must first obtain an environmental permit as a precondition for the construction of the plant for which an environmental permit is required. Well, at least the latter coalition with the amendments on the board even deleted. An interesting chapter on public participation in the drafting of the law is also read. The NGO and the Engineering Chamber made comments which objected to the lifting of the time limit on environmental permits, but the comments were not taken into account as they were not, in the view of the Ministry, justified. Why they are not justified, then the Ministry explains by practically copying what it wrote a few chapters before that — and it does not further substantiate anything. In addition to the abolition of the environmental permit, which is in itself a reduction of environmental standards, the law lowers environmental standards at two more points, as set out in Articles 10 and 25. The law provides that the Ministry will be able to set less stringent emission limit values unless significant pollution is caused and a high level of environmental protection is maintained as a whole. This is only on the basis of the operator’s assessment, which will show that achieving emission levels related to the best available techniques as described in the BAT conclusions would result in disproportionately higher costs compared to environmental benefits. This is controversial in a number of ways. Firstly, the basis for the reduction is the assessment of the operator. All other stakeholders, says the local community, profession and NGOs, are excluded from the more pollution decision-making process, although it is the surrounding population that will suffer the most because of this, for example, external pollution costs for the treatment of pollution-related diseases will, of course, be borne by someone other than the country! A reduction in limit values is allowed if existing costs are higher than environmental benefits. Here the interest of capital is clearly placed before the interests of the environment, people and animals living in this environment. Thirdly, the reduction of border emissions is allowed if the costs are disproportionately high, I quote, "for reasons of geographical location or local environmental conditions of the device". That can't be an excuse. The limit values are all the same and are, inter alia, determined on the basis of health risk assessments of the presence of certain substances in the environment. For example, we have unwinded valleys where incinerators stand. And it's clear that the problem is not this valley that's been in that place forever, but this incinerator. Then who put it there, and who's going to run it, I ask you? Turnovers, which pose a risk to environmental pollution and therefore to human health, should be built on suitable sites. And that's clear as day! Furthermore, the provision that more pollution is permitted, I quote again, "if this does not cause significant pollution of the environment and maintains a high level of environmental protection as a whole", is also disputed because we do not know at all what is the state of the environment, of respectable colleagues and colleagues! The latest environmental report was issued in 2010 for 2009. We do not have any later official data, although Article 106 of the ZVO-1 requires the Ministry to draw up a report on the environment in the Republic of Slovenia at least every fourth year. The report should have been issued two years ago, and we still do not have it, and we continue to refer to some reports that we do not have. How can you make a positive decision if you do not have what you choose to do?? In short, a few months ago we were able to read that the land around Cinkarna Celje has a higher zinc content than zinc ore itself, but these areas are still officially unpolluted and can continue to be free of pigs and emissions can also increase. Well, what do the residents say about this, and their health, and cancer, and the hospitals, and this cost? We need to think about this, colleagues and colleagues. Well, and we cannot and will not agree to such provisions in the law in the ZL, and I hope that you too will not agree to such provisions in more detail. Nor do we need to copy all EU directives, and we do not need to follow the strictest standards as mentioned earlier. Of course not, but let it re-examine all options and transform them differently, or at least define cases where higher pollution is permissible. Well, here I have in mind the deleted time limits of the environmental protection permit. The proposed law removes this time limit and, due to certain transpositions of the Directive, it is now laid down that the operator of the device must announce any change in the installation or activity and then be granted a new authorisation. In addition, each device should be under the supervision of the competent inspections at all times. Yeah. This seems a good enough reason for the Ministry to lift the time limit of the environmental protection authorisation on behalf of removing administrative barriers. It is true, however, that an environmental authorisation must be reviewed every 10 years in case there are no requests for changes or inspections, but that is not sufficient. The proposed arrangement is still weak for several reasons. Firstly, the environmental authorisation is in itself an administrative obstacle. That's very clear. It is an obstacle that is set out for a very clear and precise purpose; that is, to ensure the protection of the environment and of the people living in this environment. Therefore, the argument that administrative obstacles must be removed in this particular case is, excuse me, totally inappropriate. Another time. Even the burden of this extension of the authorisation has been passed on to the country which has to inspect the establishments. The controller must now state everything in the application and also stand and legally answer for his statements. Now all of this goes to the state and to the thoroughness of the inspection services. Third time. While the Ministry argues that in no way does the role of the public change in the authorisation decision-making procedures and also the Coalition’s claim – otherwise – but the role of the public then disappears once the authorisation has been issued. Now the public has had the opportunity to participate in these procedures, if not otherwise, at least once every ten years, but now licences are valid for an indefinite period and will be checked every ten years and the public will not be included in the verification. Fourth time. Following the current regime, an environmental authorisation may be renewed if the device meets the conditions under which an environmental authorisation is granted when it expires. This means that, at the time of the renewal decision, the device must comply with those requirements which apply to the issue of an environmental authorisation for a new installation, which includes a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, but this is again discarded in the absence of a environmental authorisation and inspection. In short, as this is not enough, the Government, at its last regular meeting among the key objectives of the Government in 2016, will also include a new concept of faster acquisition of environmental permits that will allow for access to space based on significantly less extensive documentation. Ladies and gentlemen, as many of us as are still here! I don't know what happened at the government. I really don't know. I do not know what has happened that commitments to ensure a clean environment and to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies no longer apply. I just can't believe you don't see the point of making such provisions either! No European directive obliges us to do so, and this is also recognised by the Government in this bill. Therefore I urge you to reconsider that we will not be alone again in the United Left, to support our amendments and thus show that you care about the environment in which we live, because you know that the richest ones on this earth are already looking for other planets that are fit for life; but you, us, and me, and our children and grandchildren will not be on this ark of Noah! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The Replica has Mr. Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you. I think I was misunderstood. I am not giving priority to capital, but to new jobs, to the added value that we have to create so that we can also talk here about getting wages. We don't throw up a cent or a euro in our speech, but someone has to create the added value to fill the budget so that we can manage it here. When you said where we were going to live. Yes, we have grown 150,000 hectares of agricultural land in 10 years. We have more forests and less food. We don't have anywhere to grow it. I think that the European rules on environmental protection are quite precise and quite good if we sum them up. But if we sharpen them, I'll just say, just for example, a device, a machine that we don't manufacture with us, that an investor buys in Germany, up there is a sign C, which means that it's made according to all the European regulations that apply to us, and we're going to invent one limit value that's above that, and this machine is not going to work and it's not going to work. We're one area, and I don't think we need to make things up. When you said that the environmental permit would be obtained earlier – only: good morning, I can tell Vlad! Lately, not to sharpen! I don't know. You're so tight or you're just throwing up capital; capital like Marx and Engels. [[…]] It's not about capital, it's about work, it's about new jobs, it's about added value. However, I agree that these limits must be tightened. The environments you mentioned, the incinerators I don't know, but they're at least 50 years old — even more! This is inherited and, of course, must be brought to those limits so that they do not pollute the environment. If he can, if he can't, close up; I totally agree with you. But because of some of these objects, we can't shut everything down, fear everything, and limit every activity, every activity to the disabled, like we're going to live from not knowing what From the bird singing or what? Are we going to take the material from below? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u89	Replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u90	Did you print a steak on the printer or a cake or something? [[…]] People have to create. But the rules must be lifelike.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u91	Mr. Bell Lah, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u92	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word No, there's no replica on the replica. [[…]] Mr. Igor Zorčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I'd like to respond a little to my colleague Violeta Tomic's discussion. This debate capital or the environment – I cannot agree with this, the matter is not so dichotomy, it is very connected. The capital isn't just yachts, because my friend Lach said it well. These are also jobs. The regulation proposed in the new law is also not some environmental degradation, as has been said, some environmental defeat, but is an arrangement that is in line with European legislation. Why am I now referring to this European legislation? Until the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, we have received the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State which has attached this law. We have now received another opinion subsequently in the UDIS, which opposes this law. We also received some comments from a civil initiative from Anhove – Eko Anhovo. I will say so; I went then to this regulation brother because I was really interested in what this regulation says, whether it really is in line with the regulation and I find that it is. If this is in accordance with the Regulation, we need to know that other European countries also have legislation that is in accordance with the Regulation. If we have some kind of plant near the border and we are very strict, but our neighbouring country is a little less strict, but we are both in the framework of European legislation, then it may happen to us that this plant will be 50 meters across the border, and we will also be receiving all those emissions from which we are being fenced ourselves by losing different jobs. The government responded to the opinion of the State Council and explained very clearly why this environmental permit, why it no longer needs to be valid. In the law itself, more than a large number of these guards have been installed, saying to the inspectors that, if not allowed by any change in the environmental protection system, they must, on official duty, review and examine the possibility or update the conditions for the authorisation itself. I think that this has sufficiently ensured that there will be no environmental degradation. It also follows from the regulation under consideration that this determination of the period of validity of the authorisation is not even specified and, in fact, I think that we are one of few countries, if there is one in the EU that knows it. This is not the case in other European countries. I think that this system of inspections is completely permissible, and we do not have any data to do so, because these devices that need an environmental permit are not so large again that the inspection would not be able to review all of this as prescribed by the law. They were likely, but only the Ministry was likely or Arso was also, especially Arso, in some administrative difficulty, when, for example, they had some proposal to change the environmental permit, for example, after eight years, after two years, it is said that when the ten-year period expired, they had to reissue or extend the environmental permit. In short, completely unnecessary administrative operation with these environmental permits. But the difference isn't in anything. You mentioned the presence of the public. I looked into the Protection Act because I was looking for those provisions concerning the public. I've found that over a hundred times the public has been mentioned. I think he's got plenty of options. Of course, in different parts of the various acts of rights, they have the possibility to comment, to look at various environmental permits, to obtain data on the device; in short, I believe that the Aarhus Convention is largely or highly implemented, so that I have no comments in this regard. So, I am sure that this law on environmental protection or the amendment of the law will in no way degrade our environment, to some extent simplify certain administrative procedures, the public will still have the opportunity to have an insight into what is going on around it, what devices are working in its vicinity, so that this amendment proposed by the United Left would in fact mean a step backwards in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The Minister for Environment and Space has the floor, and then I'll start a new application. I now give the floor to Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for the Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you. In this implementation, I would look only at some of the comments made or at the comments made in a way that might create some discomfort for our citizens or could be misled in this way. I have already said over the period that last year, with the transposition of IEDs and Directives, the mandatory legal document of the European Union, which must be respected by all Member States, has caused all environmental permits to have to be renewed, amended, upgraded in 2016 and 2017. In the event that such an environmental permit has not been changed, let's say that something like this happens, and we have a security guard in Articles 77 and 78 who speaks of the obligation of the administrative authority to open the procedure in such a case. Already in this law, he has brought in an environmental permit in 2004, and many permits have been issued in 2006, 2007 and up to now, and in all these years, companies with changes in process technologies have obtained new or updated environmental permits. In the part where the public is involved, this change that we are talking about today is without prejudice: this means that by now the citizens have been protected, they have been able to take part in the proceedings and so will be in the future. To say that this change of law now reduces the legal security of our citizens – I do not agree and, of course, strongly reject it. It is also nice to talk about how we care for our citizens, we all use it, and I will use it without any restrictions, and to make it look like someone else in the claims that it puts profits ahead of people's interests, of course, can be enjoyed, and I guarantee that people, our citizens, are first. But if I now speak of myself as Minister of Environment and Space, it is nature, environment, and space that will follow people. And when you talk or when you talk about these dimensions, at least in my work, I realize that all these things are very intertwined and cover the whole of Slovenia. I agree that, in the past, this has not been seen in such a way that individual productions, which have had high or significant influences in their environment, but today, with all these regulations, with the monitoring of releases, I guarantee that this is no longer the case. This means that, once again, environmental licences began to be issued in 2006, by adopting last year's regulations for IED procedures, all environmental permits or all undertakings will be obliged to prepare amendments or to properly evaluate their existing environmental permits and adapt them to these new regulations. If, for any such or other reason, an undertaking fails to do so, it will, within the framework of Articles 77 and 80, provide for this procedure to be opened on an official basis and, like the other procedures, it is also governed by this procedure, so that the public has the possibility of having an impact. I admit that quite a few things have been said so that procedures themselves would spend too much time to explain them, but environmental permits are indeed specific procedures and cannot be equated or compared with procedures for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. I won't say any more than that in this part. However, I would prefer to say that with the amended legislation governing spatial planning, construction of buildings and of engineers or architects, of course we are not talking about faster procedures for obtaining environmental permits. This seems to me to be misleading, non-professional speaking, people, citizens, but citizens can really raise their ears and say what is going on with this minister, who now wants to speed up the procedures for obtaining environmental permits. That is not true, we have in the programme to amend legislation regarding the area planning of construction permits. However, I have already said that we will have already joined in amending the Comprehensive Environmental Protection Act, where we will also introduce a procedure following the directive already issued, where the process of issuing an environmental permit over the construction process will not, in those cases, be a special procedure for the construction of buildings, but it is still in its infancy, and that is not what we would say now, just so that we will understand why we are simply stating here before the construction of the facility, because of the fact that these laws, of course, are not currently able to correct and synchronize this law, which is now in preparation, will then probably also cause us to translate some of the terms of that legislation into the Environmental Protection Act, which has been fully amended. I apologize for that, but as I said before, things are really intertwined and it is impossible to prepare the whole package simultaneously in the drafting of legislation. As far as environmentally harmful subsidies are concerned, I don't understand what this law is supposed to say. There should be no harmful subsidies and there should be no subsidies around them, but if anyone has any idea where they should be harmful, environmentally harmful subsidies, please tell me, we will examine, we will look. Because it's true, with 100% certainty, I can't say it's gone either. But they certainly don't exist in this marriage, and that's what I hope to say! This time limit on environmental permits or in obtaining this authorisation is such that in Slovenia we have a legal order which, in order to obtain an environmental permit alone, if the documentation is properly prepared, is almost too small for 6 months, a little more than 6 months is absolutely necessary, and there must also be a public decomposition. It is true, however, that the procedure that begins with this public decomposition depends on this timetable; whether there are many comments, whether there are fewer comments, or whether there is a complaint about the issue of an environmental protection permit, of course we cannot resolve this in the law and all these legal protections are available to citizens or citizens. I repeat: the public may participate in any changes to environmental permits. Here is the dilemma that, with this change of law, whatever influence we have, is not real. But with values, it's never right. In the debate itself, some point out that why values are lower, some point out why they are too high. The regulation itself allows for any derogations to be made in certain specific cases, which does not mean that such an environmental permit will not be discussed or publicised and, of course, if the environment opposes, I am sure no government will then decide to do so. Indeed, this is also illustrated by these events with the warning that PM10 particles in January are contaminated in the atmosphere in individual regions of Slovenia. It seems that, of course, we cannot resolve everything in terms of measures and regulations for a short period of time. We are looking for long-term solutions, and we are also earmarking certain financial resources for this. We note that part of this pollution has also been transferred from neighbouring countries, and therefore, in the overall environmental impact assessment there are inter-state assessments and measures, and I hope to say that the protection of our environment is intended for a lot of procedures, including a lot of the financial resources that the investor has to provide to carry out these procedures, and a lot of concern, not only in our ministry, I am happy that for such a good, healthy environment we are taking great care of all Slovenians. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. I fully agree that the Ministry of Environment and Space must, in the first place, look at and take care of nature and the environment, but this is not just about transposing directives. I stress this, this transfer has been used to reduce environmental standards. Don't think that we who advocate higher environmental standards don't automatically like jobs and that we think we're going to live from the air now. Even if we live from the air, we must live on at least a relatively healthy air. We're talking a lot about self-sustainment, food production, so we don't heal the surface. However, if we completely lower these standards, our supply will be very poor and the organic production that we want because it has a higher added value than classical, it will not be possible to produce where the land is full of zinc, as in the vicinity of Cinkarna Celje. You will never have organic food there. Never. And then not many in Slovenia. What do we want? We want green sustainable jobs. Such jobs also exist and we need to consider whether we are getting more from such measures or lose more because capital must follow the sustainability of the environment. Now we say, we'll be more interesting to foreign investors. Of course, foreign owners will come, they'll give us jobs, they'll pay us the smallest contributions, they'll destroy our environment, they'll scrape our profits and then they'll go with their profits, and they'll leave us with sick people. When paying the lowest contributions, these people will find it very difficult — and depending on where our health is going — to heal and burden the country again. Where we profiled here, we wonder. It is said that the long-term alternative is the only planning that is adapted to the bearable capacity of the environment and to the actual needs of society. In short, we need to look at the sustainability of our planet, because this is the only Earth we have. Do not rely on the neighbors to pollute it, but it may bring us to it, and perhaps some of us will bring something to them. In short, the concern for the environment must be our first concern, for this is the concern for our health, for the future of our descendants. Thank you. That's all I wanted to say today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. A few more thoughts based on the debate itself. See what these things look like in practice with us in Slovenia. The installation of the first windmill on the Great Rib, which lasted 12 years, let us ask whether it is environmental damage or economic damage. For me, it's economic damage. And there are some other cases like this. Furthermore, this fear of how we lower standards and so on. No, in Slovenia we are on all the criteria with limit values above the European average. See, Slovenia has the largest area of protected areas of Nature 2000. It's mostly all over Europe. Also, this law, which provides the possibility of less stringent limits and environmental licensing measures, is said to be given by the European Directive; we in the law understand it well; the government can lay down rules that may be lower or higher. [[…]] But in the conclusion of this article we have written, "the required values in these more detailed rules may also be more stringent than the BAT conclusions." We have already made it clear in this article that in Slovenia we will probably decide to set a stricter limit here. In short, these fears, if we look at them in practice, are not in this Slovenia, because we are much stricter on some European average. Then the dilemma was also raised by Mrs Porotat, czech, investors will build the facilities without an environmental permit and then they will blackmail the acquisition of an environmental permit. Yeah, that was 30 years ago after that system. Today, however, such a naive investor will take the path of obtaining an environmental permit, and you will certainly not find one today because everyone will think very carefully about where to invest and invest their euro. Especially if it invests in Slovenia. He will easily decide if he invests in one of the neighbouring countries. Why? Because the criteria, the rules in Slovenia are much stricter. Surely no investor will take such a risk in Slovenia, so this fear is actually gone. It's practically gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-03-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. Amendments will be decided tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 16th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Good night.
