ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mr. Jožef Horvat, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Mr. Franz Laj, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Dr. Franc Trček, Miha Kordish, Mr Roberto Battelli, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mrs Ludmila Novak by 1:00 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mr Andrej Chuš, Mrs Eva Irgl and Mr Jože Tanko. I invited the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, and the Minister of Culture of Mags. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar to the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to the 2nd item of the agenda. I also welcome the other guests. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 31st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 22 April 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 56 of whom were voted against and no one opposed. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 31st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Period of the day, it's a defensive proposal for the resolution of the mags. Julian Bizarre Milky Man, Minister for Culture. The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, proposed to the National Assembly on 19 April 2016 that the Mag. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar clears the office of Minister of Culture. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to further explain the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I've sent you a proposal to relieve the Minister of Culture of Mags. Julian Bizjak Mlakar. I base my proposal on the following arguments. First time. As President of the Government, I feel that the Minister does not have sufficient personal responsibility for the joint work of the Government. This is done in violation of Article 114 of the Constitution, which provides that ministers are jointly responsible for the work of the Government. Another time. At the same time, the Minister does not exercise or is carrying out the necessary tasks in the field of her department, or very slowly, because, despite sufficient time for some fundamental legal changes and for the adoption of other urgent measures, she has not yet prepared them. Third time. The Minister has often sought reasons not to carry out her tasks by exposing the lack of sufficient budgetary resources. These were often public appearances that were or were incorrect. They're unfair because she's accepted these commitments with the government. The budget for culture has been increasing since the beginning of its mandate, often silenced by the Minister in public and unjustifiably attacked the Government and its members. Your Honor! Culture is vital in the life of the Slovenian people; it is the foundation of our identity and social development; it is an important movement of democracy. Since the independence of Slovenian cultural policy, as well as other modern European cultural policies, have been guided by fundamental principles such as freedom of expression and creation, cultural pluralism and the development of a system for the protection of their own national identity and cultural heritage. On these fundamentals, we need to build on the further development of Slovenian culture, which needs to be adequately confronted with current challenges and also in the common European space to find new opportunities for realisation. The importance of culture and its role in society is fully aware by the Government, as it also recognises the current challenges in the field of culture. That is why we have also set ourselves ambitious goals in the area of culture, which unfortunately are being achieved too slowly. In the area of culture, the National Programme for Culture should be based on a fundamental strategic document adopted by the National Assembly in 2013. This is a programme that goes beyond the political divisions and mentalities of different cultural stakeholders, as it represents a common vision of cultural development. It answers questions as to what we understand as a nation and how we see the development of culture in the future. However, at the last report by the Ministry, we have heard a great deal of evidence that the programme as such is not feasible and that it represents only a set of desires for all cultural interests. At all times, the Minister has not even taken it seriously, nor has she proposed appropriate additions, which would make sense if she does not think that this document is appropriate. The current national cultural programme is a binding document. It is based on strong cross-cutting cooperation and integration of culture into the implementation of several government policies. It also mentions development areas where culture is a development factor and is in line with the objectives of the operational programme 2014-2020. Unfortunately, these guidelines were not followed by the Minister. The operational programme was endorsed by our government and the Minister failed to properly place culture among the government's development priorities. That such action was unacceptable, members of the previous National Council for Culture also warned, and as a result, the majority of the members of the Council resigned in protest. Their opinion states that the management of the Ministry of Culture is highly political and unprofessional and that the Minister is slow in legislative changes. They also state to the Ministry that it rejects the implementation of the National Programme for Culture, that it implements reckless and authoritarian human resources policies and that the Minister does not understand the seriousness of the cultural situation. Let me point out here that the National Council for Culture is the body elected by the National Assembly and is key to overseeing the implementation of national cultural policy. Its task is to guide the national strategy for culture. Close cooperation and continuous communication between the Ministry and the National Council for Culture is therefore a prerequisite for the successful implementation of cultural policy. Unfortunately, so far such cooperation and communication has not been sufficient. I expected the Minister to manage this situation properly and quickly by intensifying her work. The existing cultural model is facing major challenges and needs to be recast accordingly. To this end, two concepts of cultural policy have been developed in the past, with no support from the Minister. It has set up a new expert commission to re-examine the potential for changes, the transformation of the cultural model, but so far without adequate results. Such an approach has now put off the necessary legal changes and other necessary measures unjustifiably, which may have a specific negative impact on the culture. The Law on Public Interest in Culture, which the Minister has introduced into the legal procedure, deals only in part with problems and does not follow the resolution of a systemic problem that has long proven to be acute. Let me give an illustration of the Ministry of Culture's approach to cross-cutting coordination of this novel, where the Ministry deliberately tried to avoid a description of the financial implications. This is not the only case of poor coordination with other departments and the Government, since the Minister is not able to participate properly in the coordination procedures. Instead of seeking common solutions in the spirit of Article 114 of the Constitution when representing the interests of its department, the Minister often stubbornly exercises her will, avoids governmental proceedings and does not listen to the strong arguments and joint decisions of the Government. The next important area that has not been adequately addressed by the department under the leadership of Minister Bizjak Mlakareva is the reform of media legislation. This requires a systematic and comprehensive view of the regulation of the Slovenian media landscape in a rapidly changing global environment. In this area too, the ministry's work is too slow and even shows the absence of an understanding of the acute nature of the problems. In May 2015, the Ministry of Culture drafted amendments to the Media Act in just a few areas. They were addressed from May 2015 to February 2016 instead of preparing and proposing comprehensive answers to key questions for the development of Slovenian media. The Minister was also reminded of this by a number of experts, associations and programme publishers. However, within 19 months of her mandate, the Minister did not prepare a draft law on the media or the law on RTV Slovenia or possibly the law on audiovisual media services. The government has ambitious cultural heritage plans. These are also enshrined in the coalition agreement. Despite the coalition's expectations, there has been a significant understatement in this area, and apparently there is also a delay. At the beginning of the mandate, the Minister announced that cultural heritage would be a priority and that it would be well taken care of. It has thus drawn up a draft law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes in culture, which is poorly justified and without clear priorities. Its proposal contains only flat-rate justifications for investments of almost €185 million, only on eight sides. The proposed sum of investments is clearly unrealistic and cannot be secured even with greater economic growth in the integral resources of the budget. The last example of the Minister of Culture's actions or actions, as I have said many times before, was a chapel over the edge. This is a failure to comply with the Government's decisions on the transfer of mine management and all related tasks to the Idria Heritage Management Centre in 2014. These conclusions finally provided the legal basis for maintaining the heritage of the mercury mine in Idrija, which is listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. As a result of the Minister's opposition, the implementation was not possible, as the centre as an heir to the inheritance could not carry out its tasks Even though the funds were available, the funding was substantially cut down, which is reflected in the dangerous deterioration of the situation in Idrija. The minister claims that the Government is imposing mining work on her, which is, of course, an untruth and nonsense, because the mine has long been out of operation. The Ministry of Culture has never received, I stress, the task of mining has never been given. The Government Decision clearly distinguishes the powers between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Ministry of Economy thus finances the necessary maintenance and technical supervision of the cave and the Ministry of Culture takes care of the internationally recognised cultural heritage of the Idrija mine. The claims of alleged overriding of the Ministry of Culture's obligations and interference with the economic field without adequate financial and human resources capabilities are so misleading. The Ministry also did not respond adequately to the false allegations that the tasks related to the Idrija mine would cost up to EUR 12 million. Of course, this calculation doesn't hold. The cost sharing is clear all the time. The Ministry of Economy contributes 450,000 euros and the Ministry of Culture contributes 40,000 euros. Dearly respected, the Ministry of Culture and Minister of State is responsible for guiding and fully enforcing the Government's cultural policy. In the hands of the Minister, there is a central coordination of the various cultural concepts and views that must be incorporated into the vision of cultural policy development. This must be reflected in the engaged, effective functioning of culture and with it in successfully linking with key stakeholders in the field of culture and in cooperation with other ministries, organisations, the professional public and the media. The secretary was unsuccessful. The ability to engage in dialogue with different stakeholders, including those with whom the Minister disagrees, is essential in the management of the Ministry. The government cannot be successfully managed if a member of the Government is not prepared to seek a solution and is reluctant to engage in dialogue. The search for compromise is a fundamental democratic way of managing policies successfully. The government's unanimous decision is, as a rule, the predominance of the coalition's compromise political decision on a specific inter-sectorally coordinated proposal and not the defeat of an individual minister, as often understood by the Minister of Culture. In addition, let me say that the public accounting and clearance of possible inter-resorial inconsistencies in the media is incorrect by any minister or minister, especially where this covers the area of culture whose basic mission is to promote and maintain those social relations that connect and do not share and serve transparent and dialogue-oriented public debates. With such an incorrect manner of public intervention, the Minister is fully aware that disagreements and disagreements in the search for common government solutions are being resolved within the Government and the coalition, and by no means by public accounting, unfounded accusations and attacks or even by non-executing legally justified decisions of the Government. Dear Members and Members of the High Council! On the basis of this, I believe and propose that the National Assembly support my proposal and mag. Juliano Bizjak Mlakar clears the office of Minister of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u3	I give my word to Minister of Culture Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u4	Your Honor! When I was appointed to the ministerial office, it was not difficult for me to open up my assets and income to the public 10 years ago. I was probably not the only one who believed two years ago that we could remove lobbying networks from public mangers, creating businesses for ourselves, and poorer public funds at the expense of increasingly poor citizens. The story of economic activities to be carried out through a public cultural institution in Idrija – which should only carry out non-economic activities, according to a 2011 decision by the Government, this institution is expected to carry out a whole range of economic activities that have nothing to do with the protection of cultural heritage, in addition to mining, hazardous waste management, advertising agencies, passenger transport and other activities – proves that lobbyist networks are still viable. They seem to even have the power to dismiss ministers who are at risk of their financial interests. Mr President of the Government, I am probably the only minister you are dismissing because I am not unconditionally obedient to your demands, which would constitute conduct contrary to the law. Your allegations of failure to comply with the Government's conclusions are not true. First of all, the task was assigned to several ministers, and only my ministry was involved in the implementation of the conclusions within its powers. Why did you not invite other ministers, who are also in charge or responsible for the implementation of the same decision, to resign? In a year you have received my many initiatives and proposals to solve the problem of mining activities in four mines. I have informed you of the problems and have asked you on several occasions to talk with the Mines competent ministers, who have mainly avoided their responsibilities. I have also presented three expert expertises, namely the European Union Law Institute, the Pirc Musar Law Office and the Slovenian Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which confirm the correctness of my decisions so far. You did not want to discuss the problems, but you expected me to be unconditionally obedient and obedient – to be filled with legal opinions that proved impossible to reach. The Ministry of Culture cannot carry out the Government's decisions on mining in the public cultural institution of Idrija in any way, because it lacks the necessary knowledge, personnel and financial resources, and it is also dangerous mining tasks that go beyond the statutory powers of the Ministry of Culture. In accordance with Article 32a of the Law on State Administration, the Ministry of Culture performs tasks in the fields of art, culture, cultural heritage, film, media, Slovenian language and religious freedom. For a year, I did my best to deal with the problems of mines with you and the competent ministers for the sake of the people of Idria. Among other things, I have proposed to stop the destruction of the mine in Idrija, and the workers would continue the mining work necessary to protect Idria in the new company, and you did not want to hear about this reasonable solution, either from Minister Marble, who is responsible for the Slovenian State Holding Company, which owns the mine, nor from other ministers. For the rest of our suggestions in the government, too, there was no listening. Due to the incompetence of the Government's decisions on the transfer of mining to culture, the Ministry of Culture has submitted a proposal for the establishment of a special government interdepartmental working group to prepare solutions for all four mines to move to culture. Mr President of the Government, you are asking for my discharge because it is not immediately possible to do something that cannot be done in the way you demand, because it would violate the laws and, in view of the legal opinions obtained, also endanger the lives and property of the population and also damage the cultural sector that I am leading. At the same time, you deceive the public that the cultural budget is not threatened by the activity of the public institution in Idrija. By Decision of 2 July 2016, the Council adopted Decision (EU) 2016/679 on the conclusion of the Agreement on the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’) on the European Economic Area (‘the EEA Agreement’), and in particular Article 2 thereof. 4. In 2015, the Government commissioned the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the Ministry of Culture to submit a proposal to define the systemic orderliness and classification of the rehabilitation of the mine from Idria exclusively under the responsibility of one or another source and thus to provide budgetary resources – redistribution of spending rights from one source to another. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology states that they are not responsible for mining and culture is. It is known that resources in the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are not sufficient to finance mines. The employment of miners as public servants in the cultural sector also means the payment of mining activities from the cultural budget and the responsibility for their work, which culture cannot bear. Not to mention mining damage, which is estimated to already amount to millions of euros. In spite of the opposition of the Ministry of Culture, even the restoration of the slaughterhouses, which should have been financed by the managers so far, the government has transferred around €2 million of cultural money to the public administration of Idria. Not to mention the cultural burdens of all those economic activities that are also to be carried out in the Idrija public institution. To satisfy the appetites of the planners of mining and other economic Idrian businesses, will you take on cultural public institutions, NGOs and independent culturers? On day 31. 12. In 2015, 32 outstanding decisions were taken by the Government. Why did you not call for the resignation of ministers who did not implement the remaining 30 decisions of the Government? In your proposal for my resolution, you have indicated that this month the mine in Idria will be completely destroyed. Are you even aware that Idrija has predicted a disaster? That is why I would like to inform you, the Slovenian State Holding and Government, that stopping the use of mine water, the maintenance and control of the indemnified part of the cave would directly endanger the existence of the city of Idrija and life and the property of the people there. The Ministry of Culture and Public Administration of Idria is not qualified, has no knowledge and no personnel and has no financial resources to take over a dangerous mining activity. If the Slovenian state-owned holding company had indeed destroyed the mine in Idrija at the end of April, you would have caused a general threat to the lives of people or property of great value, which is also a crime under Article 314 of the Penal Code. Therefore, I urge you to stop immediately the activities of the Slovenian State Holding Company, which would cause disaster. I believe in the President of the Government who would listen to the arguments and respond to the legitimate needs of the people. You can't do that. If you cared about people or culture, they wouldn't be mines in culture, but authors in the economy. In a government that works in the interests of lobbying, it ignores legality and morality, but above all it does not see the problems of ordinary people who pay taxes, respect the laws, and their dignity is stolen, I do not see. That is why, when I reject your remaining statements, I will give you an irrevocably resignation from the post of Minister of Culture because you have finally lost my trust because of your unreasonable demands and actions in connection with the mining business to be carried out by the public cultural institution in Idrija. In fact, you rejected the incorrect allegations of my work two months ago when you said publicly that I enjoyed your confidence that there was no reason for my replacement. At the end of 2015 in Studio at 5 p.m. on Radio Slovenia, you expressed my support for my work and said that it was only for ultimatum for some of the retired members of the National Council for Culture. Indeed, it was an ultimatum, also linked to the debt of Emotionfilm, which should return some 300,000 euros to the budget due to the failure to meet the contractual obligation. Your statements about laws that are not supposed to be drawn up are also unjustifiable. We have prepared all the proposed 9 legislative proposals. Most of them were already adopted in the National Assembly. You promised to help with the three system laws, which have been blocked for almost a year by the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mr Dragan Matić, and that was not the case. Therefore, the evidence regarding the rest of the laws may fall on you. We have done our full work in culture. Unwarranted statements about the lobbying and corruption of RTV Slovenia have been made to me, although this has already been strongly rejected in the National Assembly by means of a magnetogram of the Council of State. The words that were read to me are not even in the magnetogram of my speech. Nor do they hold your statement about the lack of media dialogue. There has never been so much dialogue in the field of media. On the contrary, the lack of amendments to the only sentence have recently been introduced to the Media Law, which is to be drawn up by the president of the Committee on Culture, Mr Dragan Matić. But to date, I have received many expressions of support from cultures from my country and abroad. I was most proud of the recognition of the writer Boris Pahor, the academic and poet Cyril Zlóbc and other eminent culturers, trade unions, associations and public institutions in the field of culture. But I also thank the mass support I have received in recent days. Why is there so much support from culture? The statement that the National Programme for Culture should not be taken into account and you simply made it up. The programme concerns the work of many stakeholders in culture and is largely being implemented. However, the part of the programme cannot be met, which the programme foresees an additional EUR 805 million because the culture does not have this money. You are unwarranted to me that we have not prepared any changes to the programme in the work that cannot be done. We have acted on the recommendations of the Government and Parliamentary Law Service that it is not in the nature of the resolutions in order to amend them in the meantime. Furthermore, due to the late adoption of the resolution, this would have been adopted at the time that it had ceased to apply and therefore it would not have made sense to amend it. However, the Ministry is preparing a new national programme for the period 2008-2021. Nor does your statement on the cultural model. Modernisation of the cultural system is part of the proposal for the ZUJIK novel as regards the solution to the problems of independent creators in culture. For an original solution, we get support from the country and abroad. It is up to you to put the law into the government's session and finally accept it. The Commission for the Modernisation of the Cultural System is also putting an end to work. In May, we are expected to start public discussions on the proposed solutions. The Ministry insisted on achieving public interest and ensuring the quality, accessibility and diversity of culture. We have stabilised finance for culture in all areas, except in the area of cultural heritage, because, as has already been said, the Minister of Finance has been stopping the law on the so-called cultural euro for a year now that the law has financial implications. You are most responsible for the fate of the law, who do not listen to me and the many supporters of the law in order to have the law classified and adopted at the government meeting. In 2014, we realised almost €4 million more than in 2013 and in 2015 we realised more than €2 million more than in 2014. Culture was first classified in 2016 as soft content from European grants obtained for cultural projects in other ministries. Thus, in the period until 2020, we will implement 14 European projects worth €34.5 million, creating an electronic archive and promoting cultural creativity. There is also no justification for the disclosure of media legislation, as in accordance with the adopted resolution of the National Assembly in June this year a media strategy will first be submitted to the government and, in accordance with the Government's normative programme of work, a comprehensive revision of media legislation will follow in 2017. With regard to Miha Turšić, the Director of the Public Institute of KSEVT, the budgetary inspection confirmed the appropriateness of the Ministry of Culture's conduct. She found more irregularities in the operation of the KSEVT Public Institute, including that Miha Turšič, as director of the KSVET, dealt with his private public office, where he was also the director, and was supposed to settle his debts to his ex-wife, inter alia, through public funds. All your findings, Dr. Cerar, are unfounded. I believe you're well aware of that yourself. And here's my indiscretion of your work that I'm leaving this government with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u5	Because he's a magician. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar announced her resignation as Minister of Culture, and there are no formal conditions for further consideration of the Prime Minister's proposal for the discharge of the Minister. I hereby end this item of the agenda, which we will continue when, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I receive a written notice from the President of the Government concerning the resignation of the Minister of Culture. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10:40.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u6	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the continuation of the 1st item of the agenda, this is on the proposal for the resolution of mags. Julian Bizjak Mlakar, Minister of Culture. I inform you that you have received a notice from the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar of the resignation of the Minister of Culture of Mag. Julian Bizjak Mlakar. On the basis of the above, the continuation of the consideration of the Prime Minister's proposal for the discharge of the Minister is irrelevant, and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 2. On behalf of the President of the Republic of Slovenia on this matter, this is a recommendation made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the status of the Slovenian military and the request for the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 26 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. On the basis of Article 107(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 223(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 26 Members with first-signed Mr Jožet Tank also proposed that the National Assembly request an opinion on this matter from the President of the Republic of Slovenia. As the time limit in which the National Assembly wishes to obtain the opinion of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, it proposed three days. On the basis of the decision adopted by the 59th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposal for a further explanation of the proposal to obtain the opinion of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u7	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! Two years will pass since the Russian annexation of Crimea. Two years will pass since the geopolitical and, consequently, the security situation in the world has changed dramatically. The Russian pressure from the East – unstable, Middle East and, of course, South Africa, where we can find only a handful of countries where there are no armed or other conflicts, dictate the need to reflect on what security we want, what rights we will offer to our citizens and citizens and how we will organise our armed and other forces that are suitable for conflict intervention. All of this calls for a debate and serious reflection on how we will be able to defend our values in the future, if you want, even our sovereignty. The pressures on our borders have increased in recent months. All these conflicts are caused by pressure from migrants. Because it does not appear that the situation would improve, but we know what is happening in our defence and security system, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with New Slovenia, we have proposed that we discuss this and invite the Commander of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor. The reason for such a proposal is because we have been monitoring mainly through the media in recent months, which is worrying. Data on the state of the Slovenian Army, that authority in that country, which is to defend all three constitutional elements of this country by physical force: government, people and territory. Given that we are witnessing a number of negative data, given that we are witnessing the latest report on the situation in the Slovenian Army, which for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia is insufficiently reducing the exercises of the Slovenian Armed Forces, the Deputy Chief of Staff gave an interview for one of the media where he said there are virtually no bullets, we have a problem in the structure itself, we have a problem with the personnel and so on, the number of soldiers is decreasing. [[…]] The question is also how successful will be the realization of the thousands of 500 contractual members we want by the end of 2016. We are far from NATO’s commitments, and all of this is due to the decline in defence funds in recent years. There were other reasons for this. At that time, no one, unfortunately, was counting on the world situation to change so strongly that for the first time since independence, we will be facing a serious security test. Last year, the President of the Government promised Secretary General Stoltenberg that Slovenia would no longer reduce funds for the defence budget. However, they fell again in 2016. In doing so, it should be pointed out that NATO does not take into account nominal resources. These increased by €5 million, mainly because 5 million has been transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Defence to pay international membership fees. According to GDP, which is the only relevant criterion in the NATO Union, our budget has fallen, it is also declining next year and no positive changes are expected by 2018. That's what you're saying. We don't take into account those commitments we made to Nate. But, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time, it's not just about NATO, it's about our safety. The government has adopted the medium-term defence programme of the Republic of Slovenia, which is nothing ambitious. Unfortunately, this situation – status quo – only prolongs agony until 2020, as you wrote in the SOPR that until 2018 there is no expectation of an increase in funding, which also reflects the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 and 2017. We are also far from the main commitment that we made to Nate when he was included, that is to establish a middle battalion fighting group. In short, these are all the reasons for the debate and for the recommendations we have proposed to the Government to provide EUR 46 million this year, as proposed by the Chief of Staff, to prepare a strategic defence review, to establish a medium-term battalion fighting group by 2018 and to increase the criteria for joining the military from 25 to 27 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u8	A presentation of the views of the delegations on this proposal follows. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u9	Good afternoon. Safety is very similar at some point to clean air; as long as we have it, it seems to us that when we no longer have it, we are in great trouble and are looking for ways to reassert this clean air. It's very similar with peace. When we have it, it seems that when it's gone, there's a lot of trouble. Perhaps all of us and all of us, together with all citizens, have lived with some feeling that Slovenia is an extremely safe country in which virtually no security incident is possible. All these things have changed significantly over the last period. Slovenia is also placed on a map of those where, under unpleasant circumstances, any terrorist activities may also occur. That is why this house and the whole policy must do everything in its power to ensure as much as possible for the safety of its citizens. And the appropriate skill of the security forces, if you want the armed forces, is extremely important in this light. Over the last six years, the defence budget of Slovenia has been declining all the time. In the last six years, it has practically fallen by 40%, if I speak in nominal terms, it is over €250 million. Of course, with EUR 250 million less, it is not possible to ensure the same level of readiness and also the effectiveness of the Slovenian armed forces. If you look at the ratio of how the defence budget is spent and how the Slovenian Armed Forces are financed, you will find that the total amount is paid. Somewhere, the ideal ratio would be to allocate 50% for salaries, 30% for regular maintenance and operation and 20% for investment and development. We are far from that, we give only 0.7% for investments. Some gold standard developed within NATO is 2/20, which means that 2% of the gross social product is to be given for the defence budget and 20% for investments within it. We give less than a percentage for defence expenditure or for the defence budget and for investments. As a matter of fact, less than a percent. This leads us to some unsustainable situation and with this proposal to call on the President of the Republic to express ourselves, we want to contribute to the formation within Parliament of a broad political consensus that defence spending should be increased. Of course, we are aware that if we increase them, it will have to be taken away somewhere, but we are at a time when it is no longer possible to tighten the belt, at least in the area of defence spending, and therefore there must also be a clear political message from this house that we are ready to change these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u10	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, both presidents, co-workers, colleagues, ministerial council! Security is the fundamental good of the democratic world and of every individual living in such a world. In particular international circumstances, the issue of security has again become a priority issue of our political action, both in the internal political and in the foreign policy sense. Internally – from the point of view of action in the National Assembly, in particular from the point of view of the work of the Defence Committee, we have shown the seriousness and commitment of addressing these issues. Five regular, twenty emergency meetings of this committee alone were called. And through the discussions in this committee, it has proved to be very important – and also appears in the overwhelming majority of the points – a single position of both the parties and the opposition's sentinel groups as well as of the coalition that the area of defence and security must be given special attention. It has also been shown that the only issue is not only the financial situation and the situation in the field, but that this issue of security and defence needs to be opened up much more systematically, much more comprehensively, and that this cannot be done quickly, that the defence situation needs to be improved, discussed patiently, prudently and with a clear vision, and that the necessary changes must be integrated in this way. The responsibility for such complex issues has also proved to be not only on the shoulders of Members or only on the Government or the competent ministry, but on all stakeholders in the political system in our country. Which means that in this light a very important role must also be played by the main and responsible holder of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic. And in this light, we certainly assess and support the proposal that, under Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia will come to this consideration of our extraordinary meeting and present his position and his assessment. So in the SMC Group, we support the proposal to be presented by the President of the Republic or to gain an opinion on the content to be addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u12	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u13	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Ever since the Defence Act was amended 12 years ago, this National Assembly has not yet held a broader and more serious debate on the state of the defence in the Slovenian Army. That's why there was no need. If ever, now's the last time. We have a lot to talk about on the Defence Committee, but this is a topic that concerns the entire National Assembly. And let this session not be a meeting in terms of interference, who is the means of contraction and who is not giving them now, but let us talk about what kind of defence-security system we want and where we see an army in the future. In the last year, there have been many proposals for improvements, reforms or the fallback of the Slovenian Army. In particular, I have in mind, for example, a reserve, here are proposals for a re-establishment of the recruitment system, national guards, territorial defence, or even the abolition of the military. In all these proposals, it is not easy to swing with your left hand, but everyone needs to be discussed, because now that there is a time of crisis, we see that this system is no longer sufficient for the need to respond seriously to crises. If I divide the Slovenian army in grave terms, it has two tasks — working in quiet times and working in wartime. At Nat, too, we are recognized that our army is highly qualified to operate in low-intensity operations. To operate in high-intensity operations, if you want, in combat operations, which is the primary task of the Slovenian Army, the assessment is insufficient. However, the assessment is not sufficient because our members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces would not be well trained, but because they do not have the appropriate equipment, because there are no structures in terms of the battalion fighting group, either mechanized or motorized, whatever this will be so as to be able to participate in such conflicts and fighting operations. They are not only financial resources, but in particular financial resources are needed, and much needs to be done for the structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces alone. There's something we can do with what we've been given. So then the strategy is 2/20; if we don't already have 2% of GDP for defence, at least within this structure, let's try to raise this structure from 0.7% of GDP to 20% within the defence budget for investment, where we are on the tail of NATO. I hope that this debate will not only be one of the many debates that we agree on in most cases, but will bring concrete commitments and concrete answers: "by then and then we will do this and that". As I said before, we will support this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u14	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u15	President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greeting also to the President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, including you, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members, we are aware of the financial problems our country has faced. We are also aware of savings in all areas, as well as in the Slovenian Army of course. Savings have infringed on human rights. Here I am primarily referring to the area of salaries, pensions, then social transfers; in short, the provision of social welfare in general. In this light, I also understand saving in the Slovenian Army, but all we have to do is draw attention to some of the facts that have happened in the last period. Here I am primarily referring to the threats of the Islamic State and the mass terrorist attacks, including in the heart of Europe. As a result, of course, there is also a large migration flow that affects the security situation in our country as well. That is why we must also be prepared in Slovenia for all these events and, of course, ensure for the security of more resources, for security as a consequence of our citizens and citizens and all those in our country. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the financial resources of the defence should also be gradually increased. In this situation, however, we should make more efforts to find internal reserves and thus provide additional resources for the needs of our army. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates that the President of the Republic is the supreme commander of our armed forces, so it is important that he also declares the state of our army. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe it is right that he should come to the National Assembly and present to us his opinion or position on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Of course, we will listen with attention to his opinion or position. We will also support the proposal in the parliamentary group in accordance with the opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u16	Mr Matjaž Han, a group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u17	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Minister of Defence, colleague and colleague! The Constitution provides for the President of the State to represent the country and the Constitution provides for the President of the State to be also the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces. Since we have a very important agenda item at today's meeting, of course, we will support the recommendation that the President of the State come to the National Assembly and present his opinion on the situation in the Slovenian Army. If ever, then we must now abstain in this House from all demagogic, political and other debates, especially when we are talking about the Slovenian Army and the defence of our country. Many times we Slovenians in this area were able to step together, and I hope that we will also be able to step together in this work. Of course, we must be aware of the real financial frameworks that this country has. We will be social democrats with a substantive view of our position 5. 5. I would like to make it clear, once again, that we support the fact that the President of the State comes to the National Assembly and also declares the situation in the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u18	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u19	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We will not support the proposal in the United Left for two reasons. The first one is procedural. Article 107 of the Constitution makes sense if the President of the Republic does not wish to speak on an important issue. On the subject of the situation in the Slovenian Army, the President made an official statement on the issue of a report on preparedness. This President's speech is also a material for this session, and if you have read it, you know that at least as long as the President's speech in the National Assembly last year, when he identified himself at our invitation until the refugee crisis. It is clear, therefore, that the applicants know the position of the President of the Republic and are probably exploiting the Constitution for something else. They expect the President to support their demands to increase military spending and to increase the capacity required by NATO. In the United Left, we object for three reasons. For the first time, because this will not improve the social situation of members of the Slovenian Army. Secondly, because this will not increase the defence capacity of the state. Thirdly, because the proponents did not explain where they would have taken EUR 50 million for this because they were not budgeted. In our opinion, soldiers are mass leaving the army due to poor salaries, pointless police tasks, especially because they know they will lose their jobs 10 years before retirement, just as they will find another job the most difficult. And buying Nate's guns won't solve this problem. According to our assessment, according to the United Left, the Slovenian military is not in crisis because it would have insufficient resources, but because it is completely professional. After all, if we compare it with Austria, we see that we are spending 0.9% of GDP on defence in our country, and Austria 0.6% of GDP in Austria, and no one is talking about the crisis of the Austrian army. Therefore, of all that the President of the Republic has said in this regard, we are most supportive of the assertion that we must first clearly define the needs for each euro to be invested in a sound and responsive manner. Providing auxiliary units for the United States and the Union Then there is neither the duty nor the need for citizens and citizens of Slovenia, so prolonging the debate, which is already in the wrong direction, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-04-25-SDZ7-Izredna-31.ana.u20	We have completed our presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to decision-making. We vote on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly requires, on the basis of Article 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia to deliver an opinion within three days on the state of readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present and 62 votes against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the agreement of the 59th meeting of the College, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 5 May 2016, at 12 noon and 30 minutes. We're moving to 3. Period of the day, it's on mental-loving matters. The President of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, is today, 25. 4. 2016, the National Assembly has notified that it is a mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has resigned as Minister of Culture and will serve as Minister of Culture without a resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Mr. Gorazd Žmavc. In this regard, the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that the Minister of Culture is mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has resigned and her post as Minister has ceased. Until the appointment of the new minister, the Minister of Culture will serve as the Minister without a department responsible for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Mr Gorazd Žmavc. Because he's a magician. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar has ceased to serve as Minister of Culture, and is now acting as a Member of Parliament in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. In accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, he shall cease to act as a Member of the Magi. Jana Jenko, who performed the Magi instead of the Ambassador. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar at the time she served as Minister. That's what you're doing. Jani Jenka, thank you so much for the work done in the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 5 May 2016, and the 31st meeting of the assembly, which will continue on 5 May 2016 at 12.30 p.m.
