ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ludmila Novak from 18:00 on, Mrs Urška Ban from 14:00 on, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, mag. Tanja Zink, Mrs. Vojka Shergan, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek, mag. Branislav Rajić, Luka Mesec, Dr. Milan Brglez from 10.45 p.m. to 3 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Han from 13 p.m., Mr. Jožef Horvat, Mrs. Eva Irgl until 13 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak until 13 p.m., Mr. Franz Breznik until 13 p.m. and Mr. Ivan Škodnik from 14 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, it's on defensively mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the conclusion on the termination of the mandate of the MPs of the National Assembly of Mags. Lilliani Kozlovich. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that I am a member of the Magi. Lilliana Kozlovich 22. 9. 2016 notified that it has resigned from the function of a Member. I note that, as of today, in accordance with the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members and the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the term of office of a Member shall expire. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the National Assembly which candidate or candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member for the remainder of the term of office, which has terminated its term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose approval of the mandate and report on its findings to the National Assembly. Mag. Mr Lilliani Kozlovich terminated the term of office of Ambassador of the National Assembly, and the National Assembly, pursuant to Articles 112, 200 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is also informed of the following decision: The National Assembly notes that the MEPs are mags. Mr Lilliani Kozlovich, who has terminated the term of office of Ambassador of the National Assembly, shall terminate the term of office of President of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. It shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I thank my former fellow Member for her work and wish her much success in her further work! / applause/ We are moving on to the examination of the Conclusion on the Peace of the mandate of the Member of the National Assembly, Mr Tiln Bozic The Government forwarded the decision of 22 September 2016 to the National Assembly, from which it follows that Mr Tillen Bozič was appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. The Government's decision was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which, pursuant to Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, the following decision be taken: The National Assembly notes that Ambassador Tillen Bozič is appointed State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, and therefore, as of today, in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member while acting as State Secretary. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission of that decision and ask it to communicate to the National Assembly which candidate or candidate will be in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members of the said Member's Compensation. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State will draw up a report and forward it to the National Assembly. A Member appointed as Secretary of State may temporarily not be in a position to act as a Member of Parliament. Therefore, pursuant to Articles 112, 200 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly notes that Mr Tiln Bozič, who is temporarily unable to act as a Member of Parliament, is hereby appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, is hereby terminated as Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. It shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I thank my former fellow Member for his work and wish him much success in his further work! / applause/ Gradually, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues, colleagues! I expect a reminder, but in spite of everything. Allow me to thank my colleague Liliani and my colleague Tiln, on behalf of the Members of the Group of the Modern Centre, and especially on behalf of myself, for the extremely professional, self-sacrificing and responsible work done as a member on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre. They're leaving for the second part of the team in the second half. We want all of you to be equally responsible, equally professional, and we do not doubt that they will continue their work; with the expectation and desire that they will also bear this parliamentary experience, the needs and the role played by the legislative branch of power in relation to the executive branch and its work. Good luck, all good and thank you again!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u3	I'm not gonna make it this time. I think this is an opportunity, and it was procedurally also somehow expected. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we shall continue on Tuesday, 27. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're moving to 8. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, after a shorter procedure. We'll wait for both Members to say good-bye. Now, I'm asking you to move into your bench and continue your farewells outside. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Culture Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This law is not extensive, but it is important because it introduces an institution, a practice that most countries around us already know and use; while Slovenia has not so far, which has been an important handicap in terms of the possibilities that foreign filming in particular brings and makes possible in a given country. This is a key theme of this law, though not the only one. It is simply that the state offers some kind of financial incentive, which is subsequent, after the effects have already been ensured, especially to foreign producers, to come and take advantage of the country's attributes, which are very important and very rich for us. This allows income from various activities, from hospitality, tourism activities and so on. It is also important that these revenues and practices enable people working in the field of film, since foreign producers are then generally looking for the services of film workers in this environment. Subsequently, the State shall, in some part, return the funds invested by these producers and thereby ensure their arrival. However, practice in neighbouring countries shows that this also has significant later effects, particularly with regard to tourism, in particular in the case of certain films. It is known from the neighbouring country of Croatia that these multiplier effects are very large, for example in Dubrovnik and similar environments. In addition, the law in the first part removes the restrictions resulting from the measures at the time when the financial crisis was at its peak. In many cases these restrictions have already been lifted, the number of employees financed from the state budget and so on; these are the consequences of the so-called ZUJF. The law specifies more precisely the nature of the budgetary resources, so that there is no misunderstanding that this is a transfer and not some normal revenue of the public agencies. The law complements Article 11 of the basic law on public call procedures and the public cultural programme and coordinates the provisions concerning the mandatory revision of the Agency’s annual report. That's all, actually. Finally, let me just say that the Government has no doubts about the amendments adopted by the Committee on Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u5	The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Culture as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Culture is at its 13th regular session of 8. 9. 2016 discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, a public agency of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 67th ordinary session of 6. Seven. 2016 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. Her representative explained, however, that their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. Her representative explained that the proposal by new paragraphs 17a and 17b is an important contribution to the development of film and audiovisual creation, that it is a financial incentive measure for foreign producers, as well as a market challenge for the country and the promotion of its natural and cultural potentials. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Damjana Pečnik. The discussion was mainly about whether co-producers are entitled to the right to a cash refund, whether the cash refund will be paid from the budget line of the Ministry of Culture, how foreign direct investment will take place, and whether foreign recipients of Slovenian budgetary resources will also have any duties towards Slovenia. The representative of the Ministry of Culture explained that the monetary compensation would be paid from the specific budget line of the Ministry of Culture on the basis of a request to be issued by the Agency under the planned and available resources. In particular, it is important that this is a matter of additional resources to be paid after the imposition of the measures; the obligation of the recipient of the funds will be defined in the sub-legislative act. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of the Committee to the amendment to Article 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u8	Colleagues and colleagues! On the fifth day of the September meeting of the National Assembly, we begin with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Whether it is right or wrong; or whether it is good or not to accept it by means of a so-called reduced procedure, we will see something soon after its application and implementation. We will certainly monitor this implementation and implementation in the Slovenian Democratic Party. While individual legislative changes bring some positive solutions, such as financial incentives for foreign producers. As state councilors have also noted, the market challenge is the country and a fine opportunity to promote its natural and cultural potentials. However, it would be necessary to make use of the incentive for foreign producers for some new employment with us. On the other hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we point out that the Slovenian Film Centre must ensure consistent compliance with the legislation already in force, otherwise it is a poor host and lacks the resources at its disposal. Let me remind you, for example, when the Slovenian Film Centre or its predecessor, the Film Fund, in 2005 Emotionfilm, in advance, allocates EUR 143 000 to co-finance one of the films. The film was never formally completed, so the Slovenian Film Centre had to apply. In view of the work of our courts, it is only after ten years that Emotionfilm has decided that Emotionfilm must return these funds, with late interest, which has reached about EUR 300,000. It is interesting, however, that the Slovenian Film Fund public agency managed this debt quite extra-balance-sheetly, even though it should be known as a claim in the balance sheet. Even today — even today, respected — it is not known whether these funds have been returned in full. What does that actually mean? On the one hand, this story came into the media and is now known to everyone. On the other hand, he's talking about not knowing how many stories there are. And thirdly, what can be done now with these funds, if projects are not implemented, these recoverys are faster. We also warn in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we must do everything we can to ensure that Slovenia is not abandoned by young creators who do not come to Slovenia because the same people keep spinning around the Film Fund or its bowls. Thus they are forced to leave our country, thereby losing important talents and wealth of knowledge, which they offer more than successfully abroad. As cultural-policy partnerships have more and more demands than material opportunities, it is necessary to allocate and use resources more consistently and wisely for quality projects and thus avoid tiring tensions between each other. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Government, we expect greater determination and, on the other hand, sensitivity, by placing accelerated action among its priorities in reducing the criterion of cultural confusion. We will not oppose the proposed changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Primož Hainz, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President; Mr Minister! Position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre, Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. The key solution to the amendment proposal is to complement the law with a measure to promote investment in film or audiovisual production. This measure is intended for foreign producers who will record in our country by allowing them to recover up to 25% of the cost of production of audiovisual works in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. These appropriations will, of course, be drawn from the specific budget item in compliance with the prescribed sub-divisions. The purpose of this change is to attract foreign producers to create audiovisual works and film production in our territory. We support this measure in the parliamentary group because we expect it to have many positive effects. The excellent experience of some abroad shows that such recordings are outstanding promotions, written about them in leading world newspapers and magazines, mentioned on television programs, on social networks, and publicly praised locations by directors, producers, players and others. This attracts many tourists from all over the world to popular locations in films. In short, the funds invested in such production may be reimbursed multiple times. In Slovenia we have experience from March this year, when some scenes of the South Korean series were recorded at selected locations in Ljubljana, Piran and Bled. When this series is being broadcast, we can also expect positive effects and an increase in the arrivals of tourists from this part of the world. Our country, however, has been recognized as attractive for making individual film clippings years ago by Indians who have already made quite a few films in which Slovenia can also be seen. As we see, the interest in recording in Slovenia exists, we have a lot of natural and cultural data, that is, a lot of potential destinations for filming, which have unfortunately been underutilised so far. If we do not take this measure and neighbouring countries offer such incentives to foreign producers, they will go and record where they have better conditions. Connecting to foreign producers would also have a positive impact on the development of Slovenian film or audiovisual production. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are convinced that this change will make an important contribution to the development of film and audiovisual creation, as well as to the development of the economy and the promotion of Slovenian natural and cultural data, so we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u11	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In 2010, the National Assembly established the Slovenian Film Centre by law; an agency that previously acted as a fund. The aim of the revised regulatory environment was to ensure institutional stability and autonomy. The law established the independence of the Agency's work, where the professional public is mostly represented through the board, and provided the possibility of obtaining new sources of funding for film production. The proposal for a novel Law on the Slovenian Film Centre contains some minor corrections, but also two important definitions. The first is the abolition of the ZUJF in a work that has overstepped the institution's human resources empowerment. Secondly, it is a measure of partial reimbursement of costs incurred in film production. Part-return measure is an instrument known to the vast majority of other countries. It is intended, in particular, for foreign filmmakers who will produce in whole or in part in the Slovenian territory. Allows them to reimburse costs in the majority of 25 % of the total eligible costs for audiovisual production. This is an important incentive in the country's cultural, tourist and general economic development. It also has a positive impact on employment. There are more ways to achieve the broadest possible effects with the measure. Among them we highlight the experience of Hungary, which recently put in place a demand for each production in accordance with its size to accept a certain number of trainees. Of course, the measure itself will not be enough. It must be followed by sufficient promotion of Slovenia as an attractive film destination. As such, certain producers, such as the Indian production of Bollywood, have already identified it. The capacity of film studios will also need to be strengthened. The opportunity for abandoned factories, which were unfortunately too much in Slovenia, was recognized by Hungary and converted one of the textile factory complexes into a film studio. At these steps, it is not necessary to detect warm water, but it is wise to focus more on linking with our neighbouring countries, which have good experience through recovery measures and cooperation with foreign producers. However, the expectations of the measures cannot be overemphasized solely with financial revenues from the spending of filmmakers and with the new employment of our people. The benefits of marketing the destination of the recording are also presented as an opportunity. We have proof on our hands or on TV receivers. In addition to the script, Austrian-German producers of the series that won Slovenia presented Wilder Kaiser so vividly that they created a real small Romani route. There's no reason we can't do that. Respected and respected! As the measure to recover the funds spent on film production is expected to have positive effects on public finances through taxes paid, we expect two from the Government in the Social Democrats Group. Firstly, it will provide the budget of the Ministry of Culture with additional resources, as we do not want the measure to be covered by such modest programming resources. Secondly, to provide sufficient and predictable resources for the measure, as it would be very uncomfortable if, with the uncertainty of the height and resulting uncertainty, potential producers would be prevented from cooperating. The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a new Law on the Slovenian Film Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u13	The text shall be given by the Group of Members of the United Left, in its name Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left we will support the amendment of the Slovenian Film Centre Act, the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia. It brings some justified amendments to the law, such as ensuring that the costs of work are financed from the free cost of operation in a way that is smooth in the framework of legal tasks and that the nature of the budgetary resources it receives or is transferred to the Slovenian Film Centre is precisely defined. As a major innovation, it introduces a financial assistance scheme or, rather, monetary incentives for foreign producers whose production activity is linked to the territory of Slovenia. We've been waiting a long time for this measure. Similar ways of encouraging are known by virtually all European countries, since this area is one of few, if not the only, where the European Union is at least a little bit reliant on the Member States and allows such assistance at all. In addition to the tax, economic and tourism benefits brought by this measure, it is also important that the possibilities of additional involvement of Slovenian film or audiovisual professions and staff in film projects are expected to be opened; especially since Slovenian film production is quite small. The amendments we have adopted on the Committee have made sense to extend the range of beneficiaries and we can only hope for the greatest possible interest in recording. Our support for the novel of the Slovenian Film Center Act is not unconditional, but we support it with a healthy scale of skepticism. Some concerns need to be mentioned. In the case of a central measure, a monetary incentive scheme, it is a form of attracting foreign direct investment or, rather, foreign direct consumption. Unlike the usual government measures in attracting foreign investment, where capital attracts by reducing taxes on the richest, cutting rights and wages or privatising state silver, measures where the highest price is paid by workers; in this case, greenfield consumption is based not on competition to the bottom but on State incentives and subsidies, which is much more transparent and has no wider negative social consequences. Our thoughts are possible impacts on the environment and cultural heritage, as film teams will exploit our greatest natural beauty and outstanding cultural heritage, such as Bled, Soča, Piran and so on. Certainly it is essential that the state ensure that money does not buy everything; it will, by enforcing existing rules and preparing new ones, adequately protect the environment and cultural heritage. We will therefore closely monitor the implementation of the provisions of this Act. We also expect regular reports or evaluations on the effectiveness and implementation of these funds. In view of everything we say in the United Left, we will support the proposed amendment to the Slovenian Film Centre Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian culture is a treasurer of national creation over the centuries, so in New Slovenia we are proud of it and want to preserve it; at the same time with the relevant legislation and the government with the appropriate financial means to promote the creativity and cultural participation of modern creators. For the present and future of the national community, whose identity is not based either on the historical emphasis on national competitiveness or on the extraordinary economic or military power of its elite, culture is indispensable. Without Slovenian culture there would be neither Slovenian state nor Slovenian politics. The achievements of modern cultural creativity can also be applied as an economic category. The bill follows these principles of Christian Democrats, and we are therefore in favour of it. The applicants want to create a more attractive business environment for foreign producers or attract more foreign producers to create audiovisual works and film production in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This would be achieved by introducing the possibility of a cash refund of up to 25% of the costs involved in this creation. Such projects can also help to promote Slovenia, our natural and cultural heritage and tourism. At the same time, this is also an opportunity to employ our citizens in individual projects. The law will generally be updated and harmonised with the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. The legal restriction, which provides that the Agency may only finance the activities and tasks of the Agency, not the functioning of the Agency, from the resources of the State budget obtained by the Agency under a contract concluded with the Ministry of Culture. In addition, the nature of the budgetary resources allocated to co-financing of projects selected from the Slovenian Film Centre’s public tenders shall be determined. Proposals shall assess that, as from 2018, an additional million appropriations will have to be made available. We really hope that the idea is also favored by the Ministry of Finance and that the Slovenian Film Centre will be able to make more of this. That's the only way this would be well invested public money. Since the law brings some good solutions, the Members of New Slovenia will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u17	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Slovenian film has been financially subdued over the past few years, as the budget for all Slovenian film production is almost the same amount of money as, for example, it is necessary for a larger theatre production in the national theatre. We believe that Slovenia's film cannot function solely on a market basis because of the smallness of the Slovenian market, which cannot recover high investment costs. It is therefore necessary to support and subsidise the State or to ensure the possibility and promotion of audiovisual production. Above all, it is essential to increase the possibility of the participation of Slovenian film makers and performers in the international space, which can have a positive impact on the development of service activities related to film production. We will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members, as the law represents urgent changes in the financing of the Slovenian Film Centre. However, we expect the competent ministry in the future to become actively involved in Slovenian film and its creators, whose status is within the cultural sphere in a truly invisible position. We also expect and appeal to the government to allocate additional funds in the budget of the Ministry of Culture for this purpose and not simply to restructure financial items within existing cultural programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u19	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, on its behalf Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u20	Honorable President, Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! Today we are adopting a new law to which Slovenian film society has been waiting for too long, because the past governments for their requests have unfortunately not had a hearing despite all the expected indicators that the novel measure encourages. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are pleased that the government in this part understands the culture of politics more widely and that without pursuing the objectives of integration with other sectors such as the economy, tourism and the like, cultural prosperity will not be able to achieve it in as short a time as everyone would probably like. A major amendment to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Film Centre is the introduction of a money draw-back measure that may be required by legal and natural persons established in another Member State of the European Union, the Member State of EEC or a third country registered for film and television production; and by an executive producer established in Slovenia who has a contract for the performance of a film in the territory of Slovenia with a legal or natural person established in another European Union, a partner country of EEC or a third country which also has a registered film and television production activity. This is therefore a refund of 25 % of the total recognised costs used during the project work in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The legal and natural persons already mentioned will be able to apply for reimbursement of costs in compliance with the following conditions: they must have their copyrights for the project; they must carry out at least one project over the past three years, which has been foregone in cinematographic distribution or in the media, in accordance with the law governing audiovisual media services; they must also have the shown expenditure spent in the Republic of Slovenia for the purpose of the project, as well as the settlement of the obligations arising from taxes and contributions in the Republic of Slovenia and also in the country where they are established or permanent residence. The refund shall be applied to films intended for cinematographic performance and audiovisual works of all types intended for media play. The measure of monetary recovery is certainly of a financial and economic nature. It is intended to invest abroad economically, to develop and expand the scope of film and audiovisual activities and to increase the competitive value of this activity. The measure will also have a positive impact on service activities related to film production, thereby increasing the employment of tourism capacity and tourism-related professions such as transport services, accommodation and so on. In parallel, this will affect the visibility of individual locations of cultural and natural attractions and cultural heritage of Slovenia and thus indirectly ensure the tourism promotion of our country. In particular, the measure will allow for the expansion of the film cultural market as it will allow better and more frequent participation of Slovenian film makers with foreign film makers in the international space. It is therefore on the one hand for the flow of capital and, on the other hand, for sure for the flow of knowledge for which Slovenian film makers have also been internationally recognized and rewarded. What does the measure look like in practice? It is known that Slovenia has already hosted various films of foreign productions, Hollywood, Bollywood and similar, in various locations such as Bled, Piran, Postojna Cave because of its geographical location and diverse cultural offer. Some scenes from the Narnia Story were recorded in Soča Valley. For the purposes of this recording, for example, SGP Primorje built a bridge across Soča. A thousand 100 members of the film team occupied overnight capacity from Bovec, Trbija to Kranjska Gora. And we will further encourage such projects by means of this measure. All these data tell a great deal about the possible positive effects on the economy, while at the same time encouraging such projects can be expected to promote Slovenian tourist pearls abroad. According to the Ministry of Culture, approximately EUR million is expected to be provided for incentives in the following year, which is a very nice figure in terms of the overall trend, the past trend of investment in cultural infrastructure and the current capacity of public finances. However, we want this number to go up in line with the needs of the film industry, because we are confident that, given all the national wealth and knowledge of Slovenian film makers, this will certainly not be enough. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will certainly support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u21	We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 27, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9. 2016, in the context of the votes, after paragraph 24. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the time of the day, this is on the proposal of a recommendation for the provision of an independent and non-consuming operation of the work of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Group of Nineteen Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Culture proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Dr Dragan Matić, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, to further explain the draft decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Culture is at its 13th regular session of 8. 9. Consider the proposal for a recommendation to ensure the independent and impartial functioning of RTV Slovenia, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. In its opening remarks, Mr Anja Bah Žibert submitted a supplementary explanation on behalf of the applicant. As a proposal for an act of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service also examined the legislative and legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. In its opening remarks, their representative said that the National Assembly was competent to monitor developments and situations in particular areas in order to adopt measures under its jurisdiction, while respecting the principle of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power, it should be able to propose to other authorities only those measures falling within their competence, while respecting their constitutional or legal independence and independence. It also made comments on the other points of the proposal. That the Government could not accept the proposed recommendations as such would constitute a grave intervention in the institutional and editorial autonomy of RTV Slovenia, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Damjana Pečnik explained in the introduction. She said that the Republic of Slovenia is in accordance with Article 2 of the RTV Slovenia Act, the founder of a public institution whose duty is to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia and to provide adequate funding for the public service. The position on the item under consideration was also given by the V.D. Director of the Public Institute RTV Slovenija mag. Marko Filli, who explained that in the public institution of RTV Slovenia, they respect the principles of ethics and the wishes of citizens and respond appropriately to their calls and criticisms. Thus they carry out their mission and take care of the public service in accordance with the law. However, the President of the Public Institute of Programmes, Miran Zupanič, felt that the issue of RTV Slovenia in Parliament was important if it was going in the right direction. The basic problem of the functioning of the public institution is seen in the current law on RTV Slovenia, as it is written in such a way that it cannot be implemented. Neither is the institutional autonomy of the RTV Slovenia Programme and Supervisory Board, as many of their members are appointed by the National Assembly. However, in its position, the representative of the Peace Institute of Mags explained that journalism should be independent of politics and that it would be the wrong appointment of the national media council, which would be supervised by the European Commission. Brankica Petkovic. In a short discussion, which took place mainly on the proposed parts of the proposal for a recommendation, a thorough revision of the 2005 RTV Slovenia Act, the provision of the autonomy of the public service of RTV Slovenia, the inappropriate call for people not to pay RTV contributions and the warnings of politicians not to be involved in editorial policy, it was proposed by a member of the Committee that the Committee should, on the basis of the opinions expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government and others invited to the meeting, decide that the proposal for a recommendation should not be considered further. Thus, the Committee on Culture, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decided that the proposal for a recommendation to ensure the independent and impartial functioning of RTV Slovenia was not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Dr. Matic. I give the floor to the representative of the proposal for a recommendation from Mrs Anji Bah Žibert to introduce the position on the proposal of the working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I think I've got 15 minutes. In the event that I do not complete the whole presentation, I will then continue the discussion later. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, citizens and citizens! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have proposed recommendations for the consideration and adoption of the National Assembly to ensure the independent and impartial functioning of RTV Slovenia. Unfortunately, we will not decide on them today because they were rejected as inappropriate and there were no options for debates between Members and Members. Our wish was to help implement legislation and ensure the rights of citizens and citizens who pay public RTV Slovenia. However, we obviously did not know in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with completely innocent recommendations, slip into the nest. Why do I say that? Firstly, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been rejected twice by the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Dr Dragan Matic, to hold a debate on this subject on the Committee. It is unusual that there was no problem months ago; nothing happened when we put forward a similar proposal. At that time, our request to the chairman of the committee, Mr Matić, was not at all controversial. Moreover, in his debate, he even stated that the coalition seemed to be warned by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the spot. In this direction, his party colleagues also discussed. It's all very visible from the magnetogram. But it's something, maybe it's the key. At that time, the programming board was made up differently than it is now; and another person sat in the ministerial chair. Secondly, the contested business manoeuvre has taken away every opportunity to debate even before it even started. Mr Möderndorfer simply assessed that the recommendations were inappropriate for further discussion, and the voting machine carried out its work. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, a report on the Committee's work will even arise where we find the record: After a short discussion, it was decided that the recommendations were not appropriate. After a brief discussion, which was not allowed. It's an unprecedented mockery. Thirdly, TV Slovenia Director Dr Ljerka Bizilj and Radio Slovenia Director Miha Lampret were also invited to the board meeting, which informed them that they would not attend the meeting, as only a professional discussion was acceptable for them. The debate was clearly well known in advance. Responsible to RTV Slovenia to explain the reasons for possible non-implementation of the law and non-compliance with the criteria adopted, they simply whistle at the legislature. We have also received something similar from the Society of Journalists, which in advance, respected, estimates in advance that the debate will be unserious and unscrupulous. In doing so, neither one nor the other were able to state one single argument that would reject our concerns. Otherwise, they also cultivate such a relationship to the RTV Slovenia Programme Council when it wants to discuss respect for law and criteria. In some ways, the case is being carried out in a very similar way to that in the area of justice. Don't talk about them, don't question their work, and there's no one on them. But they demand that our wallets take care of them. Therefore, any misdirection is completely superfluous. The fact is, it is not a problem in our recommendations. To the opponents of the meeting, the problem is how to challenge doubts in a balanced, objective, credible and impartial functioning of public RTV Slovenia, which requires law. The findings of Dr. Mark Milosavljevic, in whom you certainly do not doubt the expertise in the coalition, say everything. It draws attention to violations of existing RTV legislation and statutes, which have been blamed by this management and, in its view, constitute a reason for the termination of the function before the expiry of the term of office to the Director-General, the Director and also to the Director of the Information Programme. In its findings, it highlights the transfer of certain broadcasts to the 3rd programme of Slovenia, although they have nothing to look for there, as it is intended solely for the transfer of meetings of the National Assembly, meetings of other working bodies and meetings of the State Council, in accordance with the RTV Slovenia Act. The violations of the law in this part are also noted by the Council of State, respected, since the works of the Council of State, as required and prescribed by law, are simply not covered. On the other hand, we find broadcasts that do not belong there, we find some comments that do not belong there, and some biased statements. It happens that the meetings of the Committees of the National Assembly are not carried out at all, nor are the recordings being broadcast. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also raised suspicions of a crime against the leaders of RTV Slovenia on 13 April because of the failure to postpone the meeting of the Defence Committee. There was no other meeting within that time limit, but there was no transfer of the meeting. Let me remind you that the meeting was convened with the item on the agenda of the Sum of the Abuse of Justice using the Criminal Code of the former SFRJ with the aim of defusing the Slovenian Liberation War and the then Commander of the 30th Development Group of the Toneto Krković Territorial Defence by distorting the truth in the event of the helicopter being shot down over the Rosna Valley during the war on Slovenia. At this meeting there were also interesting documents about the then Republic Summit with Kučan at the head. The session never played, it was just some censored video in the night program. The RTV Slovenia Act provides that RTV Slovenia must provide reliable and impartial information shows and ensure comprehensive information on political developments. Dearly respected, I quote the law: "The journalists and journalists, editors and editors of RTV Slovenia and others who are directly involved in the creation or preparation of RTV programmes must, in their work, in particular: respect the principle of the truth, impartiality and integrity of information; respect for human personality and dignity; respect for the principle of political balance; the principles of constitutionality and legality; ensure impartial and comprehensive information; and respect the principle of political independence." The Director of RTV Slovenia is obliged to act in the event of an infringement of the legislation. Dearly beloved, we have once been told that we speak all plastic and that no specific cases have been given. I'll say it a little differently today. How can it be that on public RTV Slovenia continues to be an information programme journalist, Eugenia Carl, who has repeatedly violated the above-mentioned principles laid down by law. Let me give you a heads-up. Eugenia Carl in one of her contributions on the basis of an FB-side Slovenian Democratic Party or some of its members simply attributed hate speech, the resurgence of hateful ideologies and the spread of hatred. Where is the principle of reality, integrity and respect for human dignity?Oh, my God! The organisers of the protest meeting in Shenchure, where the nationals, citizens and also from the wider region gathered and then opposed the migrant government policy, in spite of the decisive denial which had been mediated, manipulated what the Slovenian Democratic Party attributed to them; with well-known facts and denials. On the basis of the unverified information provided in the contribution, the same journalist stated that the protestors who opposed the government's migrant policy were paid for their involvement. The news hasn't been verified, the reporter said she couldn't get to the data. Eugenia Carl was also protested by a contribution, where one of the candidates for mayor – and there will be no mistake – is not a candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party – attributed the acquisition of voting votes. Believe me, the damage to this candidate is great and serious. Due to the report of Eugenia Carl, a written protest was sent to members of the RTV Slovenia Council by the University of Primorska. In it, the signed dean wrote that RTV Slovenia is expected to report correctly, which will be in line with professional standards of the journalistic profession. Next, journalist Jelena Ashčić attributed the establishment of her army to the Utr, which is part of serious information shows, the Slovenian Democratic Party and Janez Janša, although she did not have any basis or indication. The reporter just lied. And then what happened? The responsible ones who should act have assigned her the lead of the weeknik show. Let me point out the total imbalance of Studio City, which has already been the subject of several discussions in the programming world; you could have read a lot about this. It was said that things would get better and better; but violations of principles were still constant. Let me remind you of the silent movement of RTV Slovenia with a drawing about Patria, which was presented, respected, in the children's-young programme Infodrom, a diary for young people, among other things: in Slovenia, former Prime Minister Janez Janša was sentenced to two years in prison for receiving bribes, businessman Ivan Črnkovič for 19 months, and Anton Krković for 22 months in prison. Apart from the departure of the drawing from the RTV portal, nothing happened, even though it was already an untruth and also a political indoctrination of children. In RTV — a public house, respected — you can’t just walk in. We've all been on some kind of show before, and you know it's some kind of registration rule. Obviously, you can hang the banner of the death of Janshism without a problem at a session of the programming board. On public RTV Slovenia is also totally peacefully tolerated that in the lift of public RTV Slovenia hangs a sheet which refers to or is some sort of tyrant for Janez Janša, president of the largest opposition party. Of course, there are still many such cases. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna use the debate to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Anton Persak, Minister of Culture, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The Government, pending a proposal to recommend to the Government that it recommend certain measures to RTV management, should define in principle, based on the RTV Act, which commands or legitimises the institutional autonomy and editorial independence of this public service. It therefore considered that such a recommendation by the Government would constitute an intervention in the autonomy of RTV Slovenia, which has the statutory authorities of management, control and management that enable the autonomous performance of the public service; and bodies that provide for an active relationship with the public. This is the guardian of the rights of listeners and viewers or users of the Internet, as well as the creators of the program. Journalists and journalists of RTV Slovenia are committed in their work to respect the legislation and professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics in RTV Slovenia programmes adopted by the Council of RTV Slovenia in 2000. This is a self-regulatory mechanism that is in line with the standards in force in the democratic world and more or less across all countries of Europe. The call of the Government to the management of RTV Slovenia would constitute an intervention in its autonomy; in addition, this could somehow mean that laws in the Republic of Slovenia should only be respected at the specific call of the Government; however, this depends on the will of the people or the institutions concerned by the law. If the area is regulated by law, this means that the law already contains a requirement for law to be respected and that is why the Government's call in this sense is unnecessary, in some ways pointless and contrary to the rule of law. Rights and obligations are regulated by law and not by additional recommendations. Rapid technological changes dictate changes and adaptation of legislation, redefining public interest in public RTV and defining the way public service is carried out. The answers to these questions will, hopefully, be sufficiently addressed by the Media Strategy, which is being prepared and will also address the public service in this area. Finally, it may only be noted once again that RTV also has a number of bodies for individual segments of the programmes, such as the Italian and Hungarian national programmes and so on, specific programming committees that perform this function in accordance with the standards applicable to this area. The area is very sensitive and any policy intervention could also be a very poor certificate for the country in which this would happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Primož Hainz, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister. Colleagues and colleagues! Position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Recommendation to ensure the independent and impartial functioning of RTV Slovenia. According to the proposaler, we are increasingly witnessing contributions that raise doubts about the impartiality and credibility of reporting on RTV Slovenia. Therefore, they tabled a proposal for a recommendation which addresses the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the first three points. Among other things, the National Assembly should recommend to the Government to call on the RTV leadership to ensure consistent implementation of the provisions of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and consistent respect for professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics. However, RTV Slovenia is expected to recommend that it respects the provisions of the law in a consistent manner. In the parliamentary group, we agree with the proponents that television must also provide credible, impartial and comprehensive information on the political developments at home and in place. She's bound by the law. According to the proposalers, the law is not consistently respected and the National Assembly should, directly or indirectly through the Government, recommend to RTV Slovenia that it respects the provisions of the law. Of course, we do not agree with this work that television does not respect it. Dearly noted, we must all act in accordance with the legislation in force, including all those involved in the preparation of national radio programmes. It is absolutely unnecessary and pointless to add an invitation to this by the National Assembly or the Government. In the present law, the definition of the status of RTV Slovenia explicitly highlights institutional autonomy, editorial independence and the duty of the State as founder to establish respect for both. We also find it inappropriate in the parliamentary group to call for respect for the principle of journalistic ethics. Special procedures and decision-making bodies are envisaged for dealing with such infringements. The National Assembly can't say that. The position of the Group is to intervene with the adoption of the recommendation with the law on the autonomy of Radiotelevision Slovenia. The fact is that the law on RTV Slovenia was passed 11 years ago, and in the Desus Group we believe that it needs to be recast. Let me stress once again that it is our duty as legislators to approach the changes of the law, but we do not call for respect for the existing legislation, which we are all obliged to respect, whether we agree with it or not. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to see that the first step forward in the preparation of amendments to the Law on Public Television has already been made; the Strategy for the Development of Media in the Republic of Slovenia by 2024 is at public hearing. We expect that this strategy will provide an agreement on issues that include, inter alia, the future regulation of the public service in the field of radio and television. We believe in the parliamentary group that, on the basis of this strategy, there will also be a revision of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, taking into account proposals and comments from public hearing. In accordance with the above, we will support the decision of the Committee on Culture in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u30	Respected and respected! Public broadcasting is one of the postulates of democratic regulation in developed countries; or if you want otherwise, its position in a social environment is a test of the development of democracy as such. Thanks to the many usurpations of the public service that we have witnessed in the last ten years, Slovenia would not have been able to pass this test easily. Attempts of homing have come regularly from the right political field or, rather, from the Slovenian Democratic Party. It all began with the changes introduced in the operation of RTV Slovenia in 2005. The law legalized political interference with its operation, as many domestic and foreign media professionals were then alerted to, and spoke out loud about the recipe for disaster. This is not a surprise if we know that the ingredients were involved in the National Assembly room, far away from the public light. At that time, RTV Slovenia began a period marked by the appointment of more or less politically committed staff to the institution's programme and supervisory board. However, when the party, the proponents of this point, realized that they would not be able to take control of the work of editors and journalists through their subjects in those bodies, a number of other pressures began. These have first moved on to the institution as such. Let us just remember the decline in the RTV contribution, which has been strongly responded to by the European Broadcasting Network. Or at the hearing with the Supervisory Board, despite warnings by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Faculty of Law on the illegality of discharge; or at the calls of political February for non-payment of RTV contributions and could also be listed. What should be of particular concern to us is the personal attacks on individual journalists and journalists, which have only recently been on the rise. The extremely insulting rhetoric through the use of a vocabulary that is unworthy of this civilisational framework has only one purpose — individuals and individuals acting in the media — to force self-censorship. This is also the case today's general debate, which is not only illegal but can also be considered illegal. Our assessment follows from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which warns that the powers of the National Assembly and the position of RTV Slovenia, the treatment of reporting not only RTV Slovenia, but also other media, and its evaluation do not allow; therefore other legal and more legitimate routes are appropriate. We are therefore convinced in the Group of Social Democrats that the debate on the content proposed by the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party should not come at all. We believe that this is an abuse of the Institute of Recommendation and instrumentalisation of the National Assembly. With cynicism, which comes more to the proposer, I would even say that it is abusing the situation, because as an important participant in a private television station, it accounts with another and, in addition to the political one, it also pursues an economic interest. Therefore, it is more obvious that the proposer of the point in the alleged concern for the independent and impartial operation of RTV Slovenia wants to present this as an independent and biased exercise and thus give it credibility; and send a clear political signal to the employees on it. Employees of Radiotelevision Slovenia are people who are committed to their professional standards, ethics, and are primarily responsible to the public. Their task is not the uncritical intervention of the pyres of these or those political parties, as they might wish for the politicians; they must, too often, separate the grains from the weeds. And the latter have accumulated quite a bit in the client of the proponents over the last period. Probably every weed in the political fields can't be placed in the television prime. Respected and respected! However, what the professional or interested public thinks about such political intervention in a public institution of special cultural and national importance has best shown by non-participation, as recorded in the housing association, quasi-discussion, ideological struggle and the accumulation of political points. Unfortunately, this is the extent of this debate. On the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Culture set out in the Group of Social Democrats, we agree that the recommendation of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u32	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, we will by no means support the recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party regarding the operation of public RTV Slovenia. On the one hand, for what and in what way the Slovenian Democratic Party recommends. On the other hand, because it is just a new episode in attacks and reckonings with journalists and editors, or in general with every media reporting for the shade critically to the Slovenian Democratic Party or to their eternally innocent beloved leader, Janez Janša. Let me remind you of the redundancy of punk journalism, of prostitutes served, of potential terrorists, as well as the call for non-payment of orders and RTV contributions. However, these recommendations raise other important issues. The first one that opens to us is the issue of journalism today. Unfortunately, the whole sphere of journalism has suffered many blows over the past decade and it is difficult to gather any response power at all. A lot of professional autonomy was lost, a lot of solidarity was lost. We have a lot of penetrating journalists who have no guaranteed or basic labour rights, and they are forced into increasingly intensive work, leading to copy-paste journalism; as a result, we read in the media the pianist messages created by political and economic centres of power. However, the impact of capital and policy is certainly direct. One of the most infamous cases of political commerce is certainly the one with the newspaper Dela and Beerware Laško, performed by the very government of Janez Janša. Instead of providing greater autonomy to the public media in the financial sense as well, in order to create conditions that reduce market pressures, in order to actually turn the media into public services, we would like to subject journalism to the extent remaining and further weaken public RTV and reduce its reputation. The SDS is really the most extreme in this, and far from being the only one. The operation of RTV Slovenia must not be uncritically defended, it must be made clear and loud that the so-called Grims Act on RTV opened the door to public RTV politics. RTV has become a political interference ring, even political squabbles, which does not mean there has been no pressure before. And it doesn't mean that without this RTV, we wouldn't have a lot of problems of our own. We cannot simply overlook the uncritical summary of neoliberal institutions and their guidelines. We cannot quietly observe in common sense the uncritical reporting of the activities of the extreme right, its racism and xenophobia; on the other hand, at the meeting against the secret agreements of CETA and TTIP in the centre of Ljubljana, public RTV did not report at all, even though their cameras were at the event. This means that the contribution stopped somewhere, despite the fact that it was a very recent event. However, we can monitor historical revisionism, the embezzlement of historical facts, and the defamation of the national liberation struggles that have been granted as a national right by the Witnesses and others in front of them. The law on RTV Slovenia needs not only a thorough reform, but even a small revolution. Finally, if we stop more precisely at the recommendations themselves, it is rather pointless that the National Assembly, as a legislative body, calls on the Government, is the right executive part of the government, to the public service, which should be autonomous, to comply with the law that requires consistent compliance. It is even more inconceivable that the Slovenian Democratic Party wants an independent national media council to be supervised by the European Commission. Not only is this self-particularly contradictory; it is even worse given what policies they impose on us from Brussels and how much damage, indirectly also on the media as a means of communication, these measures have caused people in Slovenia. On the one hand, the recommendations are ridiculous and, on the other hand, dangerous and harmful; it is therefore quite clear that they do not have the support of the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u34	Dear colleagues and colleagues, chairman, good day! They have always been and the media have been an important factor in shaping our society. Especially today are electronic media. Among them, there is also a special place in our society in the public institution RTV Slovenia, because it covers and mediates in the broadest sense, it should mediate relevant developments and raise citizens by playing content that is not necessarily commercially interesting. New Slovenia has good experience in relations with the media, i.e. with journalists and journalists, rich experience, good experience, really good experience. For we believe that the media and the politicians need each other. And it follows that we simply have to work together for the good of the company, otherwise we block the normal functioning of our community, which is not particularly good for citizens and citizens. But each one of us needs to ask what he has to do with the other and what he can do to improve these relationships. This way, he can get rid of a lot of things. However, it will be difficult for the politicians to direct the work of the media, and that would not be right. We Christian Democrats have also written into the basic programme of the home party that the accessibility of the media and telecommunications and the knowledge and training of citizens and citizens for their use are of great importance for greater efficiency at work, for the development of the economy and for better quality of life. It is therefore necessary to support the education of citizens of all age groups for the use of new media and telecommunications and to promote their development and accessibility in all Slovenian places. On this site we must highlight the words v. d. Director-General of the Public Institute RTV Slovenia mag. Mark Fillija, who explained at the committee meeting, quote: "In the public institution of RTV Slovenia, they respect the principles of ethics and the wishes of citizens and citizens and respond appropriately to their calls and criticisms, carry out their mission and take care of public society in accordance with the law. Employees are not covered by any political environment and work professionally." At the same time, it is interesting, on the other hand, to hear the dissatisfaction of the Ombudsman, Mr Ambrožić, who has repeatedly made public the opposite of what Mr Filli said. He said that "he even feels like he's working in illegality. For there is no time to deal with his reports," he says, "in the sessions of the programming board, his calls are not heard." And that, dear colleagues and colleagues, is certainly not right. And from this point of view, we are not comfortable in Novi Slovenije. Because also in New Slovenia we want the public institution RTV Slovenia as an institution that would be in the service of the truth of citizens and citizens, because it is only in this way that it can carry out its real mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Gardener. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the recommendations proposed by Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot be accepted. With regard to recommendations 1, 2 and 4 – it is said that 1 and 2 the National Assembly should recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to invite the leadership of RTV Slovenia to implement consistently the provisions of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and to respect consistently the professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics; and under 4 that the National Assembly should call on RTV Slovenia to respect the provisions of the law relating to the provision of credible, independent and impartial informational broadcasts – these recommendations constitute a grave of interference with the legal institutional and editorial autonomy of RTV Slovenia. In its opinion on the proposed recommendations, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly stated, inter alia: "The powers of the National Assembly and the position of RTV Slovenia therefore do not allow the examination of the reporting method (any media, not just RTV Slovenia) and its assessment of the reporting." They do not allow; however, the conclusions and recommendations which the National Assembly may adopt in relation to the issue of media autonomy may only be the result of comprehensive and general treatment and targeted at measures which could consolidate such a situation." This is the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. How much the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is worth or is binding on the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, as well as any other opinion, we have seen right from the proposalr's point of view. These opinions may also have been sent to the president by the legislative and legal services. "The powers of the National Assembly and the position of RTV Slovenia do not allow the examination of the reporting method and its evaluation." But here you can talk to names and last names and shows. This seems to us to be a modern centre party, as we say, a grave intervention into the statutory and guaranteed editorial autonomy of RTV Slovenia. And because we believe that the debate will be further heated, as Mrs Bah Žibert has announced, that it will be handled with individual journalists and with individual broadcasts, we stand in the position that this is unacceptable interference in the national assembly. For this reason, for principle reasons, whether left or right, we reject this debate in this temple of democracy. The views of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the Government, point out that the call in recommendations 1 and 2 for the consistent implementation of the provisions of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia in practice would constitute a departure from the rule of law. This could then mean that laws should be respected and implemented only on the basis of a government call or a government recommendation, which is of course a complete nonsense. As stated by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is the government's questionable competence to call on public RTV Slovenia to do anything. The Government has only the power to appoint four of the eleven supervisors to the supervisory councils of RTV and has the duty to provide adequate funding for the public institution. On the other hand, the authorities of RTV Slovenia are not obliged to report to the government. While the Supervisory Board reports annually to the National Assembly, this is not about reporting on the content of the reports and programmes, it is only about providing information on the operation of the institution. However, it is the duty of the State, as has been repeatedly exposed to ensure the autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia. Furthermore, what needs to be highlighted is that RTV Slovenia has in order to achieve the programme autonomy and independence guaranteed in Article 2 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, a legally regulated programme council, and a guardian of the rights of viewers and listeners. These two authorities shall ensure that the autonomy provided by the Radiotelevision of Slovenia is controlled. These two bodies are also a link between the public and the software creators on the radio, television and users of the MMC and teletekst. The views of the RTV authorities on the recommendation of the Slovenian Democratic Party are clear, were announced at a meeting of the Committee on Culture and attached to them at the Modern Centre Party. Marko Filli said at the committee meeting that RTV Slovenia had few cases at the press hearing, and as a media organisation had at least a hearing in judicial proceedings and almost no convicted journalists; from which we can conclude that RTV journalists respect the professional and ethical criteria of their profession. The President of the Programme Board, Mr Zupanič, also felt that the recommendations proposed were not appropriate. The meetings of the Committee on Culture did not wish to be attended by the Director of TV Slovenia and the Director of Radio Slovenia; however, the lady and the gentleman sent a letter clearly showing their position. There they wrote, quote: "Public RTV Slovenia, our journalists and editors cannot be judged and supervised in the way of the recommendations of this or that political party. In this context, we clearly report that we understand this item of the agenda as political pressure on the autonomy of the public service and strongly reject it." With regard to recommendation number 3, this is the establishment of an independent national media council, which should be supervised by the European Commission in order to ensure compliance with European values, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, a number of questions are raised, which the Slovenian Democratic Party, where they remembered, is unlikely to have considered. These questions are: what are the European standards mentioned in the proposal for this Recommendation and where they are written; how should the national media council be independent if it is established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; how should it be supervised by the European Commission; which Commissioner or official of the European Commission should exercise this control over the Slovenian national media council and on what basis; what European values do they have in mind in this way; and what example of the national media council in the countries of the European Union is already established and how it works and would like us to follow it in Slovenia? Although they were asked by the Slovenian Democratic Party to supplement the material already for the meeting of the Committee on Culture, which they themselves requested, this did not happen. If I withdraw, the content of the recommendations is illegal, meaningless and non-executive and therefore the recommendations are not appropriate for further consideration. In this respect, we insist in the Modern Centre Party that we do not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Dr. Matic. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Podurodsk, who will present the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u38	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf too! The fact is that as soon as we understand that the situation in Slovenia is also the responsibility of the public media, this is the institution of RTV, which is more friendly to all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. I must say that the purpose of all these recommendations, which the Slovenian Democratic Party brings to this national assembly, is to discuss these recommendations. To your great surprise, however, you do not understand this in other parliamentary groups and you want to account politically in this area. Let me present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on the proposal for an independent and impartial operation of RTV Slovenia. Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party point out that we are increasingly witnessing contributions which really raise doubts about the impartiality and credibility of reporting public RTV Slovenia and which also indicate a shift or violation of the legislation adopted. In this regard, the question of the implementation of the mission of the public institution RTV Slovenia, which is also a public institution of special cultural and national importance financed by the contributions of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, is becoming increasingly raised. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group also notes with concern that journalists do not adhere to the rules binding on responsibility, accuracy, impartiality, credibility and verification of the fact - to re-check the facts - while respecting the professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics and morals, in particular ensuring this in the information programme of Slovenia. As a public institution of special cultural and national importance, it carries out a public service provided for by the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. This is what many viewers point out, which require public RTV Slovenia to respect laws and professional criteria, especially since the law obliges them to pay RTV contributions. Therefore, users should not be misled. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are convinced that RTV Slovenia should in particular respect its own rules and thus ensure the realization of its mission. As the only public television should be RTV Slovenia the first to ensure democratic standards of journalistic reporting, and should not prevent other media outlets from doing so. In order to ensure the independent and impartial functioning of RTV Slovenia Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the National Assembly, we propose recommendations that are for the benefit of all those who pay the subscription, these are respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Underpants. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Ms Anja Bah Žibert, representative of the proposal's proposal, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much. It seems to me that it is important that I respond immediately to some of the opinions that everyone can have; but it is also right to look at how it is. I think the Minister has said well that we have authorities who are supposed to take care of the so-called implementation and implementation of the legal provisions. We have a control council, we have a programming world. I took a look at the oversight board reports. I also have magnetograms here; if anyone wants to, he can look at them. Some irregularities on RTV Slovenia have been happening for years. If I do not see you as fellow Members and Members of Parliament, but as citizens and citizens, I ask you what will happen if you do not respect the law and are in grave breach of the law. You'll be responsible for that, won't you? You will. What you will do if you are obliged to pay taxes to this country, like other citizens, if you are obliged to pay a compulsory contribution, your opinions will not be heard or will be allowed to break the law forever. Apparently something's wrong. On the other hand, the government has said in its position that it cannot interfere directly and that we therefore have a programming council. We'll talk about the composition a little later. But first, let me just say something, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we first referred this kind of proposal to the parental committee, even after the so-called Second Programme Council, and also today, because we think that this is obviously a toothless tiger. Now I'm gonna tell you why. The responsible editor on TV Slovenia wrote to the programme board when it wanted to discuss the implementation of legislation and criteria that this was pressure on journalists. Interesting, isn't it?Oh, my God! An open letter to the programming board against the editorial board, the board of directors, the Society of Journalists of Slovenia and so on. They also write that the programming board should not deal with software content and ask why it is a publication and others are not. Then tell me, who in the country can ask that?Oh, my God! And now you're telling us that we're grinding something that's not, I don't know, according to some principles. We're not talking in advance, I haven't given any thought to what the future will be like. We're talking about all the things that have happened backwards and are a known fact. They were discussed by the programming board. What political pressure from the Slovenian Democratic Party?Oh, my God! Political pressure is largely the composition of the programming world. Look what she's like; she's supposed to be called professionally. A colleague from the Social Democrats, but these were strong, I'm sorry, but these were strong. First of all, you're reading that everything started to be politicized by the law. And get out of here. Who was the president of the council? You probably know Mr Kocijancič more than I do, but interestingly, there was no contribution to him when some doubts arose about his companies. But it is true that certain criteria have been adopted under his action, and today obviously we must not talk about these criteria in this national assembly, although he has very nicely and accurately said why they are accepted. If it's the law, because you just rushed in there to change it, remember. But the people told you – no, you're wrong. Then constantly paying and inviting some not to pay RTV contributions. And then to you it's just so-called February, one of the politicians, the president of our party. Then he really has the power to have so many organisations, so many signatures are collected today at the expense of abolishing the contribution. If RTV Slovenia were considered to be all right, then probably there would be no such calls. Why don't you read these petitions, read what's going on? If the media says that they can drive their cars to the sea and so on; on the other hand, we talk about the lack of funds all the time, then it is no wonder that people jump into the air and say, "Are we, who are already on the verge of financial and social danger, still obliged to pay for it?Oh, my God! Do your best to make RTV work so that no such calls will be made because people will think that they have what it is meant for and it is true. It is also about creating a balanced space in the field of media, which is intended to contribute to the realization of democracy. Next, the United Left, of course I understand colleague Violeto Tomić, she is an actress, she even works a fifth of a day in the field of film and other creation. She is probably still hoping for some cooperation with RTV Slovenia in the future. I totally understand that. It is not right, however, that on one hand you point out some tweet from the session; I think we have talked a lot there, because of me today, because it was explained why it was created; and that no one, but no one, really dealt with why it was created. It may also have been designed to protect our simple members and electorates; no matter how formidable the writer was. To talk about the Slovenian Democratic Party having its own army, that those who protest pay that we are the organiser and payers of individual meetings. This should be done by some citizens and citizens of public RTV, who have to check any information, swallow, swallow, swallow and live with it. Of course, it's hard on this account, but if you were a little objective all of you in here today, you didn't mention the death of Janshism poster. The call for murder is less important to you than some tweet talking about media prostitution. You know the term, it's been there a long time. There was a talk about the Witnesses that something was happening there, I don’t understand, the Witnesses were some kind of show where individuals told their life story. I don't know why anything would be wrong with it, we have 600 graves in Slovenia, which were during the war and after the war, even today in the grave pits we treat those bones in a very unscrupulous way. I really don't see any pressure here. How much celebration I see on public RTV with the red stars, we are talking about the totalitarian regime; on the other hand, we are saying that we stand for democracy. Even in this national assembly, the temple of democracy, some are allowed to wear symbols of totalitarian regimes, so there are no problems. As far as the Modern Centre Party is concerned, I think Mr Matić went right through some opinions, I agree. The ZPS gave an opinion, you understood it that way, but in some parts I understood that we are also a little too specific, at least as far as the media world is concerned. And then where's that limit we can discuss? I say that in the legislative branch of government we can discuss everything that is in the law. And I have said that we will discuss the implementation of the law and the principles enshrined in it. But here, Mr. Matić, you have done us a great service. You've made one comparison of how it is in other countries. They are independent media councils, they are; and they are in countries that talk much longer about democracy. Of course, we are not in the recommendations because we are talking about the recommendations and not the proposed amendments to the law, we have indicated which of these options would be most appropriate for Slovenia. This could also be a matter of discussion and agreement. But most of all, you cut off the past when you said how this would work within the European Commission and so on. See page 3; as we are in the European Union, the European Parliament emphasises that the European Commission must ensure that Member States in their territory ensure the proper implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is reflected in pluralism of the media, equal access to information and respect for independent print. European Commission; therefore, within the framework of the European Commission. Why in the framework of European values? I think this is the saddest thing to have to explain, but we do think of ourselves as Europeans and Europeans. In short, we're not pushing anything. However, we want the situation on RTV Slovenia to improve. We have a third programme for the transport of all meetings, the State Council repeatedly when there are reports on the table — and there are reports of the Supervisory Board, not of the programme — referring to the disrespect and non-fulfilment of their work being carried forward. And how can it happen that there are simply no individual meetings; there is not, nor in the video?Oh, my God! They're gone. Then we find excuses if you don't have the right cameras in some places. Come on. One day is appropriate, and the other day is quite inappropriate for the transfer of the sitting. I'm guessing we're not all that stupid, but not citizens when they're asking why there's no meeting. It is true that some of the initiatives, including those of Mrs Bachič's colleagues at the time, were to cancel TV Slovenia 3; when they were correcting the law where the citizens told you to – no, we will not. Nor is this because, at least in this way, we see some things as they are in the National Assembly — no comments, no Satirical Eyes, and so on. For this TV Slovenia 3 we do not need this to happen in another program, enki, twins. And on three, we're looking at sports transmissions of formulas. And you're saying that we go beyond, we go through, we go through, and I don't know what else. We're not going anywhere. We're not going anywhere. We listened similarly, I also said that about the Slovenian courts. You can't, you can't talk about judges, even if it's a public service. For public services. We are obliged to talk about this because this public service has the money of taxpayers, and this public service has been having problems in the reports of the Supervisory Board for almost all of the years. And the findings of the programming board, which had to unwrap its suitcases a little while ago, have all the powers of the minister to propose to those who trust them. The Programme Council is also made up of committees to make it a little easier for the public as well. The Commission notes for multimedia content that there is an unacceptable tolerance for errors and failure by management. It calls on management to ensure respect for the law, professional criteria and programming standards. What more do you need?Oh, my God! You said before that we have formal organs, that's the programming world. He found faults, deviations from standards, but nothing happens. Directors stay on their chairs, and the program councilors still get pollen under their feet when they're rude to talk about it. Maybe a little bit more about the new software world, but this body will now work very closed, they will only be able to come to certain meetings of the world, the videos will be visible in a little while; I don't know what's going to happen in there now, that it's going to take such a hiding. But apparently from now on, there will be no more problems and probably no more banners, or we will now see a banner — death to someone else. I'd like to know how you'll react then. You didn't care about those calls. Therefore, everything else, how you defend journalists in your freedom and so on, I very much welcome; but also protect citizens and citizens. Even those who were hurt, one way or another. However, the actions by RTV at the expense of their work are very large on the part of citizens and citizens. Much and nothing political, only that these people have to pay the charges themselves, pay the lawyers themselves, file things themselves; on the other hand, RTV with their money pay lawyers to protect irregularities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bah Gibert. Replica, Dr. Matic, not yet. As far as I can see, you will be able to discuss this further and then you will give your opinion. We continue the debate. Mr Saša Tabakovic is the first to prepare Mrs Marija Bacič and Dr László Göncz. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u42	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your word! That the issue of the media landscape in the Republic of Slovenia has a long gray beard, this is not some special news. I myself understand it in providing working conditions for journalists, as well as in encouraging high-quality working processes for journalists in order to encourage research journalism, instead of a novelty populism, which has deteriorated to the embellishment of opportunities in the Republic of Slovenia. Investigative journalism is on our dog today. It's high, it's almost gone, especially because of past media and politics, and even more so because of the desire of certain political currents to sort or manipulate the media in some way. It manipulates in a way that makes it easier to manipulate the public. If that were not the case, then they would probably not have had an affair in the past involving freemen, which was also dealt with by the Parliamentary Commission in the National Assembly, nor would they have had any regrets or senseless twitling of the leader of the opposition or the most visible leader of the opposition, nor would they have had an appeal to not pay the RTV contribution. I may partly agree that a person is sometimes dissatisfied, as colleague Bah Žibert has already said, but it seems to me that this simply cannot be an excuse for some illegal activity. I also cannot agree that it totally matters whether he calls for disobedience, for example, an association, or for disobedience, or for a gentleman with a very long political kilometre; especially because he has enjoyed almost all the functions in the country, with the exception of the President of the Republic. I do not think that things between a civil initiative and such a political February simply cannot be comparable, and I cannot agree with that. If I move away from a political discourse and focus on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we can see that the recommendation calls on the government to have illegal interference with national RTV. In the first point of the recommendation, the Group of Members requested the Government in general to call on RTV to implement the provisions of the law in a consistent manner, although it was not provided in detail in the material, which articles of the law are not implemented or which legislation is not consistently respected. The fact that a certain relationship is regulated by law simply imposes an obligation on the addressee, a duty of certain conduct. If they take the recommendation literally within the meaning of this point, this could, otherwise very absurdly, mean that laws must be respected and implemented on the basis of a government call or a government recommendation. That's absolutely absurd. However, I know that many of the Slovenian Democratic Party and also of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group have given up on the judicial branch of power, as has been shown in the past, even at yesterday's plenary session of the National Assembly; but I must say that I believe in the State of Slovenia's legal protocol. I simply believe that the courts are those who judge to what extent legislation is respected in implementation, and then that possible failure to enforce the court is also appropriate to sanction it. I stress that we have courts, so we have some legal protocol; and of course this cannot be politics. I must say that I am a little surprised that the party that has democracy on behalf, however, let us be precise, interestingly partial to the Slovenian media landscape, because it does not respond to all the cases that I have already listed. At the same time, we cannot defend and argue in any way on the basis of the various political Februarys, as I would call them. The law is as it is; and it seems to me that we are all equal before the law, and it is right that we all have the same respect for it. The RTV Act makes it very clear that it is the duty of the founder to provide adequate funding for the public service and also to ensure institutional autonomy and editorial independence of RTV. Therefore, the RTV Act makes very clear the verticals of the RTV supervisory authorities, the Programme Council takes care of programme policy, and the programme policy must represent the public as much as possible. We also have a guardian of the rights of viewers and audiences of RTV, which also points to this interest. Then we have the Director-General, who runs the professional and business RTV Slovenia, and the Supervisory Board. However, as in other institutions, the RTV Supervisory Board protects in particular the interests of economic activity. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the exception of the powers to appoint four of the eleven members of the Supervisory Board and also the powers to amend the amount of RTV contribution for a maximum of 10 % on a variety of economic grounds, has no other legal options or mechanisms to influence the functioning of RTV. It just doesn't. Also, RTV Slovenia does not have any legal obligations to report to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It may report on its work exclusively and only to the National Assembly, and only for business and not editorial policy. And, of course, I absolutely agree with this because I do not know where we are coming from, so that some branch of authority will start directly interfering with editorial policy. I'm still a little bit different from democracy. Of course, we can talk about a lot of things, but it seems to me that we need to know where there are some frameworks for dialogue and where the powers of certain institutions are laid down, such as the National Assembly. Because if it doesn't, then we're going to have a very quick dialogue that can be very nuanced. I don't agree with the way I operate, as has been said so many times before, like the functioning of the street. All together, if politics were to interfere with editorial policy, it would smell like other times that we have, I hope, grown long ago. When dealing with possible infringements of professional and ethical rules, it is right to deal with them; but that is why we have a specific protocol again. We have honorable judgments, we also have the right to correction in the law, we have the final stage of the action where those who feel they have violated their rights can also complain, judge or go to court and so forth. We must respect this protocol and it seems to me that it is not right for politics to somehow interfere with this protocol. I also personally believe that the recommendation we have is certainly not the right way to address the issues that are, I agree, to a certain extent correct. At least here, I can personally agree with the 3rd point or initiatives for an independent national media broadcast to be supervised by the European Union. However, I do not think that the recommendation makes it clear in what legal sense this might look like. As has already been said to the position, as already commented colleague Bah Žibert, I think this is a very delicate issue for our legal system. It seems to me that a somewhat broader debate is needed, including an expert debate. In general, I am opposed to such an approach. It is true that a media review has taken place, called the 2013 media freedom, which mentions this possibility of setting up a media audience. But if we are to look very closely here, if we are to read these resolutions talking about plurality and media freedom, we simply need to be aware that they are not legally binding and that the arrangements we have here also reflect in a comparable way on the rules of the Member States of the European Union. This also means that the Statute of RTV is very comparable to other Member States of the European Union. But there's something else I need to say, which I'm also a little bit concerned with, this constant need for control. Two years ago, we barely got rid of threes, so the ratings are improving, the economy is improving. We have barely gotten rid of this control, we already feel some need to still need some control, even though it is the European Union's control of the media. I think we need to be a little more confident than the nation and appreciate our own, as I would call it, state-building and, at the end of the day, sovereignty. The recommendation that we are considering today, in my opinion, would be difficult to judge on my own that the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group is a well-intentioned regulation of the media landscape. If that were true, I think today we should primarily talk about where research journalism has disappeared, where it is, when a story or a documentary is a little bit exposed; then there are very strong criticisms and also, under the terms, some political persecution. What happens to self-employed journalists, and why is they increasingly being forced into especies? I think these are the questions the National Assembly should address. If I am wrong, I think not, but if I am wrong, it will certainly show the time and political development of this National Assembly in the autumn when we consider the proposals of the Ministry of Culture, which will touch on regulating the image of Slovenian media. Until then, unfortunately, I simply cannot support the intentions of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, as it is being addressed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Tabakovic. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I must say that Mr Tabakovic's debate was very interesting in one part. At the beginning, he told us that we are only dealing with RTV Slovenia, and on the other hand, he mentioned that we are not acting as a media landscape as a whole. I think that this media outlet is the other part that we could talk about the media space in Slovenia, how it is implemented. But it is true, and I have also said this, that there is still a need for this to be discussed, which is why this is a recommendation. We didn't set up to imitate this country, put it in here, and so it is. Regarding oversight, where he has his concerns, which are to some extent also on the spot; yet, on the other hand, if a person has a clean conscience, he has no control problems. Of course, this control must be clearly established; it must be known who controls it. With us in Slovenia and in the previous system, we had very serious problems with our controls, but if this control is very clear and helps to satisfy citizens and citizens, even in implementing legislation and improving the situation, I do not see any fears here. Even in the financial field, we are witnessing surveillance, and perhaps it is only in some way helping to keep debt, debt and everything else from going up in the sky. The biggest observation or what you are always trying to put today's debate aside is that it is inappropriate, that it is even unnecessary to go too far, you are relying on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. I haven't heard from you – for two years now, someone said it was the second half – that you as a coalition would be so much involved in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Because if they did, they would not have taken away the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Then we would not have adopted quite a few laws, since it was clearly written that they had been set up in contravention of legislation, even with the Constitution and some others. Find something else, because with recommendations as such we have not intervened in the concrete implementation of the law, but we have said that we have doubts about the implementation of the principles. We would like to explain why this is happening when it comes to it and how everything is being done to make sure that the legislation and the criteria that have been adopted, by the way, are being fulfilled when the light was led by the former SD President. Another issue that I find important here and highlighted by Mr Tabakovic was that I would like to discuss some other issues about RTV, such as: why we do not have quality documentary films, some other shows, what is with the press work, by paying for this. I have pointed out at the beginning of the reports of the Supervisory Board when some things repeat from year to year and nothing changes. Obviously, those who should claim responsibility from those who are responsible do not do so and do so indefinitely. It is true, however, that a Member, who even comes from a coalition, does not have a problem proposing a point or a proposal to convene a meeting of the Committee on Culture and to hold such a debate. I always say hello to her, I think, if we're talking about this, it's very welcome. It was also mentioned that we could be dissatisfied with something. No, it is not dissatisfaction; it is respect for principles, principles of credibility, reality. The principle that things be checked that someone doesn't write what he thinks, and then nobody's even responsible for it. I don't think that's how it works, that when we say anything, we need to know what we're talking about. We know what happens if you give some wrong information. This is kind of a public service. Here with us is the Secretary-General, who will probably be personally responsible for his work if he does something wrong. I don't know if he'll even be able to sit on a chair tomorrow, or if he'll have to answer criminally, financially, and so on. And there's no untouchable public servants, it can't be that. And that's what we need to talk about. However, not to be said, as I said before, that we are saying something in mind, I have highlighted a concrete case from different sides; it was not just the Slovenian Democratic Party; it was also others. Someone's allowed that, and I'm just asking why. Because the criteria and the law must apply to all employees. Here I agree, everyone must be treated equally. Not to say I'm operating on specific names again, but I'm saying it's happening. Statistics, the timeline would probably show something else if you could get to it, how many minutes do you spend on something? Or statistics on participation in individual broadcasts, for example, where professional commentators are invited. Come on, make sure everyone turns them into some kind of political space. Let's look at the balance here, and again, I'm not saying concretely that no one will tell me that I'm going beyond anything. And once again, we also discussed this in the Slovenian Democratic Party when there was another programming light, and we also called the meeting on this subject, so we have no problem. But something must be wrong. Apparently, we're the only ones who've been alerted to that. Last time, colleague Jani Möderndorfer made an interesting statement on the committee – if you don't like it, each party can set up their own media and publish whatever they want. Yes, let him establish it, each one of his own. It is not fair, however, that the national media is under the claws of a precise political definition. That's the problem. Let's leave him alone, and there probably won't be any such discussions. So create your own medium.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Prepare Dr. László Göncz and Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague! Members of Parliament have different opinions, which is nothing wrong; this can, as they say, result in a good product when the opinions are broken. Let me go to the mother we're dealing with today. The proposer calls for respect for the law written by her Member as the product of the largest political usurpation of the autonomy of the public service. I'm not gonna say the name. The gentleman just sat down. In doing so, it does not serve with arguments as to how the law should be broken, which is also pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, but only proposes flat-rate political assessments. It is unusual for the Slovenian Democratic Party to call for something that is self-evident – to respect legislation. Perhaps, in this particular case, the law for the Slovenian Democratic Party is not self-evident. Let us just remember your President's call for civil disobedience, i.e. non-compliance with the RTV law on payment of mandatory RTV contributions. Since the laws are adopted by the National Assembly in order to respect each other, they cannot be interpreted as illegal pressure; if we carefully read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, even illegal pressure on journalists and editors of RTV. The Society of Journalists also considers that such a discussion does not belong to the National Assembly. They believe that it is an attempt to have a political impact on public RTV Slovenia and also constitutes a threat to the impartiality of reporting. In this they see an attempt at absurd political intervention aimed at putting pressure on public broadcasters. Journalists and editors of Radiotelevision Slovenia are people who are committed to their professional standards, ethics; of course, they are responsible to the public first. Their task is not the uncritical intervention of the pyres of these or those political parties, which may sometimes be desirable in politics. The reference to so-called standards and intentions under some kind of control of the European Commission sounds like a bad joke in the context. A party which does not respect the democratic principles of the media in the field of media, a party which, with its press escapades, completely denies the European Parliament Resolution of 21 May 2013 on the Charter of the European Union: setting standards for freedom of the media in the European Union, pays particular attention to the challenges and pressures posed by unacceptable political and financial impacts and the economic crisis and concerns editorial independence, staff employment, precarious employment, self-censorship, neutrality and quality of information and access and financing. It is therefore incumbent on RTV to protect journalists and editors from pressures, attacks and prosecutions due to their journalistic work. There is no way that the Social Democrats can support this recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert, representative of the proposer, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u48	Indeed, the Slovenian Democratic Party does not respect individual laws or commitments of the European Union. Come on. Have you confirmed the resolution on totalitarianism?Oh, my God! Get out of here! And then here you're talking about independent media. Who's sitting in the programming world today? Your member, the Women's Committee. I'm asking you nicely, you know, it's a hoax! I like to discuss it, too, and I enjoy it. But I feel like there's more to it, and I didn't want to talk about individuals, but that's the way it is. Today, at the head of the program board, someone who has publicly said that not only must a political option not repeat a class, but it must no longer be! Let's read his statements. Will they care for a balanced media space in Slovenia?Oh, my God! I don't know. But I don't have any problems. As it is said, even in the previous composition, where you always liked to include the President in our so-called space, we called a similar meeting and said that irregularities were going on. What pressure on the press? They can do whatever they want, but nothing happens to them. Yeah, but I know some pressure. I'll give you a case. The editor of the information program wanted to take a journalist, who is a municipal councilman, to work. And when they stayed within the system and said that this was not the case because it was a political person; she said that we were no longer in totalitarianism, that you would say that. On the other hand, someone who has legendaryly led a children's show for a long time because he gave his voice, says he is neither visible nor his name, took part in a referendum campaign, otherwise for a non-political party, the next day was on the road. That's compliance with the criteria? That's respect for the laws? I don't think so. Ethics and morality. Do you know when we'll be ethical and moral in the media field? When she makes a mistake, our Member of Parliament. Our Member, for example, when we talk about political balance, and they will not wait 14 days at the door for what happened to her 20 years ago, they called her 24 hours a day, they interfered with her private life for so long that she left the post. On the other hand, we have in here, ladies and gentlemen, ambassadors who are known to have broken the law in her previous work; but there are none of these. All quiet, we don't even know how the story ended. And you, a socially sensitive party, were about not paying social contributions, you know, and even in the coalition, you don't have a problem being. I don't have double criteria. Let's be honest, let's be fair, our wish was like this, you can refer to the Legal and Legal Service, but then always. And now raise all your hands and say - disaster, we have been against the Legislative and Legal Service, we have taken the mandate of colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prevented the work of their parliamentary group and one of the Members; at least we are ashamed if we do not accept the responsibility already.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Anita Koleš should be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Gonch.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I will start by saying that we probably cannot deny that we are discussing the issue of RTV because it is a public medium where such a debate is justified or a debate in general. However, the second question is whether the recommendations are made in such a way that they are acceptable for all or only for part of the National Assembly, and that is then a matter of political decision. It would be naive to expect that, given the influence of RTV Slovenia, politics could ever be indifferent here. As has been pointed out several times already today, this is a very important area in the entire socialisation of society from the point of view of information from RTV. And here, of course, interests are very strong. I take this kind of debate and, in general, the debate on the organisation of the content of a public institution as something normal. Of course, there is another thing about our debates as Members or politicians in this temple of democracy. I'm leaning here, and I'm advocating for substantive diversity, but at the same time for tolerance, because there should be absolutely no generators of those problems that then make our society even more dismembered or otherwise turbulent. So from this point of view, I believe we have a responsibility to speak our own words. As far as very professional matters mentioned were concerned, they were also partly mentioned in the material. I believe that I would not waste a word here, I would mention only what was mentioned on the working body, that the Government or the programming council support that a step forward is being taken in the area of the organisation of the programming board and the supervisory board, and that a step is being taken in the right direction to ensure, to the greatest extent possible, at least the formal independence of the software policy of RTV. I have to agree on this and I will support all such initiatives. Otherwise, we don't know them yet. We hope they'll actually go this way. That's why I don't touch myself, I don't purposely touch objectivity as such, because objectivity in the media is a very complicated matter. We all know, in sports we can choose exactly how fast someone is, who's skipped. With the objectivity of the media, this issue is much more complex and therefore to go into it, it is a very risky move, so I would not like to do it at all. But if we are already talking about public media, then I would certainly mention in terms of programme policy that this should not in any way run into some competitive moves with commercial media. I am not saying that she did this, but this should not be a guide at all, nor should it be just a promotion or a push for something in relation to another. Finally, let me mention just two things. I am very personal and will not ideologically define that unfortunately some methodological stereotypes from a period when there was one and only medium in a previous system, have become a bit drawn to today, so we haven't yet yet or failed to abandon these stereotypes. That's my personal opinion. With a concrete example, I can illustrate this with one sentence so that, for example, in reporting from some European countries, very stereotyped interpretations are very stereotyped, but let me also mention on the other hand our narrower area, i.e. the national area. We have two media within this system, Hungarian radio and Hungarian TV. In doing so, I must sincerely stress that we have never observed any influence or any pressure, and I can confirm that in this case we are really talking about autonomy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you, Dr. Gonch. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Ms Anita Koleša and Mr Primož Hainz be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Well, when we talk about public media, it must probably be made very clear that it is very important how much this medium can remain independent. It is precisely from whether, indeed, the source of funding, independent of policy, from what is happening in the budget and so on, and if we touch on the RTV contribution paid by people on the basis of their electricity connection, that is one of the resources that is very important for ensuring the functioning of the public media. In the history of the public media, we have experienced that it was the proposal of the applicant to reduce the RTV contribution. For what purpose? Or to allow him this autonomy, independence or to limit himself and try to bring him into a situation where he will have to apply for additional funds from the budget or even transform himself into a part of a commercial medium which is then dependent on the interests of the spheres of interest that have the money and make it available to you if you then respond to their interests. So I think it is very clear that the applicants within their activities in the Slovenian space have made a very grave intervention into the public media just by trying to reduce and reduce this contribution. However, I must say that I am really pleased when we talk to journalists in Parliament, especially journalists who are professionally covering specific areas, usually these journalists really have a lot of information, they are very good acquaintances of each area, and it is always a pleasure to have a dialogue and exchange views with such journalists. And to the greatest extent, this can be guaranteed by journalists who are in the service of the public media. The commercial medium has completely different interests and wants to create as much inflow on the market as possible. So this interest is significantly different when we talk to the press. The fact that we are trying to talk again today or we are talking because the demand is made by the motioners of the day, that even through the National Assembly there is an attempt to influence the work of the public media, is just another new experiment that is in the line of action of the applicants. I described one earlier – through a contribution or a reduction in the contribution, the other is that today in Parliament we are talking about what we think about the media. Any political party would like to have as much influence on the public media as possible, this is probably no secret. However, the fact is that the law passed in 2005 and because only Mr Grims is here today on the opposite side, which is also the author of this law, is very clearly stated that the Programme Council is composed of members made up of the majority of the National Assembly, i.e. 21 out of 29, i.e. 72% of these members are appointed by the National Assembly. And here's this starting point, which probably would have to be cleaned up, how and what happened to this very composition of the programming world, when power changes, when most change, and so on. And I think that if this analysis shows that this law is actually responding in a way that allows the current authorities to influence how the programming scheme is being developed, then the law needs to be amended. In fact, I am interested in whether the proposer is willing to amend the law at this very point because he was one of the authors of this event. However, once again, I think it is necessary to provide all the conditions with independent resources for the public media and, of course, to establish an appropriate mechanism for monitoring the use of these funds. Here we can have an important influence as the National Assembly to see whether these funds are actually being used with all the rules or not, in some report that we can get, even though the law also has all the institutions that supervise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Kolesh has the floor to prepare for Mr Primož Hainz and Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry of Culture! I hope that I can have my opinion that today's session is largely intended for some political pressure on our public radio and television house. I don't think it makes sense for us to move around here now and turn our words around. The National Assembly, the fact is that it has no right to judge whether a journalist’s work is biased or impartial, independent or dependent. Such and similar actions by political parties help journalists or editors to grasp their hearts and ask whether they need to or should not report on a policy in one way or another. It's probably not like he's thinking with that heart, because then he's going to put me on a pranger or some other pressure to mark my journalistic work. Interestingly, the applicants say that the reporting of a radio and television house indicates a departure or a violation of the legislation or rules adopted. We have already stressed here, and I think that it is necessary to say again, despite the fact that it should be different here, but the fact is that if someone breaks the law, even though it is a journalist, there is a good idea of what happens to them, and even if they break the rules, they know what follows. We talked about the competent authorities, and therefore I think that it is completely meaningless here that we are moving around and that we are talking about how the National Assembly is responsible for this. The applicant is very concerned about reporting RTV, but we do not really know who assessed the reporting as impartial and credible. It was said, though, that some of the pressures within the programming world were not carried out, etc., but whether it is now the State Assembly to talk about it. I don't know. I don't think so. Then how to report this creation consistency in the implementation of the radiotelevision law. We don't even know how media autonomy is threatened. Well, even if we ignore this in some way for my notions of a more unreasonable demand for consistent compliance with the law and other rules relating to radio and television, or our national media house, it might be a bit of a stop to the proposalr's wish that the debate in the National Assembly should mean that I can quote, "helping to ensure the rights of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, RTV payers, when there is non-punitiveness, impartiality, misleading and non-action in such acts which are contrary to the law or acts". I'd say it's just an absurdity of this request. Perhaps from one point of view – "ensure the rights of citizens when it comes to non-pluriality" – I may be able to borrow here one part of the thinking of the President of the Programme Council, Mr Miran Zupanic, who reminded us that the question of plurality is, in fact, an issue if we are able to recognize each other that we are different, that we also have different values, that we respect this diversity. In plurality, inability to acknowledge to one another that we are different, that we have different values, that we also have different world-specific definitions, that is, that is, that is, this non-pluriality, which is somehow referred to here by the proposer. The SDS suggests that someone who is likely to lead RTV Slovenia must act when there is non-pluriality. This means that the RTV leadership should act against those who are unable to recognise the plurality of society or otherwise who are unable to understand that the only truth is not only my truth. Do you remember how this debate began with the proponent? She said it was the right thing to say, but it's the right thing to say how it is. This, of course, is also a question because we are talking about our national television and radio house, which must be some kind of generator of the minimum social consensus of our mutual communication. And that is probably why this issue of plurality is very important. In view of the fact that the President of this Programme Council has mentioned some other proposals, which our Parliament is responsible for, or are political considerations, I think that the meeting of the Committee on Culture has not been in vain, especially if we add to this the warning that Mrs Petkovic has given us or has placed on our hearts. In fact, where media efforts are being carried out in some countries, the proposaler is so fond of the Visegraj Group. We know where their media is today. I listened to one of the Polish women who mentioned that their elections were actually driven or directed by the yellow media. This is, of course, one very sad conclusion. And I think we need to be very afraid of these media routes that we might want to intrude on today with these views. I would also like to say that since we have been monitoring and reporting information programmes, because we are here talking mainly about an information programme, somehow more than anything else, let's say, the absence of good news. I think that maybe in this case I could add a comment myself, but of course it never occurred to me to take the right to tell journalists or editors how their autonomy is limited by my view of press freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Kolesh. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Anji Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll start where my colleague ended up. Restraint of autonomy. Is the limitation of autonomy a call to respect principles such as legality, credibility, data verification, objectivity? Is that autonomy? That's not autonomy. Autonomy is something else entirely. We have no problem with autonomy. We have problems implementing the principles and the law. And you know, in every case we just trigger, there's an immediate talk about the pressure on autonomy. We're talking about things that have already happened back there. And they were also discussed by the programming world, so something has to be on it. Now, once you believe in the software world, once you don't believe it. Just for comparison, because this was exposed and was also dealt with, Mrs Jelena Asic, when she spoke of the fact that the SDS had its army, without foundation, without indicia, was given a reminder. And since it is a public service, respectable, I ask you to put all the acts of law in front of any other sanctions to warn, but only a reminder and then end the story with that thing. You don't pay RTV, you get a reminder, but that's it, because the story doesn't go on. But you get the show, you're making progress. It's not autonomy, you know. This colleague, I don't think she got a warning at all, but it was even said that she could say it a little differently and that it was an author's show – please, in author's shows you can publish a free little unverified and untrue information and this is the end of the story. He's reminding me that I'm going to fix the case, that someone else who ran the radio show, I think that Studio is at 5:00, where someone is, and not just someone, but the president of the Constitutional Court got up in the middle of the show and went, didn't come up with a word. Come on, come on, we're not just talking about SDS issues here, we're talking about RTV issues. I agree, we are not called here to say now what sanctions must be, it is a matter of responsible editors and, finally, it is also a matter of directors, but they do not act. If we have a public institution and irregularities will be committed there, we should not interfere in the future because they have a director, a supervisory board, etc., even though everyone in the taxpayer's wallets. Because we are not competent to point out that the law is not being enforced. There's also a couple of double criteria. Your debate, when there was really another programming world, was, before you said something, here is a magnetogram, "that we may come up with some results that will or will not be possible for these illegalities, and that maybe we can fix something else that will really TV Slovenia direct us to implement such a parliamentary programme." You find illegality, Your Honor, but today it is no longer a problem for you. It's true, let's be honest, let's be constructive, and let's say all the salaries, and so will I. I also thank you for Mr Weber's debate, which has, in fact, raised the question of whether we are in favour of amending the law on the composition of the Programme Council, because it is obvious that this matter is not right. No, it's all right. There shouldn't be any trouble here. See what it says: “Members of the Programme Council must do their work independently and impartially and are obliged to pursue only the interests of RTV Slovenia as public broadcasters. In the performance of their duties, they are obliged to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the provisions of this Act and to ensure that the principles laid down in Article 4 of this Law and the Statute of Work relating to Programmes and Their Creation are implemented." And when the program board wanted to talk about these principles, they got the same letters that we got: Responsible editors – not that, but you won't talk about it; Society of Journalists – that's not what we're talking about. Yes, what are we going to do now, sir? Probably those who are completely satisfied with this state of affairs, no matter what the law says, nothing. And we will fight to the last, that laws in this country are respected and applied to all, both for journalists and public servants, both for those who bear responsible functions and are exposed to the public with their salaries, both with their work and with them can be recorded whatever they want. However, he said something interesting at this meeting of the Committee, which was interrupted in order not to discuss, which was not the business trick itself, but, in my opinion, introduces some new criteria that we will be able to convene a meeting, propose recommendations, in the introduction, the speaker will tell his own, then raise his hands with the first Member and not with arguments, but with the power to assess that the recommendations are not appropriate and we will say good-bye. So we once changed this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as regards the work of the National Assembly in plenary sessions precisely to limit time, because time is enough on committees. We will not be able to speak after the new one, for this allowed us to introduce a new practice in the National Assembly. Maybe this is an interesting topic for the Legal and Legal Service as well. So what did the president say at this session of the programming board? Well, if we have any worm apples, we can't cut the tree. Indeed, many journalists, even on RTV Slovenia, are more than working, more than capable, preparing good things, but, you know, he said something else, we put this apple in the grove, like all the other apples, because those who are more likely to live with agriculture and to save things, you know, that one rotten apple causes a quick wormness to everyone else. True, though — why should someone do something different if something else is allowed? What happens to such things quickly is motive. Why would a journalist stick to the principles if someone doesn't have to? Of course, it is not that simple because, as I said, some fly on the road the next day, and some are rewarded for their actions, which are also not in accordance with the law. And it's not some of our opinions, it's that something was actually wrong because the programming world was discussing it. Now tell me, who was politicizing? A program world that has pointed out a number of issues that have also taken place as far as complaints are concerned, or those that have been able to escape the inscription Death of Janshism in public TV! And nothing happens. In public areas of public RTV Slovenia, calls for murder are obviously completely autonomous. It's also completely autonomous that in the elevator, I don't know how much time, a month or two, a ticket, a warrant for politics, and he's running, well, back to Janez Janša. But you're dealing with why he's calling for a non-payment of RTV contributions today. Let's deal with not being invited by politicians or by organisations – let's take a look, there are many, there are different arguments for this – they won't be necessary. There's always gonna be something wrong. We all know that. But it's going too far, and that's why such meetings are necessary. Don't be afraid of them! You'll still have enough space in the media, but don't be afraid of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Get ready, mags. Branko Grims and Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will not repeat what I have said in the position of the Group of Members, where we have spoken against this debate on the subject as proposed, because it in itself means some kind of political pressure. I would like to say, however, that Radiotelevision Slovenia, a national, is not just a political institution, we are talking today only about politics, in the gravest sense of the word. This is our largest cultural institution, and you would be reminded of this dimension in this debate, if anyone else turns to it, that we will not lose the red nor, in fact, what this is all about, for television, would not be the initiators of this debate. Unfortunately, I have to go into politics myself because there has been a lot of talk about this. I must say that this law, as it is, allows for certain politicization of RTV, they called it Grims's law or Mr Mag. Branko Grimes bragged himself that it was his law. But I have to say here, too, it can't be magic. Branko Grims is to blame, politics is always done by people, one way or another. There's no law that can't be politicized. The fact is, television can't actually be better than society around it, and it's a mirror image. Of course, I will never forget – or I said this once a year or a few months ago – when Dr. Kreso Petrovič, a doctor of sociology at high school, the Faculty of Sports, asked him what sport was like, said: “Sport is like people”. And it's exactly the same for television, it can't be better and it can't be worse, we need to find some balance within it. As far as the press is concerned, I have a few comments when I watch television. At night, I look at some round table or echoes, say, and you know what hurts me the most – not the political position, it doesn't bother me at all, because everyone has them, and the journalist also has political opinions, but when the journalist says that, that's what I should say, but only myself, because he says two words more, and he stops it and says, "We don't have time." This bothers me — the talker does not get the chance to say the sentence to the end. And that really bothers me, more than any of this journalist's politicization. Because if a journalist is politicized, I just have an opinion about him, I think about my own. But what bothers me is that if he has a reputable interlocutor — and the interlocutors are usually very good — he does not leave the sentence to the end. And that's, I have to say, one of my regulars, I'm going to say, a little bit nervous when I see it sometimes, how it works, it's only looking at an hour, and then a lot of times the content is a little bit forgotten. As for the balance that colleague Anja Bah Žibert is talking about, not just her. In fact, balance is something that I think is difficult. The journalist should have his opinion, and I have no problem with it, but this balance always reminds me of the so - called timeline that was also mentioned. You know, I remember when we were slowly dropping drops on the Church's national television, and the Archbishop got the word, say, congratulations, or Joze Smole Christmas and so on, you know what the other day the phones were singing. The archbishop had several words, he had three and a half minutes, while that CK member spoke for only two minutes. This is a time book, a completely distorted story that we know from the near past, and I think today we hardly need to repeat it in such a grave form. As for the defence committee mentioned above, on 13 April, I must say here that I agree with those of you who mentioned this or mentioned it. The fact is that this broadcast was not broadcast, the fact is that Dr. Ljerka Bizilj, the director of the show, promised us that we would get a report on what happened, why it wasn't recorded or why it wasn't broadcast, and we didn't get it for a while. Of course, that's what television owes us. I think it would be nice, even if we say, a mistake, anyway, I don't know, but say so. However, otherwise, if it was not a mistake, then I must say that the arguments around that shot-down Slovenian pilot who was shot down because of the case of war in Slovenia, but on the side were unfavourable to the right, and that is why there may also be a reason why the matter is not being broadcast. I'm just guessing because I don't know because we don't have the reports yet, but the arguments that were put out there at night, at two o'clock, were very interesting. What else bothers me on TV when we're talking about this, and I'm not talking about politics, but of course it's advertising. I said that once before, I think, at a board meeting. In fact, when I turn on the TV for the evening or the evening, or between the diary, advertising. Of course, I am one of those who claims that national television has to be paid, that it has to have fixed so much and so much money, so there are also some kinds of public servants on TV, but when they compete with commercial broadcasts, that really bothers me. In the middle of the movie, in the middle of a commercial movie, in 20 minutes of commercials. And I have to say, it bothers me. But I'm saying it obviously has nothing to do with politics. Finally, of course, if you allow me to end with just this thought that I started with, national television is a cultural institution with many areas that it covers, from children's programs, music programs, classical programs, culture, that is, broadcasts that I think are very on the level. I think that if I mention culture, we could also culturally lead to our largest institution. As for once again, to say directly, I am absolutely against the chase, against the fact that television does not receive a regular contribution to be able to carry out its great cultural activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, as representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u60	Yes, I have to agree with some of Mr Hainz's opinions, but today it is foolish for me to talk about what we agree on, because we have clearly different opinions on those main issues. He said it was a cultural institution. I absolutely agree, so I was very surprised to hear from the researcher of the so-called half past and so-called widowers and SDVs, how much of this is on our RTV Slovenia. So I hope it's not culture. He also said Mr Hainz – he is now Vice-President of the National Assembly – and this is worrying that developments on public Radio Television are a reflection of society around him. So the call for execution is a reflection of the situation in our society. Then we really have to think hard together about what we're doing and take responsibility, because if that's what you think it is, then it's no wonder that hospital killings happen, because obviously it's acceptable for someone in public RTV because they do it, and that's a reflection of society. I don't agree with that and I don't agree with it that way. In short, as far as the timeline is concerned, I absolutely agree, however, because you have tried very finely to avoid the session on the so-called shooting down of a helicopter even to turn to the fact that the non-show was in favour of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I tell you again, you may not have heard before, we have raised suspicion of a criminal offence against those responsible for RTV Slovenia for this. We've filed a suspicion of a crime. And I don't think it was a problem for me to have a right, but some documents were presented that are not very pleasant for Mr Kučan, who didn't come to the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u62	Yeah, everybody have a good day! I've been mentioned so many times today to thank everyone for thinking so much of me. As far as marriage is concerned, I certainly don't own all the articles, so there won't be a misunderstanding. That part of the financing was put in by the minister himself in agreement with RTV Slovenia, I was against it at the time, if you want to know it, but they did not want to listen to me, so that it certainly is not my part, but we have taken into account all the comments then, be careful of all the comments made by the international associations of journalists and RTV houses, the public representatives of which were at the time on the visit to Slovenia, and have only communicated these specific comments. We've taken everything into account in the marriage. So much so that in this work the law was supplemented. But the basis is that I did it, but you won't believe that when you all mentioned it, you forgot to add something else. If this law had been confirmed twice in a referendum and certainly has a world record, I would also like to place a moment of gratitude on Mrs Shirci, who went with such an impossible counter motion that mine was then confirmed once again, but I would certainly thank all the lions for their unwise conduct. But what was most exciting about the controversy at the time, and you've all let that go, I need to remind you a little bit. These are the provisions on journalistic ethics that are enshrined in this law. How many were the cries: What is this doing in the marriage? This has to get out of the law! And they're just prescribed from journalistic ethics as one that's existed as a charter for a long time. It's not a big deal. Why was that so disturbing? If someone intends to act ethically, if he is going to respect journalistic ethics, if he is going to do professionally, he can't be disturbed, he will say, thank God, even at the legal level, it's protected. But if it bothers him, there's something really wrong. And now we're there. Previously on SMC... there was a lady who said so well... that there were some media in some other country. Well, before we get to it in Slovenia, let's first look at what theory says about it. There's Professor Ferfile's textbook on polytology, and he talks specifically about the United States, but there's one thought in there that's extraordinary. And I quote from his memory, Professor Ferfil there wrote that in American political science, "it is not the biggest journalistic lie when they report half the truth when it comes to a lie, but that the biggest journalistic lie, the most rejected act in journalism, is the systematic silence of something, taboo theme." And the taboo of these, ladies and gentlemen, is very large in Slovenia. Then that's the problem. Because people go to elections in good faith to have a real picture, but of course certain things don't know at all, they have no idea, because it didn't happen in their eyes. The law specifically. Now, what you've blocked all the conclusions for, and why we're listening to such nonsense today, is that, say, the lady in the SD, I'd like to thank you very much for proving that the old Murphy's law is justified, that the paper carries everything and the microphone in Parliament. When that happens, let's see what didn't happen. Let's say we're transferring meetings. What does the law say? By law, it is the duty of RTV Slovenia to transfer all meetings of working bodies, other activities and, of course, all meetings of the National Assembly. Is he doing this? It's not working. So you should be responsible for this leadership right now, the whole thing because it's breaking the law. It's a conscious violation of the law. And look at the miracle, there are just those sessions that talk about Slovenian independence, where there is talk about security in this country, what a press conference, where there is a presentation of how many terrorists have been proven through Slovenia and so the current Slovenian authorities are responsible, criminally, legally and politically, also for the crimes committed by these people in the territory of the European Union, because they have been released by the current rulers through Slovenia without proper verification because they have instructed the police and the authorities not to implement the Schengen and other legislation. That's exactly what we're not getting married about. What a coincidence, huh? It's called taboo darkness. And then it's a problem when you do it because you're breaking the law. And you think that's the only problem with breaking the law? Now, let's see, you've talked so much about journalist ethics, professionalism, autonomy and real neutral comprehensive information as constitutional rights. What else does Murphy's marriage say? For the most highly eloquent words, the lowest interests are always low, low. Well, let's take a look at the case. On the Internet, those who control Facebook know that sometimes it was considered that if you were part of a group on Facebook, if someone else wanted to join you, you got in confirmation or agreed to be a member of this group. Now it's gone. Now he's coming along like that, and someone's been barking at you one confirmation, I'm sure. Then you can look for it somewhere in your internal settings, if, of course, you have so much time in your life to control it or just look at it and if something happens, you don't even know it. And so it happened to someone that for a while he didn't review any of the groups he was in, but then he got a warning that he was a member of a strange group called the Legion of Death, and that guy went online that night, and that group really existed, but he wasn't there among the members. Then he thought, it sucks, it was someone who dropped one duck. See what happens on RTV Slovenia, this is really an example of journalistic ethics, let's listen to this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is so instructive for our media scene. About two weeks after this, this website disappears completely from Facebook, and two weeks after the pages are gone, so you can't verify anything anymore, you can't prove anything, you can't look at anything, but at the most viewed time RTV Slovenia has a multi-minute show, where they match this man, what kind of a bastard is a member of the Legion of Death, they get disgusted, then they make a round table, and they invite their associates to take him back, whatever he is. In the most viewed term RTV Slovenia. Really, that's an example of journalistic ethics and independence, isn't it? And then to someone because he wrote one criticism, a little more sarcastic, these same journalists, who are affected by their high professionalism and journalistic ethics, are filing a lawsuit. In every normal country, ladies and gentlemen, the person who has experienced this on his own would sue RTV Slovenia and these journalists, in every normal country, for misleading the public, for biased reporting, for incomplete reporting, for what is said to silence that part of the truth that shows in the real light that he never knew that he never gave any consent and that he simply had nothing to do with it. But in Slovenia, of course, you are not suing, because this same person has a different experience, because the entire family was declared Nazis, he went to the lawsuits. For these lawsuits, he has so far burned 44,000 euros, at best he may have half of that money, which means that he has been punished twice, the media has discredited him first, and worse still, his family has been discredited, and his children have been subjected to pressure at school, including beatings and destruction of items. But look at him, and now the judiciary will do it so that he will be punished again, for he will pay another 20,000 euros at least out of his pocket in the end. The media will surely report: “Look at how he got it!” This is how much is spent on this, but everyone is quiet, and this is Slovenian justice. We'll talk about it another time. And of course, that's why this man didn't go into that suit, but that doesn't mean that this behavior of a journalist was in line with journalistic ethics and even less that it was in line with the RTV Slovenia Act. Is that why someone responded to RTV Slovenia? Where, however, we could read a statement that he has a claim for that claim, be careful, because of the fact that such a mess has been published, a lie from first to last and misleading, a lie and misleading from first to last minute, has the support of the collective and leadership of RTV Slovenia, probably also financially. End of story. This is how the Law on RTV Slovenia, read, is implemented, is broken in length and thread. By the way, that person was me if anyone didn't know. Here we hear that there is something wrong with the law, there is nothing wrong with the law, it is wrong to sabotage it from the first day and it does not want to be implemented, it does not want to be implemented in precisely those parts that dictate professionalism, journalistic neutrality, independence and that the constitutional principle of information must be respected. Do you know what the constitutional principle of information is? That information on all relevant problems of social life must be accessible to everyone in an easy way, accessible in an accessible way, at any moment, from different value angles. This is full respect for constitutional norms and European standards, if you want. Is that in Slovenia? Yes, I do! Just tell me how much reporting I used to talk about is in line with this principle. Not that it's not, but it's totally against the negation of this principle, every second. And that's why someone got paid. And it's also a negative, and that's why someone should answer. That's the problem. Of course, you will say, look, because neutral media is not, but ladies and gentlemen, this is European and global political science, and if you want another science to accept it a long time ago. Clearly, there are never purely neutral media, they cannot be in practice, let us be honest with ourselves, but they can be balanced and highly professional. It was my wish to go and write that law back then. And that's why I put in provisions that protect the independence of journalism, but require it, from a journalist to respect the principles of journalistic ethics, and in doing so it is consistent to publish comprehensive information, this is what the law says, and that it respects constitutional standards, because it should be self-evident. This is said to indicate that each information is illuminated with different values of angles. Is that how it is in Slovenia? Let him raise his hand who believes it. No one raised their hand. Well, with that, at least I see, we found a common ground. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the subject that the National Assembly is obliged to discuss, because it is a violation of the legislation adopted by the National Assembly and a violation of constitutional standards. The National Assembly, however, is also the founder when it decides on constitutional principles and, of course, decides by an appropriate, at least two-thirds of all votes. It is therefore all the right and also the duty of Parliament to negotiate this. However, those who have prevented any decision from being made without proposing a solution of their own may be ashamed of you. As it is said, the greater, in fact, the greater the violation of human rights of all viewers and viewers, than the fact that if you publish a lie about a person, then, of course, that person’s personal integrity is in the gravest way and, of course, human rights are being violated by it, is that you systematically silence something. And there were many of you when you talked about the composition of the working bodies and how this coalition now decides about RTV Slovenia and how RTV Slovenia works. If I were you, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't brag about it. It is precisely this national assembly, when deciding on the approval of the mandates, even the President of the previous, the President, be careful, the Council of RTV Slovenia, has not confirmed again, only because it has been reported to him that it is not even close to the other side, but that it is not red enough, let us give it at home what it was about. And that's why he was expelled, and he was a doctor of science, and he was a neutral leader, and those who were on the opposite side recognized him, and you didn't confirm him, and you confirmed someone who was politically purely yours. So much for that. Or was it better because some spoke about the previous law, where some had the authority to appoint their own people in the world of RTV, their representatives, and this would guarantee political neutrality? That's what many of you have just advocated, on three silhouettes. Or was it true? Let's think about it. Who was the long-standing President of the RTV Slovenia Council under the previous law? Aha, Janez Kocijancič, former president of the Union of Communists or successors of the Union of Communists or of the current SD, is said to have been the leader of RTV Slovenia for many years. So much for political neutrality. What has already been said by the legendary President of the German Constitutional Court of Hercog, when they had one similar cradle in Germany, if he knew how under the cover of independence politics would be deeply consumed and cremated into the fabric of public television, he would never have signed that constitutional decision as I did. But it was the exact same solution that Slovenia once had in its marriage, the former, the one that is now gone. Of course, if it was, that is why SD and Mr Weber and that lady who had so much to say are so praised – because their president was then the head of RTV Slovenia. This is politically neutral, but this is politically independent. President of the political party at the head of public broadcasting. Great, I have to say. And that's why I'm asking you these kinds of solutions, and someone who's still in their right mind knows something, don't brag, because you're funny, but let's be honest with ourselves. And then, of course, another sound is what the SMC lady said, "Yes, but in Poland, the media are the yellow ones who decide on public opinion." Yeah, but they're red in Slovenia. What's better? Or are these red media so they're a little less yellow? Yeah, given what I told you before, nothing at all. I personally believe that no single yellow medium in Poland is allowed to publish such clearly rude, harmful, lying, manipulative half-truths in order to overwhelm someone who is afraid on the other hand, published by RTV Slovenia in that contribution about me that I mentioned earlier. I seriously doubt that any such contribution has been published in Poland, because I know Poland too well and I have quite a few friends and deep respect for the Poles, by the way. Of course I know why your thorn is in Fifth Poland. There are no more left-wing parties in Poland in Parliament. Just the right middle and the right, over. Poland is therefore economically successful. That is why Poland has rushed us by all the criteria, but once it has been behind us 10 times, not twice, 10 times in many criteria. This is a matter of elections. And then we get to the way people vote. They vote in such a way that they are convinced that they have complete information about the situation in the country. But before that, we have shown that they are lying to them about individuals who are muddy, and one rises to heaven, such as Térka. And then, of course, experience the moment of truth on the international scene. On the other hand, silence the vital events that are important for people to have a comprehensive picture. Shut up about the facts. For example, all the Slovenian media have published this – I speak centrally, also RTV national, clearly, about it today – a picture of that poor child who drowned there. But as far as I can remember, it wasn't published in the same way then, read, it was almost unpublished that it was a directed painting, and that that child drowned because his father was driving a boat and smuggling other migrants to Europe. That's a little awkward. That didn't come out. But you know what's even worse is that it hasn't come out, and no one, as far as I know, but if anyone is, and I apologize deeply, has published pictures of Christian boys hanging on the streets of Syria and Iraq in the same way. No one published pictures of three years old girls who were beheaded simply because they were girls from Christian families in the Middle East, where genocide is taking place. Not a word about that. But when we come to such double standards, we start talking about the abuse of children for political purposes, for precisely defined policies, for biased reporting and, of course, for people who do not know any essential data at all. That's the end of the joke, ladies and gentlemen. Because then people make a completely different decision, but of course I understand the Slovenian media, after importing foreign armies and foreign military forces, two thirds of them bring war for them and are also capable of war by all means, by age, by all means, men, foreign soldiers are imported into European territory and they are brought illegally across Slovenian borders after the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But if a picture of what they are is published, I will not tell these same people, but maybe even one among them, because this is documented already, and more than one, they have started with children from Christian families in the Middle East, and then people would not be as excited about this kind of opening of borders as they would be, but they would ask themselves who is putting people in danger. Not only in danger, but we would also ask ourselves who is putting Europe's prosperity at risk because it is being vaccinated, because the madness that has been happening here with these migrants for years now, of course, is vaccinating the European Union, strengthening the forces that are tearing the European Union apart. Brexit would never have made it without a migrant story. But today everyone's acting like everything's fine. The European Union has already fallen apart, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone does not understand. Let's name things with the right name. The intercultural dialogue that we discussed in this room, when I led the meeting of all parliamentary working bodies, of all the countries of the European Union at a time when Slovenia so successfully chaired the European Union, adopted as a conclusion, united, unanimous, ladies and gentlemen, that things should be named by the right name. And the European Union has fallen apart. It is the fault of those in Brussels who have decided not to respect one part of their own legislation at all, of course, because they have taken a fine picture of how the multimedia in the left-wing media, which, by the way, is paid by Soros. As is the case in Slovenia, you can also see on the Internet, it is very educational. Then all that information would sound a little different, perhaps sometimes some principles would also be the issue of corruption in the Slovenian media, corruption by a foreign, say Soros' capital, which flows through various peace institutions, and others I do not know now that I will not do injustice to anyone, but these addresses are somewhere in Slovenia, from where it came and then flows into the media. And it affects public opinion. What an impact! Which is totally unacceptable for us to understand each other. It's pure crime. This is a far more dangerous form of crime than any financing of foreign political parties, which is prohibited by law and under control, and this is not under control. It is dangerous because it affects fundamental constitutional rights, without which every democracy is just a farce. This is the right to information. That's why it's so dangerous. But that's not what Slovenia says and doesn't talk about. But if at least in that medium, which should be an example that should be a reference to all other media, this is RTV Slovenia, let us talk about the National Assembly, but we are looking for all possible excuses, only not to talk about the real things, the facts, clearly and without misgivings, that things would be called in the right way, although this is exactly the point where everyone once agreed, in Slovenia left and right, and in the whole European Union all, without exception, that things should be named with the right name, even then, and especially when it is a bit uncomfortable, because it sets us a mirror of our own actions. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, let us not pretend that reporting, information and everything else in Slovenia is in accordance with constitutional principles. Please, please, let us not pretend that things are ideal within the only media that is public, which is so that you should have, as it were said, a reference influence on everything else, this is RTV Slovenia. Far from the perfect world. The media reports biasedly, silence certain subjects, and there is a circle of people working hard, and it is always torn away. Whoever is found to be trying to be really neutral or even to comply with the constitutional principle that the same thing has to be shown from different value angles, in particular this is of course important in the most viewed broadcasts such as TV diaries, and much more than in all others, they are usually placed at the door very quickly. And what's a disaster of all disasters, it's not just within the newscasts, it goes a lot further! In the children's media, someone who ran the show very successfully because he publicly stood up for the family, for the children, lost his job. Now let RTV Slovenia do as much as it wants. It's a disaster. This is proof that such RTV Slovenia has nothing to look for, that it should be dissolved because it does not respect its own law, ladies and gentlemen. That's why. For there are provisions in this law, go and read it, saying that the editor and every journalist are obliged to respect the principles of journalistic ethics, to ensure the integrity of reporting, to respect constitutional standards, to respect human integrity, not to wear it for something he didn't even know, only to agree with it at any time, or to have a positive opinion on it. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a real problem of RTV Slovenia. And stuffing your head in the sand doesn't help. We're gonna have to talk about this. Over and over and over again. For as Dr. Jože Pučnik said, democracy is not a goal, democracy is a path that is far from the way. And just to find out, public dialogue allows democracy to continue as a path. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Janja Sluga has the floor to prepare for Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Dr Dragan Matić. Here you go, Lady Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u64	I thank you for your word. In fact, my speaker showed very clearly what we think in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that such a debate is not appropriate for the National Assembly. In fact, our Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Dr Dragan Matić, has, as he himself has said today, tried twice to reject this kind of debate on the Committee on Culture. Of course, because of previous experience, every time this debate was born into something that is not meant to be. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made very clear what can be discussed, and I certainly cannot agree that what they have written can be understood in a number of different ways. On the contrary. Let me quote: »The powers of the National Assembly and the position of RTV Slovenia to address the reporting method of any media, not just RTV Slovenia, and not allow its evaluation.” I don't know how this phrase can be interpreted in any other way than as it was written. Some sort of red thread of this requirement and all the previous ones on the same subject is the problem of paying contributions, political pressures, but of course the ultimate goal is what we are doing today – discussing all possible, different variations on the same subject, of course in front of the cameras. I hope that people listened attentively to what was said today, and they managed to create their own picture. The activities of the SDS as a proponent in this sense and the meaning of the attack on journalists and other media houses as well as on RTV Slovenia did not begin with this reference, their history goes far back, from swan singing to lakai, to reporting instructions with a patriotic note, to non-communication with the media of Mladina and political pressure on Mrs Petrovčič. It's been going on with the freebies, and lately with the bellhops and the friends of the night. I think it's inappropriate, and so does the vast majority of the public. That is why what has happened has happened that we have invited certain people to come to the Committee on Culture, and of course they have apologized and what else is left for them. Thus, the Association of Journalists of Slovenia sent an apology in which they wrote that there was no constructive proposal in those recommendations, but only an attempt to politicise the public broadcasting programme, i.e. a desire to discuss doubts, impartiality and credibility of reporting on public television. A similar response also came from the Director, Mrs Ljerke Bizilj, and the Director, Mr Lamprecht, and I could not agree more with them. In fact, the proposaler is always talking about ethics, about democracy, independence and autonomy, and then proposes recommendations, as proposed, which deny all the four values I have just stated. The first recommendation, which relates to the fact that the National Assembly recommends to the Government that it call for leadership and so on, that it does not now read the entire recommendation. I think so, to all of us, and especially to the proposer, it is clear what powers the government has. All I can say is that marriage is a law, whatever it is, you have to stick to it. And I don't see any sense that the National Assembly or the Government or anyone else in this country is asking someone else to stick to the law or even to give justifiable reasons why they don't stick to it or what it can change. I don't get it, and you'd be very helpful if you could tell me how this is going to work out. If the SDS Group wants to upload something to the leadership, then let it say so itself, do not put it on the government. As I said, the government doesn't have any jurisdiction here, and what you're actually proposing is illegal. First you call for autonomy and independence, and then in the same breath of guidance you impose something. However, this house as a legislator does not, of course, have anything to do with reporting and providing information to any media other than RTV Slovenia. As for the fact that RTV Slovenia is not law-abiding, I think there was a committee meeting in this house in March where we discussed the third RTV programme Slovenia. At that time, in the debate, we agreed that there were some things that needed to be rectified with regard to the issue of the third programme. I feel the same way about this today, so there will be no mistake. At that time we adopted some conclusions which I will now read: "The Committee on Culture calls on the management of RTV Slovenia to provide funds for the smooth functioning of the RTV Slovenia parliamentary programme". Second conclusion: »The Committee on Culture notes that the RTV Slovenia parliamentary programme has been fulfilling the mission laid down by law since the beginning of the broadcast, but at the same time exceeds the content it is obliged to carry out. The Committee on Culture therefore calls on the parliamentary political parties or the parliamentary group to consider legislative solutions to enable the Parliamentary programme of RTV Slovenia to address policy developments more comprehensively at national, European and global level related to the functioning of the National Assembly and thus to develop a parliamentary programme in that direction.” I therefore ask you why you did not stick to this decision and propose amendments to the RTV Slovenia Act. “The Committee on Culture shall urgently assess the need for a comprehensive overhaul of the operational agreement between the National Assembly and the public institution of RTV Slovenia and shall call on the President of the National Assembly to continue his efforts to renovate the Council.” These activities are taking place. So, as has already been said today, we have already agreed, I believe that everyone sitting here in this Chamber and every citizen of this country certainly has comments on reporting, on playing the content, on how journalists are dressed, on how someone is laughing, on how they give someone a word. Of course, these are all legitimate opinions, but the range of the National Assembly is within these conclusions and not a millimeter longer. And as for your second recommendation – respect for professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics in RTV Slovenia. As I said, RTV Slovenia has a certain autonomy and editorial independence by law, has a programming council, has a guardian of the rights of viewers, and also the Media Act stipulates that the functioning of the media must be based on the autonomy of editors, journalists and other authors in the creation and dissemination of programming content. So, the intervention of this institution in these rules is so much more unacceptable and interfering with their work is even more unacceptable. With a third recommendation – I don't even know how to comment on that. First of all, you say that it would be an independent national media council set up by the Government and supervised by the European Commission. How all this goes, and in one more sentence, I don't get it. How should this world then be independent if someone were to establish and control it, control it, do nothing about what it should do, how it should be composed, what its relationship would be to all those I have previously listed, and what the European Commission would monitor how it advises, because the world means that it is to advise, the body advises, and the European Commission will monitor how it advises. I don't know. [[…]] I see the last point of the recommendation as the direct impact of policy on independent and impartial reporting of journalists. As I have already said, I do not think that the National Assembly is competent to order RTV Slovenia to respect the law, nor is it competent for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to impose something for which it is not competent, so it imposes illegal conduct on it. In fact, this recommendation is the same as both previous requests for an emergency meeting, as I said, aimed only at discrediting one media, and this is RTV Slovenia. It does not take into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which I cited as a part of. We truly admire your persistence, because I think that both here in this Chamber and those who accompany this meeting, and now crystal clear what is being achieved by this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Branko Grimes, please. Proposer, please. Procedurally, please. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much. President, I would just like to ask my fellow Servant to point out that the Committees' conclusions are never above the laws and, secondly, that she cannot reject the decision to generalise it as if we had all accepted it. The fact was that there were also some conclusions at that meeting that were not adopted, and we cannot say that if most people accept something, we all agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u67	It's a replica. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you. First of all, this performance was a great example of the most frequent manipulation we face in Slovenian media, and unfortunately, including the public RTV programme, when it is said that today Parliament has decided this and this has been adopted in Parliament, and completely silently all the debate, all the other comments and silences, and this is the most common thing that the opposition has warned, opposed, did everything that those stupidities would not have been accepted, but it is sacred and saving, similar to the conclusions that the lady quoted when she said, yes, why didn't you refer to these conclusions because we voted for them. Very simple, it is you who have accepted it and it is your responsibility, and you exercise it, because you have authority, but not then to inspire us. This applies to any conclusions that we did not support, not just those that you listed earlier, some among them. And the second part of this story is, you've now given the best confirmation as proof of what's wrong with this whole story. If it bothers you to demand respect for the law, respect for the Constitution, respect for human rights and consistency in respect for the human rights and personal integrity of the individual and respect for journalistic ethics and consistency in respect for the principles of journalistic ethics, then, forgive me, something is very wrong with you. However, if this is the same for officials on RTV Slovenia and some journalists, then there is something even more wrong with these. What is said, however, is that the leadership of RTV Slovenia, editors and journalists is in the way of respecting the law, demanding respect for the Constitution, constitutional principles, personal integrity and human rights, and demanding respect for journalistic ethics and consistency in respect of journalistic ethics and the implementation of those constitutional principles that require that any relevant information be easily accessible and illuminated from different values of angles. Then, ladies and gentlemen, it is with such journalists, with such editorials, with such officials and with such a public RTV house and with such coalition as is responsible, and with the government that realizes and supervises it, something very bad. And this is the basic message of today's session. Something's very wrong. Critical distances will be needed from people to what mainstream media are serving them. If this is achieved, it'll be a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go. Get Dr. Dragan Matić ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u70	Yes, Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the public institution, about the public media, this is RTV Slovenia. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we made these recommendations when it was a little warm summer, but at the time, some people said it was nonsense. I am always most disturbed by this National Assembly when a coalition is organised and some of the problems the opposition warns about take the view that these problems are not suitable for further proceedings. It's like we're not living in the same country. Even when I was listening to my colleague, who is now leaving the hall, Lady Servant, a man feels like we live in Switzerland. I already once told the Chamber that the situation in the Republic of Slovenia is also under the responsibility of the media, which we have been talking about all morning. That is a fact, and until we all acknowledge it together, either left or right or middle, yellow or red or blue. With this question, the more we move away from the present to the future, the more we will face the future. Let me tell you one example that was this week when the opposition was sometimes misunderstood. About the law, about one of the laws of this week that came to the National Assembly of the Committee, every two months we warned that, of course, a coalition on that law of the work of the Cossacks, had been said domestically. For two months, we have been condemned to be wrongful, especially by law. Yesterday, before the vote, the following happened, the leader of one of the coalition parties applied and said that the Members of this party had contributed signatures for this law, but that they had been misled and that he did not know it and that he apologized and would vote against it. It took two months for some to understand what we want to say in the Slovenian Democratic Party in which of the opposition's parties. So is this media we're talking about today. It is very unseemly that these recommendations have been rejected by the Committee on Culture with the view that they are not suitable for further consideration. Dear Members and Members of all the parties! I wonder why we've been afraid of this issue for years. Is anyone afraid that TV will stop inviting him to any show? Is anyone afraid I don't know what kind of job they're gonna lose? My colleagues and colleagues, I've had a chance to talk to someone who runs the Echoes, and he can tell us what their job is. He's been preparing the show all afternoon, and the big boss is coming in at night, taking the tower and crossing the contents, and, of course, he's got to write down what needs to be done and who needs to be invited to the Odessa. The Committee on Culture also said that two important members of television would not participate in this committee. But I had already had the opportunity to meet them and listen to them in the National Assembly, and when we also highlighted the problems in which these recommendations were made, these people fully agreed, but said that they had many problems on the way or on the steps to reach the goal. Of course, I also wonder why the excuse for not being able to take part in such a committee where the point touching this public house, the public institution, the public media which co-creates the Slovenian image is. I had the opportunity to speak to one of the Presidents of the Supervisory Board of this institution who could tell when the President was that many people were getting paid in this institution that never crossed the door of the institution. And we could list it. We could also list it, but if they turn off the cameras today and we all go out for coffee together, we will all be able to talk about these problems when it comes to public speaking, but the majority of the Committee on Culture has voted that these essential problems, which we have been alerting the Slovenian Democratic Party for years, have been indecisive and do not deserve further consideration. I am firmly convinced that any recommendation can be added. There should be more. We are also certainly ready to listen to any other party, honourable Members and Members, to add something. It is unacceptable and unseemly, though, that we have not been able to speak publicly about the problems that we have been looking at together for many years. However, I must point out that this is our public institution, in which our citizens and citizens pay for it every month, and also the state provides money. This, honourable Members, you forget. I want to know who your mentor is, who's ordering you not to talk. The next item will be health care. Have you also been told in this segment that this is rude and that it does not merit consideration in the National Assembly? Remember, these recommendations were made by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which received 200,000 votes in the last elections, which was very worried about getting as few as possible. What would be the result today for this party to receive 15 more Members? Then those directors there wouldn't apologize to the Committee on Culture. We'd be sitting there. That's exactly how they know they don't have to. Let me finish this slowly. This year I was in the hospital for a week and because the time was an opportunity, there was television in the room and I set a goal one day to watch through the entire day, as far as possible, the first programme of Television Slovenia. That I wouldn't just criticize you. I've seen a lot of positive things all day. So for adults, so for children. This house has a lot of positive people, a lot of experts. Until tonight the diary started, Studio City, and the echoes. That's when it ends. That is when this positive Slovenian television ends. I am not an expert in the media, but I am interested in the situation in Slovenia, so today I am also in Parliament because I care about how people live. This media is responsible for this. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish with that sentence I started with. As soon as we realize that our public media is responsible for the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, we are responsible for how our citizens and citizens will live tomorrow, we will be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić has the floor and then, in the final part, she gets the floor of Ms Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go, Dr. Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. If we go from the end when Mr Podkoršek asked why it was voted on the Committee on Culture, that these conclusions are inappropriate but who is the mentor, that he tells us not to confirm this, and that it is inappropriate that the recommendations were inappropriate and what are the motives for this, and that if we are afraid that there will be some speculation in RTV broadcasts and what, coffee talks with whom and so on. I just have to tell him the answer is very simple. The recommendations are inappropriate because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have the authority to call on the management of RTV Slovenia to do anything because it does not. It is inappropriate for this address to be considered at all because illegal acts or illegal recommendations cannot continue to be considered if it is completely unreasonable or illegal. Then why should we set up a national media council, which must be supervised by the European Commission, and why the government should set up this, is also a complete nonsense because it does not exist anywhere in Europe. Nowhere in Europe does the European Commission control the national media council, which is supposed to be independent, to be established by the government and not known to me. But about this a little later. To return to these matters which Mrs Bah Žibert has spoken about how this was rejected at two meetings of the Committee on Culture. For the first time, of course, it was rejected because there was a whole lot of such specific indications, which journalist, on which occasion, according to their assessment of the work was incorrect and because I have to read once again the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which said that “the competence of the National Assembly and the position of RTV Slovenia do not allow the treatment and evaluation of the method of reporting”. [[…]] They had to be invited to change the material they submitted. This was then withdrawn from the material, but alive baptism failed to understand what they wanted by recommending that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia set up an independent national media council, which must be supervised by the European Commission, in accordance with European standards, in order to ensure compliance with European values. Somehow, however, they failed to substantiate this with any meaningful material in order to understand which direction they wanted to discuss. For example, in principle we could talk about this as a systemic measure. And it's right that Mrs. Bah Gibert thanked me earlier for doing the job for them. In the Committee on Culture, meetings shall not be convened on the basis of two or three copies of certain articles from newspapers, as is the case with the working bodies where their Members are led. That's when the media comes to their senses when they find out that the media are writing, which could be a source for their debates and quickly call together a working body. Here on the Committee on Culture, however, I expect a little more, something substantive. And because they were unable to do so, I asked how this was about the European Commission's control. I turned to Mr Zoran Stančič, Head of Representation of the European Commission in Slovenia. And what did he say to me? I quote from his letter: "The Framework Media regulates among others the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which defines only broader principles at the principal level. More specifically, requirements are made for the dissemination of audiovisual programmes by other countries, the prevention of hate speech, advertising and the like. The European Commission does not have any supervisory body, and the above directive prescribes a contact committee composed of representatives of the Member States. The purpose of this committee is not to control it. The organisation or management of the media in the Audiovisual Services Directive is not defined.” This is said to be how the matter is regulated in relation to the European Commission as a Member State. Then I continued to do a homework that the SDS couldn't, and I went to look at a comparative review of media freedom. And now what it says here, among other things, I will quote only some passages: "The European Charter on freedom of the press also plays an important role in ensuring freedom of the media. The Charter was signed in May 2009 by 48 European journalists from 19 countries with the support of the European Commission in order to protect the press from government interference and to provide journalists with access to information sources." The SDS gentlemen, however, want the government to establish a supposedly independent media world. Next: “The European Parliament, in its resolution of May 2013 in the Charter of the European Union, said that the Member States and the European Union had called on Member States to respect, ensure, protect and promote the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information and therefore not to threaten freedom of the media, for example by attempts at inappropriate and political influence or pressure and by imposing party control, censorship of the media or by restricting or marrying freedom” and so on and so on. It also clearly states in this study: "The European Parliament also recalls that the European Union has powers in areas related to the media, such as the internal market, audiovisual policy, competition, including state aid, telecommunications and fundamental rights." Furthermore, the European Commission has repeatedly responded to initiatives from the European Parliament and the Vice-President of the European Commission stressed in June 2012 at the Forum on media plurality in Brussels, quote: "The European Union currently does not have legal powers to act in the field of media pluralism as part of its normal business. In practice, the role of the Commission is to include naming and embarrassing the ad hoc State when problems arise.” End of quote. I have not yet heard that the European Commission would embarrass us because the media are supposed to be oppressed or that they are non-floating or that there is anything wrong with this. If we go any further, we'll see what's going on with the media worlds across Europe. Austria, the Press Council, which was founded in 1961 by the Association of Austrian Journalists and the Union of Austrian Journalists, has no government to hear it. In Belgium, we also have Belgian associations of newspaper publishers, journalists and journals, which established the Press Press Council in 1982. Then in Denmark, it's like that. Then we have in Finland, publishers and journalists have set up a voluntary self-regulatory world for mass media, its primary purpose is to explain good professional practices and so on. There is no institution in Italy to oversee the exercise of media freedom rights, in Luxembourg there is also a Council of Printed Media, where there are representatives of journalists and journalists and so on and so on. These are the saints who are autonomous, these are the saints who are not established by the government. Look, I've done my homework instead of SDS, this proposal is totally stupid. Nor does the European Commission have the power to oversee anything in a Member State, nor does the government establish such councils anywhere. And then Mr Podkoršek here is disgusted that we are not these recommendations, which are so very well-founded and well-founded, recommended that the Government continue to exercise certain powers that it does not have at all to call on public RTV Slovenia to recognise that it does not enforce laws and then tell why it does not. It's kind of similar, or it's tragically similar to some sort of inquisitorial procedure, when you say, we know that you're a witch, and now just admit why you're a witch and when you're a witch, and then we'll see what we're going to do with you. I mean, it is logically the way these recommendations picture themselves, it is also completely something that is a completely inappropriate approach and means a harsh interference of policy into something that is clearly defined by law as autonomy – Article 2 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. Finally, I would like to point out that, regardless of what has been said today, and regardless of all these recommendations, which are entirely unfounded, it is essential that the media development strategy in the Republic of Slovenia develops by 2024, that we have already seen some of the drafts on which we have had very serious comments, that we expect a new version of the media development strategy to provide, inter alia, public but not state or government television, and that maybe all those mechanisms that can be weak today and that this debate will be broad, plural, especially with the participation of journalists themselves, their state societies, the radio programmes themselves, and that we will come up with some quality improvements, because, in this regard, I already agree that this law is obsolete and that it would need to be updated in many ways, but in my opinion, far from these mechanisms that we are recommend these recommendations to the SDS that we are in these recommendations that we are in these recommendations, which we have already made. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u74	Once again, I don't know how to do it in a nice way, so that it's understandable to everyone, I emphasize. Where a law is being dealt with, Parliament shall also have the right to exercise its supervisory function, how this law is then implemented in practice. Even this is a duty, and it is very often forgotten, or some of you obviously do not know that it is and that it follows from the very principle of the legislative branch of power. Similarly, the supervisory function under its powers on the part of the Government. Under government law, the government is responsible for any area of social life, each minister is specifically responsible for the area for which he is legally competent and cannot avoid it. This is said to be the case when it comes to the constitution, and the founder is precisely this national assembly, as soon as it begins to decide in a qualified manner, by a two-thirds majority according to the appropriate procedure laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. And, of course, he has not only a right, but also a duty to warn that things are not being done as they should, as follows from the principles and to lay down constitutional standards. Here is a particularly sensitive subject area for the protection of human rights, respect for human integrity in the media, not lying about a human being, not deceiving himself, not spreading half-truths. The right to personal integrity is a constitutional right, but you know it, and of course you know it, because you burned three times on your committee when we discussed these topics and because you wanted to stop the session because it was so burning under your ass. Anyone who doesn't believe this should go look at the footage of that thing. There was a time and space for all the arguments to be widely presented, of course it is not here. But there is something else I can say when you have so much to say about what is the responsibility of Europe. The European Parliament, underlining the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, stressed that the European Commission must ensure that Member States in their territory ensure the proper implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which is reflected, quote, Mr Matić: "through media pluralism, equal access to information and respect for freedom and independence of the press". Exactly what we've been saying all day. Our requirements are not different in anything but what follows from these standards. So what did we want? We want and demand, and this right gives us the Constitution to respect the principle of human integrity, human rights, constitutional principles, including the right to information, to participate in the management of public affairs on the basis of correct and comprehensive, from the various value angles of enlightened and easily accessible information all the time. That's what's missing. And of course, what else is missing? Consistency in respecting the principles of journalistic ethics in reporting to check that things are not published half-truths, that people are informed in full, that people really have a view of what is happening in practice in the country and decision. For only this can be the foundation of democracy. Democracy is a farce when this condition of media plurality, comprehensive information, consistent respect for journalistic ethics, human rights and human integrity is not respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u75	Yes, thank you very much. So Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I'm supposed to finish now. Maybe I'll close, but maybe I'll reopen the case. It's true, Your Honor, but I'll give you something right. How can this government establish an independent media world? You're right here. How naive we are that the current government will be able to establish an independent media world. That's right. We'll have to wait for another time. But this government isn't capable of anything else. It is not able to even ensure the implementation of the law, for you well know how the programming council is made up. Something is really at the expense of political belonging – is it so?–, political representation, and the other is experts. Let's see what you named after the new one. Branka Bezjak – candidate on the list of SDS in Ptuj, member of the SD Women's Forum. Aloysij Bogataj, candidate of Desus in the early parliamentary elections in 2011. Damir Orehvec, the Maribor saint of SMC. Then you have Mr. Mitja Rotovnik, a completely independent person, co-founder of Forum 21. Then we have some very important media experts – Domen Savič. What did I hear about inappropriate tweets today? Let's see what you've named in the programming world. And even when you talk about inappropriate tweets, I'm more concerned that someone behind this microphone is sending some mothers, and you start dealing with your problems. And this independent programme council, which has a new president, I have said that this new president has publicly stated that one political option must be removed from the country's premises. So he went after the electorate, he's now the president of the world. And what was their first action or decision? They're shutting down the public programming board. About the functioning of the Programme Council on public RTV Slovenia, no one else will know what is going on. Why do you need this closure? Do you imagine any other government that would decide that the work of the programming board would be closed to the public and then publish some recordings? Not only was there one item on the agenda here, but I think we would have hung some dolls again and knocked on the doors, across the homes of citizens and citizens, and threatened them for their decisions, even though they were legally and legally elected in the elections. Isn't that a problem, Your Honor? Of course, we will talk about RTV, because it is our duty and we are paid for it. Because, as I said, there is a law over them, we must talk about them, we must be informed of their work, and it is not true that our wallets must be emptied at all costs. And so, once again, do not deal with who calls for non-payment of RTV contributions, deal with why these calls are coming. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We've got some time left. Is there any other desire to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Then I conclude the debate on the proposal for a recommendation. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Tuesday, 27, in accordance with the timetable of the meeting. 9, in the context of the vote, following the conclusion of the 24th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing a single university institute of the Faculty of Information Studies in the new city. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a decree. They're gone. Good. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 19th meeting, on 6 September this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town, submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly. The legislative and legal service examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and technical aspects and made a comment to Article 2 and their representative pointed out the need to supplement Article 5(3) of the Decree with the field of art. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. In the framework of the shorter debate, the main issues raised were the need for a study area, the programmes to be established in the field of art and the order in which the acts of the Faculty and the decision in relation to the new field of study were adopted. As no amendments were adopted to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth proposed to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town should be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you for your words and your warm welcome to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we will support the proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing a stand-alone higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in the New Town. This is about the fact that the existing system or infrastructure that the faculty has for its activities is being used better and that when it adds a new field of study, namely art, this will be done in a way that will actually achieve multimedia production. In fact, it is not about classical art, such as painting and sculpture, but about digital art or multimedia production. Thus, the introduction and marketing of a new training programme will contribute to the more cost-effective use of the faculty infrastructure. We can also read this in an explanation of the decision itself and a justification for the need for the decision to be amended. On this occasion, however, we would like to draw attention to the problem again, because we do not have a definition of what public service is, in the Higher Education Act, and what is financed by public funds, but what can be financed in the market. As a result of these unclear provisions, the relationship between regular and exceptional education is not well regulated and consequently there is no clear distinction between the public and market interest of higher education institutions. Surely we all have before our eyes and in our minds all the problems that have occurred precisely because of these anomalies and when we have met with the affairs associated with the author's fees. If we had a structured public programme, we would also provide adequate public funds and there would be no such problems. As a result, we can believe that the very process of adopting acts is somewhat or entirely contrary to the hierarchy of acts that we are adopting. In fact, even in this case, the university's statutes were first amended, where they defined this programme, and today we are meeting in the National Assembly with a decree to cover this decision in college. Of course, the decree in the hierarchy is a higher legal act and it would be appropriate to adopt a decree first, and then the statutes of the faculty will be amended as well. We can assume that the reason for such procedural treatment or mistreatment is precisely because we do not have a defined public service in the Higher Education Act. If this were clearly defined, it is also a clearly defined source of funding and there is no problem by the National Assembly when you adopt such a decree, because you know that it is a public service, that it is a public funding obligation, and consequently a statute can be regulated. Thus, in the further regulation of the higher education area not only in the New Town, but everywhere in Slovenia it is indeed crucial to define what the public service is in higher education and, consequently, how much resources we devote to ensuring that this public service can function normally, without such problems as I mentioned earlier, in the form of an affair. Nevertheless, at this stage, as I have said, we will support this decree and ensure that the existing infrastructure is used even more optimally and that it is easier to implement its educational programme. In the long run, however, public service should be set up as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Kotnik will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u82	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! We have before us a motion for a decree amending the Decision establishing a separate higher education institution, the Faculty of Information Studies, in New Town. A key change, which this time is the decree, is the introduction of an additional field of art study with a view to achieving the objectives, namely, improving quality and level of knowledge. The Faculty has decided on a new field of study to improve the quality of higher education and increase its importance for the labour market, as well as to improve the level of knowledge and skills through the development of new and innovative educational programmes. This objective is also intended to be achieved in college through the preparation of training programmes, which are defined by the current Higher Education Act as a form of lifelong learning aimed primarily at completing, complementing, deepening and updating knowledge. In the SMC Group, we would like to recall Article 6 of the current Higher Education Act, which discusses the autonomy of higher education institutions. Accordingly, universities and independent higher education institutions established by the Republic of Slovenia shall act in accordance with the principle of autonomy, which ensures, inter alia, the independent regulation of the internal organisation and the operation of the statute in accordance with the law and the production and adoption of study and scientific research programmes. This is also supported by the individual founding acts of all public higher education institutions, which contain a provision which gives the institution the possibility to establish an additional study area in the Statute, where such determination requires the consent of the founder or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the meeting of the Committee on Education, Sport and Youth Science, as well as in the previous review of the amendments and the amendment of the decisions in this mandate, the question of the correctness of the procedure for the adoption of the college's constitution was raised several times. In the SMC Group, we estimate that it would be valid in the future and in general to reflect on the relevance of the current process of supplementing the instruments, in particular in the light of the principle of autonomy mentioned above. At this time, however, it is appropriate to carry out a substantive assessment of whether the extension of the study area is relevant and necessary and, in particular, or follows the basic purpose of the faculty for which it was established. In the SMC Group, we estimate that the placement of the new study area makes sense, and we stress that it is not classical art, but mainly digital art or multimedia production. That is why we have supported this change already on the committee itself and will do so today. Let me conclude that it gives the novel of the Higher Education Act, which we have in the parliamentary procedure, a direct response to the fear of the possibility of establishing new universities, since the conditions for the establishment of tightening up are set out in the current law too loose. Therefore, when the amendment is further adopted, we expect Members and Members to be able to rationally assess the importance and necessity of the adoption of this amendment, as well as the subsequent system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! In the SDS Group, we will support the resolution on amendments to the Decree on the establishment of an independent school institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi Grad. Allow me, however, as a representative of the constituency, where the faculty seat is also, to congratulate all those who have chosen new premises. I myself have had the opportunity to meet this space and I must say that we have, unlike previous places where so many employees, especially for students, have squeezed into small classrooms, such a college as Dolenjska deserves. We also agree in the parliamentary group that it is necessary to support the Multimedia Production programme. Any extension of useful study programmes, especially those outside Ljubljana, will allow young people to go to education or study in nearby places and therefore a new programme is also an opportunity for all young people from Posavje, Dolenjska, Kočevsko and Bela Krajina to study at home and then stay at home. On this occasion, I would particularly like to call on the Ministry's representatives to consider drawing up a plan to tighten the conditions for new universities. In the SDS Group, we are always against centralisation, and we will also do so in all the other legislative proposals that this government will bring. Even more so, in our view, it is necessary to get a system-wide law on higher education and not a semi-finished amendment to the law and, last but not least, a new law on research activities, because what helps us with the new usable study programmes, but if this is not followed by a country with adequate funding for these programmes. In short, congratulations to the Faculty of Information Studies, both for new premises and for the new programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendment cannot be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made on Tuesday 27 September in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up the 17th item of the agenda. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR RESEARCH The proposal for a recommendation on the issue of extending waiting periods in Slovenian health care. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 20 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mrs Jelki Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u86	Your Honor, thank you very much. I have to say that today is a very interesting situation, because here before me even or colleague Kotnikov is present, but otherwise another is sitting from SMC. So we can see the attitude towards the biggest problem in Slovenian health – until the waiting days. I hope they're listening somewhere. However, this is also the point that we have put in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the subject of extending waiting periods, which has also been preceded by rejection on the parental committee, so all the recommendations we have proposed have been unanimously rejected by the coalition. Despite the fact that coalition partners, the current government, in their coalition agreement, have committed themselves to strengthening the public health system in a way that will ensure that all insured persons have equal opportunities for health care when they need it and are entitled to it. Accessible, quality and effective health care will be the priority of this coalition have been written down. Therefore, they also committed themselves to preparing a new proposal for the Health Action Act and as a priority for the Health and Health Insurance Act. The entry in the coalition agreement can certainly give us optimism, but today we can see in the essence what the reality is – ignoring the coalition agreement by the largest coalition partner and, of course, not yet being fulfilled in the middle of the mandate. The Government shall also draw up a regulatory plan each year setting out, for each area, when the laws will be adopted, when they will be put into the procedure, when they will be adopted in the Government, when they will be adopted in the National Assembly or proposed in the National Assembly, and from this normative plan for 2014, 2015 and 2016 it is clear that the preparation of key laws in the field of health care will be carried out in 2017. The adoption of novels of the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Health Action Act, which would form the basis for fundamental changes in Slovenian health care, are therefore moving away from year to year. As we know, to this day the Ministry of Health has not prepared anything but sent to the National Assembly for confirmation. However, pilot projects are being implemented, analyses are being ordered, taxpayers' money is being spent, waiting periods are being extended, public health users' dissatisfaction is rising, not only users, but also healthcare providers. Data on waiting periods are collected by the National Institute for Public Health and according to known data from 1 August 2016, 13 or almost 14 thousand patients were waiting for the first medical examination for a little more than 114 patients, which is more than the same period of the previous month, which is the month of July. Compared to 2015, the waiting periods for the first specialist review increased by 6%, while those waiting longer than the permissible period are 26% higher. The 2013 analysis shows that this increase is 30% or that more of them are waiting above the limit, some 28 thousand 200 more people, which is, say, compared with the municipalities, for the entire Kamnik municipality. According to known information also on day 1. 8. In 2016, there will be 39 000 865 patients waiting for both ambulances and border services, representing 18.5% of all patients waiting. If I list only a few outpatients who on average exceed the permissible waiting period limit of 90 days, these are according to the statistics of the National Institute of Public Health: the rheumatological infirmary, on average, waits for 365 days, one year, and half of those enrolled in the waiting list waits for 465 days or more; on average, the urological infirmary waits 102 days, half of them waits 88 days; on orthopedic outpatients 101 days and half of all listed waits for about 100 days or more. For too long, waiting for interventions and visits to specialists also leads to a deterioration in recovery and timely action. The longest waiting periods are longer than a year, which can also be fatal for waiting patients. Access to health services is one of the fundamental rights of citizens, and many patients, while waiting for a review, complain that they are violating their rights to equal access and treatment. With the dissatisfaction of patients and relatives, there is also a growing lack of confidence in the Slovenian health system, the reputation of Slovenian doctors, nurses and other staff in Slovenian health care is being undermined. We should be aware of that at the Ministry of Health, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc with her team. We should also be aware of this today in the largest coalition party, which, once again, is very poorly represented and shows a re-relationship to the recommendations proposed by the opposition. It seems, however, that at the Ministry of Health they are almost entirely on another planet, if I may say so. According to the Minister, the Ministry was already aware in 2015 that the area of waiting periods is a priority for them. They started a project entitled To better manage waiting periods. The purpose of the project, if you read it in the official documents of the Ministry of Health, is therefore not to reduce waiting periods in the objectives and purposes. It says: “The objectives of the project are: to prepare an overview of the current state of affairs with regard to some waiting years in Slovenia, to identify the reasons for their emergence and to assess the consequences of too long waiting periods.” If, of course, the Minister was here today and we could ask her, or further, why such projects, which identify things that we can say today, after all the round tables, meetings and so on, have been carried out in recent months, we somehow know these analyses. Why, while you collect data from the Ministry and teach and, of course, for these analyses also benefit tax money, in fact, you can say that disasters occur on the ground and analyses are literally carried out on the ground. They will review some waiting periods at the Ministry, at least as stated in the project's objectives. Well, some of these are definitely collected at the National Institute of Public Health. Recognizing the causes of waiting times, we can say that sparrows are already chirping on the branch. If they did not listen to them at the Ministry, they could listen to all those who had already done so before this government, doing analyses, giving not only reasons for waiting times, but also solutions. What are the consequences of the long waiting period, but we can all monitor together every day in front of a hospital, after statistics of invalidity pensions, death victims, and the end of tragic excesses in hospitals. The current V.D. Director of the Health Insurance Office also gave a financial review at the meeting of the parental committee to reduce waiting periods and said that under all these categories he had distributed, some poor 40 million would be needed. In health care, there are some 3.2 billion euros. So, Minister, in the end, he boasts of €7.9 million in money for shortening the waiting period. This money is basically just sand in the eyes, kind of a populist project, which basically discriminates against patients. In addition, 200 shoulder operations are expected to take place after this project. Why not, say, hip atroplastics, where waiting periods are two years and more or surgery of splenic veins, where waiting periods are years. Yeah, we can also read expert explanations of why not and why these operations can wait, but patients are asking why not me, why the shoulder surgery, why not the surgery of my splenic veins. Or would you rather at the Ministry allow patients to visit foreign doctors abroad and then at home, as we have heard, treat them many times, if I can say in quotations, even by domestic doctors. The Minister also welcomes the adoption of the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025. This was early this year. Interestingly, some former ministers also point out that a resolution has been adopted first and analyses are being carried out. It's supposed to be the other way around. So let's do an analysis and then write down a resolution and all the measures that are needed to solve a particular problem. This resolution also sets out three measures, from analysis to the pilot project in the field of waiting periods, and the deadline for the final report is 2017. The question is whether the Ministry is deceiving these deadlines, when will it adopt a law and what kind of project will be completed. Indeed, after what the resolution states, the analysis of waiting periods is expected to take place from 2015 to 2016. The results are expected to be published in 2017. In view of the results of this project, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Patient Rights Act was to be adopted in 2018. The normative plan states that the deadline for the adoption of this law is 29. 9. 2016, so in a few days. And when you review the documents by the Ministry, the resolution, the normative plans, then you don't know when the law will be passed, because the deadlines vary for a year. The poor health situation escalated in enormous waiting periods, in the dissatisfaction of patients, tragic events that should never have happened. The irresponsibility of the ministry, particularly Minister Kolar Celarc, the blinding of the eyes to the real world and the real problems, causes dissatisfaction between the medical profession. At the time of the adoption of new laws, the adoption of key laws, the adoption of decisions in health care calls on different stakeholders not only the Medical Chamber, where at the extraordinary assembly yesterday we were able to hear sharp criticisms at the expense of the Ministry and also criticism at our expense, at the expense of Members. Citizens are being summoned, Members not only in the opposition are also calling on the Minister to take decisive steps today and not tomorrow to help reduce waiting times. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we made recommendations, as I said, which were rejected on the parental committee, namely recommendations which, I must say, I am surprised that they were disputed over the coalition. In fact, we have proposed to immediately do everything possible to shorten waiting periods, to make a separate plan, a short-term plan and a long-term plan, to eliminate waiting periods, to report within three months to the National Assembly, whose activities have been carried out at the Ministry of Health with regard to the reduction of waiting periods, and to examine the consequences of too long waiting periods for insurers, public finances and, of course, to inform the National Assembly of these findings. All of these recommendations were rejected by the coalition. They were also rejected in saying that our health care is good, almost excellent and that the ministry has already done almost everything to shorten waiting periods. Let me recall once again the cut-off dates recorded by the Ministry in the resolution, the normative plans and its acts. They're different in a year. I therefore ask my colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly whether we will be watching the collapse of the Slovenian public health system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party – our answer is certainly not. We will continue not only to warn, but also to actively participate in all activities that will help Slovenian citizens get what the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia gives them – accessible and quality public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The proposal for a recommendation is at the 15th session of 7. 9. 2016 treated the Health Committee as a parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Gantar, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the home working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good bye to all of you! As it is said, the Health Committee is at its 15th session. 9. As a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of extending waiting periods. The proposal for a recommendation was published on the website of the National Assembly and in the Rapporteur of 17. 6. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 7. 7. and by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 22. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendments were not tabled. Ms Jelka Godec presented the introductory supplementary explanation to the proposal for the recommendation on behalf of the applicant. She pointed out that Slovenian health care has been facing longer waiting periods for several years, the longest waiting periods exceed a year, and some are catastrophically long, and mentioned operations, as in her opening presentation. Data for individual areas are incomplete as the National Institute for Public Health does not monitor certain areas, which means that the number of people waiting can be much higher. The Slovenian Democratic Party warns of health problems all the time. At the beginning of its term of office, the Government has announced health reform as one of its priorities, but no system law has been introduced to date. The Minister does not manage the area because he has been promising the last two years, but he does not approach or take measures to solve the problems. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, also presented her comments and stressed that all developed countries are facing the challenge of waiting times. She cited a number of reasons as reasons for long-term waiting periods, but among the important ones are outdated and inadequate accounting models of funding by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, lack of financial resources, poor organisation and efficiency, management of institutions and inadequate management and structure of waiting lists. She said that the pilot project for the management of waiting periods, which began in 2015, had already produced the first results in some hospitals and health homes. Based on these results, systemic measures will be proposed. In particular, it stressed that, as a short-term measure, the Government has earmarked €7.9 million for certain additional services, which have been chosen on health standards as the most urgent and €8 million for additional specialist reviews and basic diagnostics. The Minister also announced that after 13 years, an e-passenger will be fully implemented so that no more paper travel will be carried out as of 1 January 2017. With the introduction of e-procurement, we will have for the first time an electronic central register of waiting ones established so far. Each individual will be able to register with the individual operator, get a date, and thus review where the species are the shortest. They also presented their views to the Director of the Association of Health Institutions and the Director of the Health Insurance Institute. In a broad and controversial debate, members of the opposition committee made a number of observations on the work of the Minister and the existing government or coalition, which in the field of health, with the exception of the promises of reform, did nothing for the systematic regulation of the area. Members of the coalition stressed that health problems had accumulated for a number of years and could not be resolved in a short time. However, the members of the committee were united in the fact that no extra money will be available in the area of health care. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the proposal for a recommendation together and did not adopt it. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9. 12. In 2009, the Chairman of the Committee noted that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation on the issue of extension of waiting periods in Slovenian health care in the home working body had been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar. To present the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Sandri Tušar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u90	Dear Members! In 2015, the Ministry of Health approached the issue of waiting periods, with short- and long-term measures. In the introduction, first of all, let me say that waiting periods are faced by most developed European countries and represent an imbalance between the ability of the health service provider and the demand for health services, so we are trying to develop solutions in this area in a comprehensive way by adopting a package of measures. Factors affecting demand for health services are the ageing population, the development of new technologies, patient awareness of their rights, care for their own health and, last but not least, patient requirements, inadequate financing models, lack of financial resources, poor performance and sub-optimal organisation of operators, poor management of waiting lists. In view of all of this, last year the Ministry launched a pilot project to improve the performance of waiting periods aimed at preparing an overview of the current situation, to identify the reasons for the emergence of waiting periods, to assess the consequences of too long waiting periods and, of course, to shorten waiting periods. Partners involved in the pilot project were selected hospitals and some health homes. We are already finding that individual activities with the reorganisation within the health institution under existing resources could achieve a reduction in waiting periods and the number of waiting ones. We continue with the second phase of the pilot project, which aims and aims at reducing waiting periods, intensive primary and secondary cooperation by establishing telephone consultations with specialists, thereby reducing the number of unnecessary referrals, education of personal doctors, identifying the causes of unnecessary referrals, increasing accessibility to specialist treatment for patients in need, improving the quality of treatment and patient satisfaction, better use of financial and human resources. In addition to this project, the following short-term measures were implemented with a view to reducing waiting periods in 2015/2016. We have changed the way individual health services are financed, since 1. 1. 2016 is paid for all MRI examinations, all examinations and interventions and treatment for cancer patients are also paid. This government has approved a single additional programme to reduce waiting lines of €7.9 million for selected interventions and €8 million for all first specialist reviews, including related diagnostics. We have called on all health care providers to draw up plans to shorten waiting periods for the first specialist reviews and diagnostics by the end of this year within their own capacities. We introduce eProcurement and, as already mentioned, with 1. 1. 2017 paper guide will no longer be required. However, the long-term systemic measures to be implemented through new legislation are: upgrading the multi-response guide, upgrading the electronic management of waiting lists and eProcurement, renovating the Patient Rights Act and harmonising the Regulation on Longest Allowable waiting periods for individual health services and on how to manage waiting lists, the possibility of keeping separate lists for patients who are unable to operate or who want to wait for an acceptable waiting period due to a specific selected doctor. Finally, I should like to reiterate that waiting periods and solving the problem in this area are a priority for the Ministry of Health. We have also committed ourselves to this in the Resolution on the National Health Plan – Together for the Health Society – to ensure the effectiveness of monitoring waiting periods and transparent placement on waiting lists and additional funding in the event of a reasonable increase in needs. We have stressed that we will upgrade the system to manage unjustified travel and listing and introduce an information system that will support the work of doctors and other healthcare professionals in their decisions on the course of treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Matjaž Hanžek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u92	Waiting times in the health system are a serious and complex problem, but no problem is so complex that it cannot be solved if you know the causes and if you have the political will to address these causes. The main reasons for the waiting period are the wrong planning of staff and the lack of funding. The most responsible for the planning of personnel is the Medical Chamber, which calls for the specialisation of doctors, which is responsible for funding each time a coalition that plans and divides public revenues. So these are the causes and responsible actors. This brings us political will. Since the restoration of capitalism in Slovenia, no coalition has wanted to eliminate the monopoly of the Medical Chamber in the planning of specialization and in the licensing of doctors abroad. Nor has any coalition abolished supplementary health insurance, which is socially unfair and which exhausts health care. In short, no coalition wanted to cut into the interests of the medical lobby and in the interests of the insurance lobby. Not to be mistaken; I do not accuse health professionals and doctors at all, but a minority of the management of health organizations, who, with the financial support of the American Chamber of Commerce and the Insurance Association of Slovenia, advocates that the health system be mostly private and that health insurance is commercial. The management of these organisations advocates a system whereby both health service providers and health service financiers would require a certain margin. This margin would make the money for services even less than it is now. How this system works, we see in the case of supplementary health insurance. Commercial insurance companies spend a lot of money on marketing, on capital reserves, on the high salaries of managers and on profits. Therefore, of the 470 million supplementary insurance premiums paid by the inhabitants, 60 million remain in the insurance companies. If the coalition gives in to an insurance lobby that wants to extend commercial insurance to compulsory insurance, we will approach the American health model at two speeds; one for the rich and the other for the others. Compared: The United States spends almost $9 000 500 per capita for health and in Slovenia spends just over $2000 per capita. Not to mention the difference in material prosperity. Nevertheless, our life expectancy is one year longer than in the United States. The life expectancy, however, is an indicator of public health, which, of course, is influenced not only by the health system, but by everything else. Not to mention 40 million Americans without adequate insurance against which many lobbyists, although I speak of America, resist. As I said before, no coalition has touched the interests of the medical and insurance lobby. The difference between the right and the current coalition of the modern centre is only that the government in the coalition agreement has actually promised to reduce the powers of the Medical Chamber and to replace supplementary insurance with public pay. According to our assessment, the weak link is not as much the Minister of Health as the coalition partners. Nor did the candidate for the new finance minister promise to abolish the supplementary insurance, as we know, and Prime Minister Cerar has never confirmed that the government would abolish the supplementary insurance. Surely, however, the Minister made a huge mistake not to associate herself with those organisations which are in their best interest to abolish supplementary insurance, and these are trade unions. I hope this mistake is yet to be rectified. In certain sectors waiting types are due to lack of doctors and generally lack of resources. The system solution is therefore to limit concessions and transfer the decision on specialisations away from cecho organisations. The means of payment of services would be increased by introducing a public benefit instead of supplementary insurance. The funds for the purchase of equipment would be obtained by increasing the budget of the Ministry of Health, which, of course, cannot be achieved by a tax relief of 7.4% of the best paid in the country that the coalition has just adopted, but only by solidarity taxation of high incomes, in particular from capital, wealth of great value and profits. There are no long-term guidelines for improving public health in these recommendations. In Slovenia we have been preparing a health reform for a quarter of a century, in normal countries this requires between 5 and 10 years of time, and the problem is that every government begins again without a comprehensive view of human health and what health affects. Part of such a view is also a health system that is important for health, but not the only one. In this confusion without a development concept, every minister is thrown into battle between various lobbyists who are concerned only with their narrow interests. This is also one of the main causes for waiting species. The recommendations also contain a number of inaccurate indications that discredit the public health system and prepare the territory for privatisation, which has made the lives of our people significantly worse. The Ministry responded to these misstatements regarding the actions of the appointed waiting periods. I would just add that there are a lot of people on the waiting lists who are effectively enrolled, sometimes 50% of those who don't want to or can't intervene when they're called. Some want a specific doctor, and the species review is increasing, so the data is higher. As far as it is concerned, the funding for the health system needs to be increased, I can say that the applicant speaks one way and works the other way around. As far as I am aware, the SDS does not support the abolition of supplementary insurance and the introduction of a public benefit. Fides also publicly opposes this. Therefore, the applicants do not want the EUR 60 million that remains to be diverted to public health by insurance companies. In this way, by the way, the taxation of the economy would not increase by a cent. At the same time, you would be reminded that the SDS this year supported the novel proposed by Nova Slovenija, the Social Security Contributions Act. With a social cap, the Ministry of Finance estimates that 338 million euros per year would be lost from around 2 billion, almost slightly above 15%. This would reduce public funds radically, not increase. More and more payments would be made from the pockets of individuals. In doing so, I would point out once again to the coalition, and in particular to the Minister, that it must be linked to organisations that support the abolition of supplementary insurance. You have an organized coalition of medical organizations and commercial insurance companies that are financially supported, as I said, by the American Chamber of Commerce and the association of pharmaceutical multinationals. They also finance research by Professor Secretary at the Faculty of Economics. That's why you need active support from union headquarters. The Minister may recall that she has already been publicly invited by the trade unions in May to include them in the preparation of the reform in the initial phase, and you insist that you include them only after the law has been sent to the public debate. By then, the concepts will be complete and there will be only 30 days for comments. Then it will certainly be a real blow by the medical and insurance lobby, as it was last autumn due to restrictive concessions with the amendment of the Health Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Hanzek. Parliamentary Group New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Her position will be presented by Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u94	Dear colleagues and colleagues and distinguished Madam Secretary of State, the situation in the Slovenian health system – we do not need to repeat, but still – it is very serious. For more than a decade, many problems have accumulated, and the real solutions, I am sure, despite sincere efforts, are still not on the horizon. Because it is not a solution, citizens and citizens as well as healthcare professionals are losing their patience, their trust. In this case, it's justified. Waiting Times — What Is the Key or What We Can Oppress? Right above the fact that there is injustice. For we do not get what we deserve for the money we pay to our citizens in the health register. People with their modest savings actually spend their first visits on private professionals because they do not come on time in the public network. As a result, this system is very unfair, as we know it today. In this existing healthcare system no one feels well; neither users nor providers of health services. Therefore, for the money we pay into the health treasury that we place in the healthcare system, we do not get in essence a timely or rapid check, a rapid supply, one that would, of course, be justified in this money. The health system, as it is today, is not functioning and is becoming, as we have seen, increasingly dangerous for both citizens and healthcare professionals. Unfortunately, patients also die because they do not receive timely medical examinations and interventions. The consequences of waiting periods are: worsening health status and increasing the risk of permanent consequences and death of patients, unequal treatment of patients in access to health services, economic damage, safety risk for healthcare providers. In addition to being threatened by waiting periods and species which, I agree with the Secretary of State, are also present in all other developed countries of the European Union, but not as much as in Slovenia, there is economic damage. It is also coincidental to take into account the cost of the state budget, the cost of employers and the cost of self-employed persons. How much money do we lose because we don't have a proper health system? And the figures, at least as far as the state budget and the ZZS are concerned, are moving around about €90 million. The fact is that waiting periods, for the first time, are the result of irregularities and, secondly, lack of money. Finally, in this country, we will have to agree on what our abilities are, what we can pay. What are our abilities? We don't have this clear line right now, but we're just promising to pay for everything, but we can't do that. And then there's a long waiting period or a lack of funding. In Novi Slovenija, on the basis of data, we find that waiting periods have increased significantly during the management of the function of Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc. That's not fictitious data. These data are officially published at the National Institute for Health Protection. In fact, from the beginning of the function, it is September 2014 to 1. 8. 2016 has increased from 37% to 63%, despite what we have heard before, to a strong effort made by the Ministry of Health to reduce waiting periods. But it is difficult to talk about effective action if, in fact, waiting periods increase in two years so enormously. Let me remind you that last year, or this year, the President of the Government said: "The effects of waiting periods will be known within two months, and by autumn at the latest." Now we're talking about the end of the year, we're talking about the next year, and the waiting periods are extending from month to month, unfortunately. I reiterate, however, the structure needs to be regulated, the system needs to be regulated, and financial resources need to be increased. The measures presented by the Minister of Health on 20 June 2016, i.e. this year, are also insufficient, as they represent only a modest 3% and a 3% reduction in waiting periods. Therefore, this financial support for the reduction of the waiting period of almost €8 million represents only a 3% reduction. That's too little. It is too small, thankful, but too little for citizens and citizens to feel it on their own. In our opinion, the Minister of Health has not prepared those key and relevant legislation or amended the Regulation on maximum waiting periods for individual health services and on the way in which waiting lists are managed, which is solely within its competence. And here we are in violation of a number of laws, and above all we are doing, as I have said, injustice to people. In New Slovenia, we will make every effort to help reduce waiting lines. We have also supported these proposed recommendations on the Committee and, even today, although we do not vote on them, we call for support, for action to change legislation, which would mean that people will be treated earlier by doctors and thus have a healthy health system. For, I emphasize, citizens and citizens deserve this. If we pay something in, then we expect quality services on the other hand, fast service, but not waiting for this money for months and even years. Here in this hall present, I am sure that when we go to the doctor and get a warning that we will be in line for a special checkup in six months or one year from now, we can afford to knock or call a private person and get a service within one week. Those with minimum wage or pensioners can't afford it. This, unfortunately, makes our public health system unfair and unworthy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The problems in health care are and have accumulated for many years, waiting times are and always will be, that is a fact, but the fact that they have increased enormously and unacceptably over the last two years. But people from this government, unfortunately, have no other choice but to promise. Not today's debate or the interpellation will not improve the health situation. Just knowing the coalition that the situation is alarming and that there is a need for change in the management of the station can only save health care. Clearly, this awareness in the coalition is not yet in spite of the alarming data that we all have before us. The number of those who have been inadvertently waiting for an inspection or intervention is close to 40,000, 40,000 waiting longer than would have been permissible. Do you know how much that is? This is more than the population of Novo mesto, and this is an entire municipality. I will allow myself another parable, that is as many as these people would line up with each other and this species would be long from Kranj to Ljubljana. From Kranj to Ljubljana! Can you imagine that?Oh, my God! However, taking into account all the things that are ahead of us, this can be illustrated by the Municipality of Maribor, which is the second largest Slovenian congregation. As many people as this municipality has, so many people are waiting for treatment in Slovenian health care and if all these people were to line up next to each other, this kind of debt would be from Ljubljana to Celje. From Ljubljana to Celje. The fact is that we cannot and must not assign responsibility to this government, even less to this minister. But it is the responsibility of this government and this minister that nothing has moved any further in two years, things are only getting worse. Everyone before this government and this minister, including me and us, could do more in the field of health. But – at least we added something small to the right direction. In the most difficult financial year 2013, we found additional funds and acted urgently, not most systemicly, but we did. In the last two years, things have only gone from worse to worse. As I said, the fact that we cannot and cannot do all this and we do not want to attribute it to this minister or to this government; the second fact that the types of waiting that I have talked about in recent years have been extended in the last two years. And this huge, by more than 30%, almost half of it was mentioned earlier. I'll also try to zoom in visually. Two years ago, when we led the government, people, if they line up with each other, people waiting for medical interventions, those with unacceptable waiting lines, would stand in line, which would be long from Kranj to Medvod, today this kind of debt to Ljubljana. I'm going to go down a few more numbers that show the relationship of this government to health. I spoke to a doctor who told me that in August 40 patients had written a report saying that they urgently needed surgery, but unfortunately they couldn't tell them when they were going to get this surgery. To let them know at the beginning of next year how things are going to go. All these patients are, of course, at home, on sick leave, at the expense of the insurance company. From this point of view, for the average Slovenian or average Slovenian employee, it means that the Health Insurance Office gives EUR 1 000 per month for his sick person. For 40 people, that means €48 000. And since they will be waiting for the intervention at least until January 2017, that means 7 months. When we add this up, the cost or price for the insurance company for these 40 people who are on sick leave is EUR 336 000. And that's information for only one doctor! How many interventions are there, and how much can we reduce waiting lines with this money, ladies from the Ministry of Health?Oh, my God! Another worrying piece of information. In this year's budget, you will spend 40 million less on health than we did in 2013. In the financial most difficult year of 2013, we gave in health care 40 million more from the state budget than you will this year. Even more, you will not spend what has been adopted here in the National Health Council. The National Health Assembly has earmarked €78 million for health care, and you have written in a report on the implementation of the budget, endorsed by the Government and received in the National Assembly, that 78 million is too much and that you will only need 65 by the end of the year. This is a government document and it is very sad that even what this National Assembly has given you, you don't know, you don't, you can't, you can't spend. In the absence of money, you do not even know how to spend what the National Assembly has given to health care. It's not about us, it's not about the National Assembly, it's about people. Therefore, the well-respected coalition, I hope that you will overlook as soon as possible and realize that there is a need for change now. A beautiful autumn day, a good company, a constructive conversation was held yesterday by the Minister at the Extraordinary Assembly of the Medical Chamber. Today too is a beautiful autumn day, even today we are in as good a society as we are, the conversation will be somewhat less constructive, but unfortunately it is not enough for changes that are more than necessary in health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u98	Dear Prime Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! I will allow myself to start by simplifying this very seriously whether we have waiting periods in Slovenia. It's clear he's got them. Are these waiting periods too long? For everyone on the waiting list, these times are undoubtedly too long. Whether all these entitlements to criticism to too long waiting periods are justified on a case-by-case basis, of course, is a matter of discussion. Is this government aware of the problems of waiting days? Absolutely! Has this government done anything about it? Absolutely! Is this government going to do anything about it? Absolutely! Now, of course, the emergence of such long waiting periods has several reasons that have already been said, more will be said in the debate and that is why I will not go further in this place. We are pleased that, as I have already said, the ministry has taken an active approach to solving this problem both through short-term measures concerning financial injections to address this problem and for exploitation, as well as organisational ones, because we know that only money will not solve this problem. These are, of course, short-term measures. They won't be enough, they can repeat themselves, and they'll probably have to repeat themselves, but they won't solve this situation themselves. Therefore, legislation will, of course, need to be amended further, part of this legislation is already in the process, part of coming by the end of the year, this legislation will also allow an operational platform for the implementation of all the necessary measures, and ultimately it will not go without additional money. Here too the Ministry of Health is very active in this direction, it has proposed some new solutions that we have not yet known in our country, including the so-called tobacco cent, which will bring 65 million to health, and the sum of all these measures will undoubtedly result in a substantial reduction in waiting periods. Is it possible that waiting days will be no more days, one day? It's not possible because it's not possible anywhere in the world. Even in the most developed countries, the richest countries are waiting days. Perhaps longer than in Slovenia, depending on the social and financial position of the individual. This is not the case in Slovenia because we all have the same rights and equal accessibility. This accessibility is the same for all, regardless of their social status, and this is the advantage of the Slovenian system, which they do not know abroad and would like to have in many ways. We have already rejected the SDS' recommendation regarding waiting periods at the parental committee's meeting, and we have reasoned on why we are throwing it up. Today, of course, we will run another round and talk about it again, so that I am done here, and more then in the debate between my colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Zorman. The positions of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be moved by Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! In June, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we made a recommendation in the procedure concerning the issue of extending waiting periods in Slovenian health care, and with this recommendation we wanted to draw attention to the deteriorating situation in relation to waiting periods. There is no doubt that the Slovenian health system needs major changes, and the objective of all changes must be based on an improvement of the health system, which will allow all citizens to have equal, I stress, equal access to health care. The needs of citizens or patients must become the centre of the healthcare system again, while the money must follow the patient and not the other way around, to follow the money, as it is supposed to finance the paediatric emergency centres. In Slovenia, we spend about €3.2 billion per year for health care and contribute 2.4 billion from supplementary health insurance, 400 million from private pockets and 400 million from private pockets. Only 3% of the funds are allocated from the State budget, which is the lowest rate between the EU Member States and the OECD. It is interesting that you coalition parties are, of course, unhappy with the work of your Minister of Health, but you still support and wait for it, waiting like a waiting line, for some miraculous changes that the Minister promises to prepare, this time until the new year. Yeah. And, of course, we, too, have been waiting here in the National Assembly for more than two years to make some necessary changes, which, of course, should thoroughly cut into this health system of ours. What will mark the work of this Minister is that, in this mandate, the Minister of Health will undoubtedly have a long waiting line and these waiting types have increased by more than 30% during its management, as has been heard today. This year, 246,000 patients waited for medical examination, investigation or surgery. And notice, there are no waiting ones in this number waiting in line for dental services. So 246,000 patients are waiting for a reception, and this, dear fellow Members, means, every eighth Slovenian, so every eighth Slovenian is standing in one or waiting in some waiting line for an examination or intervention. As reported by the media, I will say for myself, so many waiting patients is a disaster for the country, such as a flood disaster or a stomach. The waiting types will not shorten analyses, resolutions, pilot projects, protocols and human resources exchanges. Action is needed without waiting. It is true that, according to the former V.D. Director of the Department of Health Insurance, 120 million euros would be needed to eliminate waiting lines. The Institute of Health Care, of course, wanted its surplus of 60 million in 2015 to be earmarked for the elimination of waiting species and, of course, the Government intended the main surplus available in the cash register to increase the prices of health services or to distribute it to the health service in the form of a recognised increase in the prices of services. Well, it is true that from this surplus the government has earmarked 7.9 million for selected interventions and 8 million for first reviews. If I stop here at selected interventions, these interventions are, in my opinion, contrary to the Constitution, which states that the country is obliged to provide a fair and accessible health system for every citizen; I stress that to every citizen. The improvement of the health system, which is a key priority of this government, is unfortunately, I will say, in the waiting line as well as our patients. The government states that improving the health system is a key priority for this government. Look, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health said on the TV show Tarča, quote, "our health system is universal, accessible, solidarity and fair and we must keep it as it is." Now, in view of this statement, I expect that the waiting list of government priorities and not only waiting types of patients will be greatly extended, not only by the new year, but also probably by the end of this government's mandate. Of course, we can say that the Ministry of Health's priority in this first half of its mandate was mainly staffing. In the waiting line at the Ministry are corruption, norms and standards, public network, competitiveness, responsibility, payment of programmes after services performed; in short, systemic changes. Citizens can only wish that this waiting period of fundamental changes prepared by the Ministry will not reach within five hundred days, as it does for seizures and waiting periods of cramped veins. Long waiting species also have a reliable impact on the increase of the hospital stock. According to the Health Insurance Office, the cost of the hospital stock for more than 30 days increased by 19 million last year. Of course, this includes the costs of employers who pay sick workers for the first 30 days. Or if you want to be different; see, statistics show that during last year about 37,000 employees or patients were employed in the hospital stock every day, 57,000 employees or patients this year. It is said that last year 37 thousand this year 57 thousand, and many of these patients are also in the hospital stock because they waited too long in the waiting line. Of course, this money, which is intended to compensate for the absence of a hospital or is intended by the insurance company, could also eliminate a good portion of the waiting line. Also a warning, employees with an average monthly salary, together with their employer, pay for compulsory health insurance of up to 200 euros – every month 200 euros – and about 28 euros per month for supplementary health insurance. I now ask here whether citizens really do not deserve health care as provided for by the Constitution. Once again, my dear colleagues, the Constitution stipulates that the state is obliged to ensure fair and accessible health care for every citizen. The Constitution also makes no distinction between citizens of Slovenia and migrants. And yet this is happening, of course, for the benefit of migrants. This year, the Ministry of Health carried out an analysis of health services which, on the basis of different sources, found that additional action is needed to reduce waiting periods. I ask you again, dear colleagues, Members, do you really think that in view of the alarming situation in the area of waiting times, it was really necessary to carry out an analysis that concluded that further action was needed to reduce waiting periods? As previously said by colleague Jelka, all sparrows on the branches chirp that the long waiting periods of rakra are precisely this Slovenian health care. Now, as the ministry has already said, it needed analysis to find out. Here, I am reluctantly asked how much funding the Ministry has earmarked for this analysis. At least we can hope that the Ministry's analysis did not allow you to work for any foreign institutions. All these long waiting lines undoubtedly cause great dissatisfaction both in the profession, which is good and belongs to the world summit itself, as well as to the dissatisfaction of our citizens. As a result, our patients are to be treated abroad and also to go to work abroad by our doctors. Many of those waiting, waiting — I will say — wait too long in some waiting line, decide and pay for themselves from their own pocket a health service, of course with a private. Undoubtedly, the long waiting lines lead to an increased risk of treatment, higher treatment costs, longer absences from work, longer and, of course, more difficult rehabilitations and a worsening of the health status of patients and, lastly, of all our citizens. So we also encountered the issue of long waiting species on the Health Board. Unfortunately, at this meeting we wanted or made a recommendation on how to reduce waiting periods in Slovenian health care. With regard to this recommendation, we have proposed that the Ministry should do its utmost to reduce waiting lines, of course, as soon as possible, and that within three months the Ministry should report to the Home Committee on the Ministry's activities in this area. But, Your Honor, I don't understand today that you were against our recommendations. Now understand if you can. So, let me finish. In the long line of waiting at the Ministry of Health are waiting for systemic changes, just as our citizens are waiting in the long line of waiting. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mrs. Brinovšek. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and by Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you very much again. Say good-bye to everyone again! As has already been said, the question of waiting days is essentially present in most countries, with the reasons being, of course, different. Some are common, such as the introduction of new treatment methods, the ageing of the population, including large informationization, the right people are familiar with new procedures and, of course, inevitably, until the health system is harmonised, teams are organised, no funding is provided, waiting periods usually occur at the beginning. By giving us the main reasons for such an enormous increase, surely there is somewhere else. There is virtually no government that does not deal with waiting periods in previous mandates, and I think it is relatively successful. In this way, waiting periods, such as heart surgery, gallstones, hernias, and some others, were eliminated. However, in our Group of Members, we believe that the current increase in waiting times, when the number of waiting has increased by more than 30% in just the last two years, is indeed unsustainable and requires immediate action. We are aware that it is also inappropriate to record the waiting ones, and we believe that only the e-Procurement project will show the real picture and thus make it easier to set the priority in which it is necessary, but in view of the health situation of the patients, to act first. Among the main reasons for such a situation in Slovenia, there is no doubt that there is a shortage of doctors on the one hand – you know that by the number of doctors on the tail in the European Community – and, on the other hand, the increase in needs and, above all, the lack of money. I practically do not know a system in this country that would work in certain areas either in certain products, services or without payment. I think the only thing that's been going on for years is health. The latter has led public health care to a point where rights in public health are in reality threatened and increasingly only the letter on paper, which we cannot accept. It is also true that in health care all these treatments, exceeding the programmes, usually 3 to 4%, occur mainly at the end of the patients. We expect the Ministry of Health to prepare effective short- and long-term measures to reduce waiting periods, some have been listed and, of course, I believe they will be successful. While it is unacceptable to close your eyes to the fact that too long of waiting periods threaten and aggravate the health status of the population. During the systemic solutions in our Group, we expect the Ministry of Health to prepare a new Health and Health Insurance Act without delay, which will identify new resources and also a way of financing health. In fact, inadequate and insufficient funding is one that today poses the greatest threat to the functioning of the public health system and if we want to undermine this public health system and our patients, then we will continue to maintain the current state without change, otherwise we will approach those measures that are urgently needed and prioritized. Today’s problems, as a result of this condition, are causing severe distress to healthcare professionals and patients as well. Patients are therefore looking for solutions to their health problems increasingly abroad, especially those who can afford it. In addition, many doctors can easily find a job in countries where the importance of health care is more aware than in our country. We therefore expect immediate action, or we will lose the battle for accessible and quality public health very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar. And the last position of the SD Group Ambassador, Mag for her. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In response to the question, which are the main weaknesses of Slovenian health, residents put waiting periods first. Some of the reasons lie in limited resources and human resources, but the successes we have witnessed this week are not always the main factor. The absence of incentives, the poor organisation, the slow introduction of payment methods, the lack of productivity concerns and the lack of concern for the priorities of payer-executor contracts are also a very important factor. Waiting days are a big problem, that's a fact. According to some data, we have over 250 000 or even some data 500,000 waiting for one of the health services in the public health service. We do not know all the things ahead because we do not monitor all the waiting times and the number of waiting for all the services, which is clearly an indicator of the bad functioning of our system. But we can be even more concerned if we know the process of treating patients, as waiting periods and the number of waiting ones need to be calculated. The patient thus waits first for treatment with a specialist, for example 700 days, then for treatment for a diagnostic service again 250 days and if there is still a need for surgery about 500 days. Together, the patient can hypothetically wait 4 years. Thus, every eight inhabitants of Slovenia are in the waiting lines. However, the number of pending figures from the National Institute for Public Health has increased by as much as 10% in the last year. It's worrying for us. Currently, 32 thousand 396 pending sick people are unacceptably awaiting a first examination, investigation, or surgery. Among the 246 thousand 459 patients, 131 thousand 167 and 53% are waiting for their first outpatient examination, 70 thousand 677 and 29% for the investigation, and 44 thousand 615 and 18% for the operation. Long waiting periods also have a positive impact on the extension of the hospital stock. According to data from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, costs for the hospital stock for more than 30 days increased by 19 million euros in 2015 and 9% respectively. We must also include the employer's costs for the first 30 days. We believe that this money could eliminate a good part of the waiting lines. We advocate an effective, high-quality, responsive, sustainable healthcare system for all, based on tradition, solidarity, reciprocity and justice, aimed at preventing and early detection of diseases and particularly effective treatment. Such a health system is one of the foundations of the social state for us. Social Democrats are aware of the problems of waiting times and how devastating their impact on public health is. Access to health services and, above all, timeliness are fundamental requirements that I have to meet or that must be met by the public health system if we are to talk about it as effective. If we understand the reform as changes that constitute an end to existing practices, then the Slovenian health system needs a comprehensive reform. We must be aware that maintaining the status quo is a threat to the collapse of the public health system. The current healthcare system gradually creates two health systems that separate citizens from two groups; those that enable them to provide the necessary services against payment and those that cannot and do not come to them or wait so long for them to harm their health. It's unacceptable for the Social Democrats. We all need to be able to meet our needs for quality and timely health care independently of our material situation. Social Democrats are also insisting that a clear gap between public and private health activities be drawn. Privatisation of the healthcare system and equalization of public and private health care lead to unequal treatment of patients. This means unequal quality of patients according to the patient’s social situation and unequal accessibility. We therefore reject initiatives to ensure that the public system provides basic health care to the less-favoured and disadvantaged segments of the population, while the parallel private system would provide better opportunities for the wealthier groups. It just doesn't work. When it comes to health issues, we must have equal opportunities for all people. However, the same options for maintaining and improving health can only provide an accessible and quality public health system. We therefore need to provide adequate public health funding and improve accessibility to health care. Waiting for examination by a specialist should be reduced to less than one month and waiting for an examination with magnetic resonance and hip or knee surgery under three months. Other essential health services should also be provided for the shortest period of time. We are aware that the problems that have accumulated for at least two decades will not be solved overnight, nor in one year. Also because there may be an interest group somewhere in this situation, unfortunately, the patient’s armada fits because they have or have a lot of self - payers. We may also find within this group one who does everything to make this armada of patients even bigger, to blacken public health care and to glorify it privately. Social Democrats don't agree to that. Human health cannot be marketable goods, and we will continue to fight this with determination. That is why, Madam Minister, we appeal to you by the Social Democrats: it is high time for change this year! Lack of money must not be an excuse to be too long a waiting period, no patient must die because of this, so it is necessary to finance waiting periods as much as possible and to provide accessible and quality public health care for all as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mursich. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Allow me to give Mrs Jelka Godec the floor before we proceed and give the floor to Mr Janko Webr, as representative of the proposer. Here you go, Mrs. Godec, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I must say that in view of the debates of the parliamentary groups or the presentation of positions, I am surprised that the Minister has such support in the government. Indeed, all coalition parties, except of course SMC, have appealed either between the lines or specifically with the words: I appeal to the minister to do something, and today. I don't really understand this coalition anymore, which supports the Minister, who notes that the Ministry of Health has done too little not to act quickly enough, calls on the Minister, also through the questions sent, which I am accompanying by the coalition colleagues of Members and coalition parties, to call on the Minister also with questions from the Member States when legislation will be resolved. But the minister enjoys the support, even if we leave her until the new year, until the new year, then if it doesn't work out, then we'll ask the Prime Minister to suspend her. For six months we will extend the agony of this Slovenian health system. Today I think that coordination in the government, or the top of the coalition, or whatever or the government that talks about it – I think that's how I saw it in the media. I say again, if you have so much to say in the field of health, then I don't know how this ministry can, this minister has support in the government. So it's just about keeping the government, peace in the government, then. When you said that you are advocating public health – I think I will stress again, a handful of us who are here, and citizens want to have quality public health. Since it is not in Slovenia, it is not quality, it is not accessible, the private sector is already today. It's already today. Why? Since in the public sector, as you have responded, they do not come in line in public health, they go on a self-paying basis. That's the problem now. Why is private health getting rich? Not because in the National Assembly, one political party would say two, three, that we should have private health care. Because we don't have quality available public health. That's why private people get rich because there's chaos in public health. That's why private people get rich, so private people take advantage, not all of them, but because you just don't get a chance in public health, it goes to the private. But who can go? One who can afford it. There's discrimination. And you say: for all equally accessible public health care. Well, don't be silly. It's not as accessible. Those who can afford or afford to go to a private place. Most Slovenians can't afford it and wait in line. All the contributions that were in the media, on various televisions, I did not hear one patient say he was satisfied that it was his turn — I am not speaking now, but in due course — I did not hear. You're saying there's a problem everywhere in the world. Yes, of course they are, because there are waiting periods everywhere. But not for three years! For four months in Slovenia, England for four weeks, in Germany for six weeks. Well, then, I think I was saying the last time, for a knee surgery in our house for 700 days in the Jesenicas. The waiting time, which is the shortest, is 120 days, abroad – Danci, Irish, Spanish – the longest waiting period. Don't tell people everywhere the waiting time is the same, there are problems everywhere! Yes, once again, there are waiting periods, but not two years, not three years. Not six years for an orthodontist to enter the system — two years for an orthodontist — two years and six years for a permanent device! Child, 8 years of age, 6 years of age. Now calculate how many years this is — 14 years! And if the dentist happens to say too late that you should go to the orthodontist, you come to the 16-year-old group when the machine is no longer free; and the permanent apparatus costs 3 000 200 euros. Who in Slovenia in public health will give you this? Nobody. You're going to the private. Who can afford that? The one with the money. We don't have the same affordable public health care and don't fool people here because it's not true! Waiting for thyroid pain, thyroid ultrasound with pain, is three months. With the pain of taking two laadoles at six o’clock, that’s the least he can take. Three months with pain. He can't go to work. He can't function at home. He's been in bed for three months waiting for a checkup. Those who can afford to do so pick up the phone, call a private doctor — in three days it is their turn. That's why private health is getting rich. That's what's wrong. In the first place. Reduction of waiting periods with money – yes, of course, we listened today but also at the Medical Chamber yesterday; of course, okay, money is needed – but not only that, probably not. Today's newspaper Finance says that the minister will either make 35 million in the next year, and then, I apologize, 49 million. How many hospital losses are there? What are you gonna cover for this? The UKC Ljubljana itself has 12 million in a half-year of loss, says that on account of having done more services than they are being paid. So it's also good to say what exactly this money is going to be spent on, where it's going to be spent, what's going to be the results, or with that money, with those 7.9 million of yours, are we really going to shorten the waiting periods, or is that just that drop of water on fire? And I'll tell you again that this is discriminatory. You can say anything to keep the patient waiting for surgery, but tell the patients that they tell me why I have to wait three years, but you'll pay them to come straight to surgery for the shoulder. They're dissatisfied patients. They're dissatisfied doctors. Especially the doctors who burned, the apathetic, I don't know what we've been listening to. I believe them. Even if you were a doctor and you had as many patients as you have every day. We've also heard up to 60 patients. And you have to explain to your patients why you can't talk to him for half an hour or ten minutes. Then tell me, how are you going to shorten your waiting hours with this money? So will you give money, or will you have additional doctors, extra hours for these doctors, for these overloaded doctors? This is the question of anyone who has concerns because if doctors say they are overloaded – how will they help reduce waiting periods? So the question is, are you going to fund new programs with this money, new doctors? What's going to happen to that money, exactly? I'm here for the public sector to raise wages, and it's going to be 327 million. So much for the relationship and what's the government's priority. I hope that these new so many and so many millions to the Ministry of Health are not buying coalition peace. I only hope that in six months or December – because, on the one hand, it is better for the Minister to have time by December – that the Minister will then come with concrete proposals, not millions, with concrete systemic proposals, changes in public health and not by abolishing concessions, because concessions are part of public health, they are in the public health network and this is not private health, which is not the case in the media, and this is not the case for private concessions. Concessions are part of public health; they are the added value of public health. Many, if there were no concessionaires, would have been even longer waiting species, people wouldn't have a doctor in certain places. This bothers because certain parties, certain people in the National Assembly also talk about concessionaires as something bad, like individuals who put in their pockets and don't know what. They are part of public health and must be treated equally by concessionaires and public health by law. I think that's even what my colleague at SMC, Member of Parliament, said the last time. Concessionaires must be treated equally. If the Minister is not with us today, I would like to know where these millions will go, for what purposes, how will they be used – more doctors, more programmes, new specialists, training staff – what will these things be about? But you're all talking about some other interest groups in health care. That's what everyone in the National Assembly says. Tell us again what are these stakeholders who are blocking the establishment of a quality public health system in Slovenia! Who are these interest groups? I'm really interested. What do these interest groups do, what do they do? Do they tell you how to make changes in your health? What are essentially these interest groups? I've heard today, I think in two presentations of views, of interest groups. I would like to ask for an answer, especially where these millions are going, that we will not then say within a year that they have gone to the interest groups and that waiting periods will preferably be at the same level as they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Godec. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I think it is indisputable that the waiting periods in Slovenia are unacceptably long, catastrophically long, and that we must react immediately to this situation. When we analyze this situation, we find that it is part of the problem within the health system itself, but it is also part of the problem within the whole structure of the country or the management and management of the country as a whole. In fact, when we look at the data, a drastic increase in waiting periods has also occurred with the emergence of an economic and financial crisis and with the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, which has drastically reduced funds for public spending. I would like to point out once again how important it is to monitor both the operations of banks and those which are, of course, an important service for the economy, economic growth, gross social product, as a result of the budget charging and the provision of public services. The fact is that the banking system and, as a result, the economy went hand in hand with overheating before the financial crisis, when banks and economies were in debt abroad under very favourable conditions when the economic crisis occurred, there was a breakdown of the banking system and a very large economic problem and consequently a health problem, even if we focus today. When you really analyze these data collected by the state-of-the-art experts, it's a frightening information that, say, a patient waiting for a 700-day treatment with a specialist, then for a 250-day treatment, then for an operational procedure, say, 500 days, you can actually wait four years for that before you complete the cycle of appropriate medical treatment. Therefore, it is no surprise that people in Slovenia also die because of this and that this is unacceptable what is happening to us in this area. Therefore, one of the reactions from my initiative to reduce waiting periods to a maximum of 90 days, and even with some simple measures, we can actually try to achieve this. One of the first things the Government should actually accept is the reallocation of funds, including within the budget reserve, is money that could be given to health immediately. Of course, it is also possible to redistribute certain funds from other items that are not as vital, if I may say so as is human health, and would immediately have an effect in mitigating these consequences. But the consequences are really very severe, because the longer you wait for treatment, the health situation is getting worse for you, the longer you are in the hospital stock, the higher the cost for the health department, the higher the cost for the employer, and the more you add all that up, the fact is, this need for funds due to too long waiting hours is very high. If we were to take an immediate decision today to allocate 30 million from the budget reserve by redistributing 20 to treat patients, of course we would get the funds back into the budget also through increased productivity of enterprises, through lower costs in the hospital and so on. Clearly, this feeling cannot be viewed carefully with regard to the use of public funds. The health system itself cannot function as itself. I stress that the country as a whole must function so that we can then provide all services as we should. And yet I think it is necessary to say honestly and realistically that, in these two years, the government has allocated more resources for costs in health services, i.e. the price of health services has increased, and thus, of course, the volume of services provided has also decreased, as more funds have been allocated for costs, and this is one of the measures that has also led to a larger, longer waiting period within the system itself during this period. According to the data that we have at our disposal, we can see that with July 1st 2015, health service prices increased by 16 million and then an additional 14 million to increase depreciation. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has pointed out that it is not advisable to give money to raise prices, but to finance programmes to reduce waiting periods. Thus, it must be acknowledged that these decisions did not go in the direction of human health, not in the direction of saving waiting periods, but in the direction of raising prices and servicing those who could have obtained something from these prices. The solutions that need to be sought during this period, in addition to what I have said – immediate funds from the budget reserve – are also in trying to keep patients waiting, say, in Isola too long for a service, but try to direct this service to, say, Koroška, Styria, Dolenjska, where the waiting time for the service is smaller. So we can do this with a small logistical measure and you can redistribute those who are waiting for this service in a particular environment to another location where this waiting period is smaller. I think it is extremely important, however, that we try to establish a central register in waiting rows. If you have this central register, then you can do what I said: you have an overview of the waiting ones and you can react oppositely to how you can reduce this waiting line by focusing where this species is shorter. At the same time, of course, this also means that each patient can have access to how long he will actually wait for this type and when he can be examined or intervened. So everyone should actually have an insight into how long they will wait for each service, and this is only possible if we organise a centralized examination of species in health. It is essential, of course, that if you want to do this to move from one location to another, you also have standards and standards. These should apply everywhere in Slovenia, across all institutions at the same level; in any institution you enter, you must get the same level of treatment. So these standards and standards really need to be adopted as soon as possible and then you have things arranged at all locations, just as people are actually expecting. The next measure, public procurement – at least what needs to be established within the healthcare system – is a public procurement system with one place for the entire health system. Even more successful, of course, if we do this for the country as a whole, but should now remain within the healthcare system. How can it be that, in the event that we have found that the venous braces in UKC Ljubljana are heavily overpaid, other institutions still buy these braces at significantly higher prices than it has been shown to be a real price? If you have a central mode of public procurement, this can't be happening. And this can be one of the measures that we can take in a very short time, and it is absolutely necessary to actually put it in place. The public procurement system is flawed when it operates every institution for itself, and there are these anomalies that I have highlighted. Of course, one of the important issues is how we have an organised health insurance system. Of course, the current two-pillar system means that we pay both compulsory health insurance and additional health insurance in particular, and in the end, no one knows exactly what you've paid for, what kind of service you belong to. On the other hand, you will find that, for example, insurance companies offering the possibility of insurance, additional health insurance, have profits of 60 million euros a year. So the money we're paying for this went to profit, not to human health, not to pay for services, but to the profits of insurance companies. It's a source that's unacceptable. Therefore, one of the reforms I am talking about is certainly to establish a single-pillar pay-out and end the payment of additional health insurance. In fact, if we take this period, let's say 20 years, as is the case in Slovenia, 60 million per year of profits, which are not about ensuring human health, even though they have paid for it, would be available EUR 1.2 billion in 20 years. This is already the amount by which we could say that Slovenia really has the best public health system. In this one-pillar system it is also then to clear the issue of the contribution rate, now it is 6,36%, if we raise this to 9% of the net gross salary, we also have a very clear amount that you get from an individual taxpayer to pay this contribution rate, and you have no intermediaries in the middle that would actually drain this money, and each individual would know exactly how much he has paid actually into this health allowance and when he will come, let's say, to deal with when he also needs help due to the deterioration of the health condition. These are measures that I do not think need to be specifically analysed or looked for some specific studies, but can be started in a very short time. If I can only suggest this in my mind, let's say the Pharmacy Act, which we are also trying to get into the procedure – whether it is reasonable that the profits in pharmacies created by their operations, with their market work, are also intended for infrastructure, for regulating roads and other matters, or whether it is better to stay within the healthcare system. This is also one of the resources already available and for which it will also have to be decided in the National Assembly in a short time, how we see the development of health activities within the pharmacy system as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare to apologize, Mrs Ludmila Novak, to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mrs Erika Dekleva. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u110	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! Health is one of the greatest values, and when we lose it, we all know that we have only one desire to heal as soon as possible; whether we or our loved ones. So when we talk about long waiting periods, we can't just talk about numbers, but we need to be aware that people are back here. People who suffer physically, who also suffer mentally, also their relatives, and that all of this also means a lot of money that they have to give to the sick, to the absence or to the businesses or to where we are employed, or to the health department. Well, they're people first, and then there's a lot of pressure back there, and then there's a lot of money in the end. If we have found that these waiting periods are increasing abnormally, it is imperative to act immediately, quickly, as soon as possible. But what do I hear from those involved in this system in the health system? That there is no hearing that there is no dialogue – now almost every party will have its own proposal for health reform, even in New Slovenia we have it, but unfortunately there is no hearing. We also find that there is no real dialogue. At the beginning of the year, I think we have asked the Minister to present our proposals and we have not received an answer, and I also hear the same from the Medical Chamber and some other stakeholders. So, if we have possible solutions, if there are even more of these proposals, more possible reforms, but we should look at what is best here, the minister should use this here, go to dialogue and not persist in her solutions and research. Yesterday, too, it was said at this congregation of the Medical Chamber that more money would be needed. Only more money – probably, more money will be needed, because there is also more need, because the age is increasing, so there will also be more needs, but only an increase in money will not be a solution if this money is not also used transparently and well. However, we have already pointed out several times here today, and it is known that public money is not always best used. In public institutions, it is probably not always the best thing to do, and when materials are obtained at such high prices and then compared with other countries, then we can only hold our heads. So not only is it not said where the money came from, whether the employers will pay more, or whether we will pay more from our pockets. So more will have to be paid, but then let this money be used transparently and deliberately. Of course, at such long waiting times, it is no wonder that people sometimes get torn apart by the film, as we say, and that doctors are also threatened and even killed, as we have seen recently. No wonder. I wonder whether there are even proposals before the Court of Human Rights for treatment within an unreasonable period of time – not only for an unreasonable trial, but also for treatment within an unreasonable period, which could cause death, and it is certain that we already have a number of such cases, or for mental pain because we know that from diagnosis, if this is severe, to intervention, at that time there are the most psychological problems, doubts, fear and so on. Well, I won't be surprised if we're about to have such lawsuits. Doctors are leaving, and not those who have barely studied, but those who have a wealth of experience who are in the best years that they could most give away; and we have good doctors, but if they do not have the opportunity, if we even interfere with them or not give them to earn with their knowledge, then such departures will be increasingly and I do not know whether we will then resolve this problem by importing doctors again; but it is not always said that those we consider to be the best qualified and best. I am sure that we have good doctors in Slovenia and should do everything possible to keep them. Well, when I visited a country years ago, I noticed that a lot of people there had very bad teeth, or they didn't even have them, and I wondered why. Yeah, that makes sense! Because they don't have the money to afford teeth. And this is also happening in Slovenia, even yesterday, we have heard that they are only pulling teeth while there is no more money so that those who cannot pay or because we are constantly paying; our employers are paying contributions, we are paying ourselves and we do not get what we need out of it. So the standard of citizens is known by people's teeth, and it will be sad if more and more people are without teeth. These recommendations, which are written here, I think we should all support and complement them, not just the opposition, but all Members, because when we listen to your debates, we are all aware of these problems more or less. This could also be an additional pressure to make a move and act a little faster. When I listened to a fellow Member of the Veber, it occurred to me that maybe he should get this resource because he knows how to solve things. But I have my doubts when I listened to my colleague Muršič, when she said that we had to maintain public health for the best, you would fight against the private. Look, this is how we destroy public health, and people have to go to private doctors to solve their problems. In Novi Slovenija we are in favour of maintaining the public health system, but to complete it, to perfect and also properly finance and organise it. However, we know that concessionaires are also part of public health and that they are actually complementing this offer. It is necessary to produce the basket of rights we have and clear rules between public and private. I hope that that pilot project you introduced, how the doctors are burdened, will also produce some results and then you will take appropriate action. I know that general doctors, especially in the countryside, are very burdensome. But the question is whether everyone in the hospital is equally burdened or where is the leap where our system could be improved. In another government, when I talked to certain health-care people in positions of responsibility, they said, yes, no, because in the government, every party wants its reform and is taking its own side. If the main interest or purpose of a party is to prevent all that is private, then it is difficult to get to the right solutions and the right rules. The main interest must be to improve human health, access to health services, timely action, and rational spending. That should be it. As good a service as possible, as much money for research as possible. We know that in some areas our doctors are among the best, but if they do not have the conditions for this, they will not be able to show this knowledge in Slovenia, but will go elsewhere. Unfortunately, then we meet new doctors in our infirmary, but we know they come from somewhere else, but they also solve our problem, which we can't solve otherwise. I was horrified to hear the lack of child doctors all the time. Children who are our future and invest so little in having enough children’s doctors. That's sad! Or they don't want to go where they're most needed. We have recommendations. We could complete them. Since they have been rejected, we will no longer vote on them, but also members of the government's parties should participate here and also put pressure on the Minister through recommendations. I know that when there's an interpolation on the program, although many would like to press the button to support it, you won't want the government to stay. And here we'd have a chance to give your opinion. This is our power to decide in Parliament by our vote, and by this we also tell what we want, what we want, what we expect. If we lose this opportunity, then we can only be dissatisfied with our decision when we have not pressed the right button at the right time. I support the recommendations. But I certainly want them to act as soon as possible, because this is about people. We have heard, waiting lines from Kranj to Ljubljana, but these are not cars in the waiting line, but people with major problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Novak. We continue with Mr. Marian Pojbič. Get ready for Mrs. Erika Dekleva and Marusz Škopac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I cannot get past this; I have listened to and listened to the debate here in the National Assembly, especially by the debate between the SD and their Members, but I must say that I support the debate by my colleague Gantar, as he has discussed, but at the same time I must point out that both of these two parties are practically in all governments I do not know how long ago. In all governments; and they have a definite responsibility for the health situation — the way it is. Perfect responsibility! And here to murmur and speak and try to, as I would say, appeal to the Minister to do what in the next period of time, I think it's funny that this is a mockery from our citizens and citizens, especially from patients, all those waiting in waiting periods. It's totally a joke. I am sure that if this coalition, both the government and Borut Pahor led it, and then Alenka Bratušek had done his job for two years now if, over a continuous period of time in these governments I was talking about, I think that the situation as it is now would not have been. Here I'm not saying that we, too, that year that we had the government in the middle of it, but that's essentially too small for us to do anything smart. And I think we've done a great deal at the time; reforms and so on. Look at what was adopted in one year during the time of the government that we had, and what was adopted now in the time of the government, when it is run by the SMC. I think and please, not with such debates here, those who are as responsible as possible for what is happening in the healthcare system, here complaining, crying and saying what should be done, because you have everything in your hands and you also have everything in your hands this time; and SMC and SD and Desus. You have scissors and linen in your hands. Why don't you do anything? Why? Why do you come here to the parliament to yamrat? You have your government, you have everything in your hands – but nothing, nothing and nothing. And this, waiting periods are increasing, by 6% in the last year. Not to mention numbers, for example, as mentioned in our recommendations, e.g. surgery of the veins – waiting period of 518 days. That's insane. I don't think that's absolutely right. For rheumatological outpatient period – waiting period 466 days, for hernia surgery in adults 220 days and so on could be listed. This is absurd, it is not in any European country and no one will tell me that, in no European country. At the last meeting of the Health Committee, where I was myself, the Minister said that this was a sort of normal story in all European countries. It's not normal because it's not normal because time is essential, essential for too long! And don't talk about public health. There is no right way in Slovenia for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Because we have those who can pay their fees and certain health services, and we have those who can't. And those who can't do that have to wait in line. What kind of equitable access is that, for everyone? For all citizens and citizens, what righteousness is this? For one 500 days, for another who can pay, a day or two or a few hours. What public health is this, I ask you, respected colleagues and colleagues, and how to impose on people the story that we have in Slovenia I do not know how good public health! No, we don't. It doesn't exist. That's what you're saying. And explain to people the right way why. One more thing, I cannot believe and simply, and I must say that I am extremely disappointed that all our recommendations have been rejected on the Health Committee. It is amazing that here in the National Assembly, with whatever we come for, with whatever recommendations we make, you reject everything. On the other hand, you're here complaining that the problem is this, this, this problem this, this problem this. My colleague, Ludmila Novak, said it well earlier, and we should have completed these recommendations by now, not by rejecting them all on the Health Committee. Then how can you tell me and all of Slovenia that you want to help or that you want to solve the problem of waiting times? How can you, on the one hand, reject all the recommendations that we have made, reject the coalition, and on the other hand speak only to try to get political votes in this way, and speak here, how everything is wrong and what needs to be done – and here you all know everything that needs to be done. On the committee, when we voted on this, you voted against the entire coalition. So, two faces. It's not fair, it's not right for me and it's unacceptable, and it happens all the time that these left-wing governments always have two faces. It goes against the elections, then you're willing to give up a lot of things, and before that, you're just looking at that and the only way to fill the pockets of those who help you to take power. That means corruption. I'll keep going. I have three key things to do, how we can get out of this situation. Three key things. It is the first, and the key to a complete problem is, a comprehensive health reform is not accepted. I think that's the key. In two years of the coalition's operation, to this point, as I said on the committee, so much has come to the National Assembly on the resolution of this issue from the Ministry, so much as I have shown there, I will show you once again, so much has come. She worked so well as a minister. That's so nice! From me and the SDS party, she's got nothing because she's done practically nothing! And then how can he have your support?Oh, my God! Second thing. This system needs a minimum of 200 million euros if we are to get the system in the right direction. The system needs a minimum of EUR 200 million. As my colleague previously presented and reported the data, she supported how this coalition and the government prepared the budget for 2017, 2018 and how many millions there are ready to solve this problem, it is clear what the interests and objectives of this coalition are and what their priorities are. That's what she said. Everything with the numbers was backed up. So, I think next year is about 30 million, and then 40 or something like that, or vice versa, I apologize because I don't know exactly what to think, but I think that something like this, but I can also look for a document that clearly records how many health systems they get in 2017 and how many in 2018. Now we need 200 million if we are to resolve the situation and the situation in the complete health system. I ask the coalition when it will speak one here, and then when budgets are prepared and budgets are adopted, another work is done. When are we going to find out here and say what we said we're going to do? The third thing that I personally consider to be one of the most important, however, is failure to act in the field of corruption in the healthcare system. Remember that lady I mentioned last time, Mrs. Chokl? Do you remember what she said? The minister was there deeply, insisting with all her weight that they would investigate the matter to the end. And what have they done, what have you done, what the Ministry has done so far, to this point? Nothing. Nothing! My dears, look at this interesting article, 2015, which I think is good to read, but this is UKC Ljubljana: Andrazu Kopač UKCL installed an assistant. Who's Simona Potočnik? Then if you read this, you're sick. But the key is something written here. It says this: Corruption is a loss, while similar waste of money through the window continues peacefully with many other materials in hospitals, who are once again groaning and crying over losses. In health care, if we clean up corruption in procurement, a lot of the loss of public health institutions would go off like a soap bubble. Respectable coalition, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! I'm very sorry the Minister isn't here because it's so sad that she's not here on important issues. When you read this, what Mrs Chokl said and so on – I don't know when you'll say, but now let's do this once. The 200 million euros I was talking about that the health system needs to cut through these channels here – just remember Mr. Janez Zemlaric, remember how many discussions there were about this, about lobbying and so on. And when Mrs Čokl talked about those companies in Primorsk – or because you all know exactly what I'm talking about, I don't need to put out particular names – France, thank you. But if we cut this off, we wouldn't need any other money, and we could put another money in the economy or anywhere, and the health system would have enough money to get the waiting periods right away, as soon as possible, into a situation that is acceptable, which is similar to European countries. No! No! We don't do anything because the government, the real coalition, is what it means to have a real coalition that cares very little about that poor man, the poor farmer, the poor pensioner, the minimum wage, they don't care. What's important is that lobbyists have, that those big rhubarbs have their pockets full, that they drive beautifully with boats by the sea, with beautiful cars, you look at their kids and so on, BMW, which is worth five of my cars and so on, and no one ever wonders where these people get money from. We know where the money comes from, but there's nothing going on in this area, and it's a coalition thing. At the moment, he has scissors and linen in his hands, he has police, he has justice, he has all the organs he needs, he has internal control, even in the system itself. I know that Mr Gantar agrees with me when I talk about corruption in the health system, and I know he agrees because he was a minister, and he knows how things are. But of course, this thing isn't easy, because when you confront the lobby and those pipes where the money runs out of the system, you're in danger. These mafia groups are dangerous, but we have and should at least have a legally regulated state that has sub-systems that can step on this mafia. I don't know how long we're gonna keep looking at this here and nodding, we better have peace, nothing happens, let things run the way they run. That's not right. This is wrong because the Slovenian people, Slovenian taxpayers and the real sector will not be able to do so anymore. He won't be able to do it again. We're all aware of that here. On the other hand, you can see the last time I talked about it, 4 000 500 or I don't know how many, almost 5,000 new jobs in one year or during this term in the state and public administration. Do you know how much money that is? How many of them are here – because I have asked the oral question last time and I hope that I will get a concrete answer. This answer will also show the Slovenian public whether it is true or not and why we are doing things that are not necessarily necessary if we know, on the other hand, that we have a constant group of people living on the threshold of poverty. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that we are additionally burdening our economy, that more people are still going to the employment institution or living with a minimum wage, with which they can neither live properly nor die, and cannot pay any health care separately, must wait in line and get worse at the time, and so on. And then how many problems that I won't talk about, how many people then go to disability and so on – you know what that means. Then it's a whole circle, a whole chain. I hope and I believe that those of you who are here today, the coalition, ladies and gentlemen, that you will strike on the table and say, we have enough of this. We've got enough of this. And the Minister, who is incapable and the key thing I have forgotten before, I will stress now, and that is, the lack of the Minister's ability to negotiate with the other stakeholders when it comes to the health system, for the functioning of the health system. [[…]] I'm thinking mostly about the medical board and the Fides doctor's union. What kind of minister is she who can't even agree with these key players? What kind of minister is that? I know when Mr Gantar was, there was no problem, I remember, they had excellent cooperation, which is logical, because it is for the benefit of all of us, citizens and citizens, especially patients, all of them. She should, she was first called to prove her abilities. How can you, if you are not even able to arrange within your circle certain things that are urgently necessary and important for the country? What kind of minister are you? And that takes two years, and you as a coalition – nothing! Now you have given her a nice opportunity by the new year and quite simply, she will have three, four or two of these laws, which we have discussed, brought to the National Assembly – the question of how this legislation will be prepared – and we will be grinding this legislation until the end of this term and will not be adopted; and she has not been suspended. I'm afraid of that. I'm really afraid of that. Since it is not able to agree with these stakeholders, there is no way that it will bring an appropriate harmonised bill, which any of these laws, which are necessary for reform, will not bring about a coordinated – and what does this mean? Then problems will start, and then we'll just talk and fight here, and things will go the old way. The waiting period will be extended, the dissatisfaction of doctors, the dissatisfaction of the health department and so on. And what's next? Sooner or later, we can get to the point where we're talking about system failure. And that's because those of you sitting here in this House, you didn't act, and you said, "We've had enough!" If, in two years, the Minister does not have enough time to prove herself, prove her abilities and demonstrate that she really has the will, she has a clear vision and, in the background, support for the coalition, if she does not, then unfortunately, such a person cannot be in this position. It can't be. The coalition also think that the complete opposition also agrees – such a person must be replaced immediately. Two years is over and over enough to prove it. If she can't do it and if she can't do it – or if it's another dilemma, that she's too connected within some teams, which, of course, logically, make it impossible for her to get into this position, so that they can achieve their interests, their goals, those, I'll say, the sick and the otherwise at the expense of the poor people, the poor people who create them, and the poor patients who wait for 500 or 600 days in waiting lines. That's unacceptable, extremely irresponsible. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, I expect you to do the right thing in this context, as well as respond appropriately, because you will only then show your state-of-the-art attitude and help. Here you can count on the opposition to take this wagon, which we are talking about today, a step further. Alone, as one individual, either a party or part of a coalition can do nothing in this area. I am sure that Mr Gantar has agreed with a number of parts of my debate, I am sure. And if we could walk in here together, and if the lobbies weren't the ones in the back preventing the story, and if the minister were credible, there would be nothing to do with the money, we could work with credibility. I would hit the table and say: From now on, this contract has nothing more to look for! Done! Ten such contracts – they no longer have anything to look for, a new invitation to tender, new bidders, we take the story further. And you know, then I'd cut the channels, where the money goes — and here it goes into the boats, and I don't know what it's all about. Then we wouldn't need what we did yesterday, because I can't get past someone having to pay 28 euros for a bicycle moped. Shame. It's a disgrace to the coalition. I'm sorry, it doesn't belong here, but you're burdening citizens and citizens, instead of doing what I said, what's crucial is that we save this country and create conditions so that people can live better and better. And not to put more people into a permanent group of those on the verge of survival and, on the other hand, a constant group of those who are ultra rich. This is not right, and I hope that this coalition will slowly understand what it has to cut. Otherwise another government will have to do it. This will be decided by the electorate and the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor. Get Mrs. Marusha Skopac and Master Branko Grimes ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. Somehow I always have the misfortune to debate always after my colleague Pojbich and then it is somehow difficult to form a debate without a response. But today I'm going to make an extraordinary effort not to respond to these inn discussions. But this time I'm going to say that in some way I agreed with my colleague Godec. For the coalition itself was astounded, and I must say that I am also wondering many times what kind of coalition is on this side, which appeals and calls on the Minister for immediate solutions, even though they know what he is doing and when he is preparing and what the timeline is. But let's just leave it. It's just a sad political reality. What is a fact is that we have a long waiting period in Slovenia, the fact is that we have talked about them long and wide and the fact is that all the attempts of the previous governments and all ministers have somehow fallen into the water. Well, maybe except for the attempt of the government of Alenka Bratusek, because there was no attempt at the time. No one has been able to shorten these long waiting periods, and of course there is no reason or excuse for not doing so by us. I have tried to remind my colleagues of the difficulties and some of the statements made by previous ministers on my own in the debate, but absolutely not to point to any previous government that she has not done. Far from it! I am well aware that what has been or is better than what has not been done has not been done, and from here on out we must work now. The more I tried to look after past mandates, the more I tried to find reasons why these problems in our Slovenia existed for so long. What's strange to me is the fact that governments have been changing, both on the right and on the left, that ministers have been changing, there have been doctors and non-medicals on these ministerial teams, and yet the problem remains, and certain actors remain the same. So I was wondering if maybe it was a problem somewhere else. I will remind you of 2011 and the government of Janez Janša. And once again, not to tell you that you did nothing in that term, but an article in my eyes entitled: In Fides, they have everything. Conrad Kuštrin says the problem isn't the doctors, it's the government. Your government. They want to move in the human resources area. Kuštrin measures that there are up to 2,000 doctors in Slovenia, causing their overload. More and more, due to overcrowding and low wages, they are decided to work abroad. It's all the same. And today we were able to listen to Ludmila Novak talk about the overload of doctors and how they are going abroad because of the unbearable and poor conditions in Slovenia. This was the same in 2011. We are all aware that health services and their associated waiting periods are, on the one hand, related to available personnel and, on the other hand, to the organisation of the system. Clearly, both of these things can be optimized. Of course, it is easier to cut into the organization of work than in the staff, and if too long a waiting line is created because there is not enough staff, the minister could not change it in two years. Of course, with the staff and with specializations, a large number of the Medical Chamber, which, with public authority, signs out specializations or more, restricts access to the medical profession. I believe that the organisation of work itself will be significantly different and will be better with the implementation of the eTravel and eProcurement. With 1. 1. 2017 we will actually be able to monitor real waiting times across Slovenia. I think we'll see what they're like very soon. I also believe that this is one of the important steps that will shorten these waiting species, but it will not be the only one and must not be the only one. There are short-term and long-term measures planned by the Minister, and we have all heard what they are like many times. The Ministry will provide additional funds to reduce waiting lines for five programmes. Nevertheless, I will tell you again and exactly: there will be 500 additional spinal surgery, 200 additional shoulder surgery, 600 additional knee arthroplastics, 91 additional peripheral surgery and surgery, 400 additional smoked hernia surgery in adults. A colleague of the steel godec is in violation of Article 5 of the Law on Patient Rights. All these additional operations are seen as a priority treatment of some patients. In the same breath, however, he recommends to the Government that it develop a separate plan for the immediate reduction of waiting periods, just as it did in 2006, and that when the Ministry applies the same approach as in 2006, when additional funds were earmarked for, say, orthopaedic programmes, there is a problem. I would also respond briefly to the obvious that only strategies and analyses are being made and that we have nothing on the table in particular. In the past, many health problems, including waiting types, have been solved without analysis. That is also what Alice Bratusek said today. They too, as she said, acted urgently, not systematically, and perhaps the result today is the same. Our Minister has therefore changed the system, started with analyses and hopes to lead to the results and systemic solutions that Slovenia and healthcare urgently needs. We all know that waiting lines don't just come from lack of money. We have heard this a number of times today. They may also be caused by poor management of waiting lists and poor distribution of patients. The waiting lists also contain patients who are not affected by their medical condition or who have other personal reasons not to decide on the operation and are simply reordering. Of course, there are those who want to wait a long time because they want to be treated by a specific doctor. There are many examples that the realization is much faster than at the beginning of the anticipated waiting period. The pilot project has not yet been completed, but some results are already known, and we already know that for example, more than 20% of those waiting are patients who for reasons of personal nature do not decide to intervene. 20% of them. The reason is also often inadequate medical condition and, for example, if I attach myself to those 700 days of knee surgery in Jesenica, it is likely that this knee surgery can be expected earlier in another place, but also that there are almost 58 patients with inadequate medical conditions waiting for knee surgery. Well, there are more than half of them who just can't do the surgery right now. There's 30% for the spine. With such information, then all these graphs, shown by Comrade Vrtovac, lose all meaning; that is, they do not show the real picture, they do not lead to some solutions, and certainly not to improvement. Of course, I understand that you are in the opposition and that you are advocating a completely different concept, not least legitimately, but it is necessary to say and understand the concept pursued by this government and this minister, and therefore perhaps the comparisons, as used by colleague Brinovšek, with Taiwan are completely superfluous. She also pointed out on the committee that there are no waiting lines. Why? Because 90% of health care is privately owned! If this is the way you see and defend – okay, you will wait for your mandate and change these things, but I would not want to live in such Slovenia, because I know that if 90% of health care is privately owned, then that means that you are on your turn and you pay it out of your pocket. I'm going to say three years ago, I had an operation alone, worth 7,000 euros. I didn't put anything out of my pocket. If I had to, I'd have to get a loan. I hope we don't want that, so I believe that we will have no, I don't believe it, I know that we will have solutions on the table in the coming months and that we will be united in supporting them. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u115	Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for admitting to your coalition that you are also wondering what kind of coalition you have. In the information: another Janševa government has entered its mandate 10. 2. 2012 and 2011 was the government of SD, LDS and Zares, which ruled from 7. 11. 2008 to 10. 2. 2012. In information, LDS and many of your colleagues were also at the LDS party at the time, and they probably know how they worked in 2011. So much for the information that the viewers wouldn't think I didn't know when the other Yangsh government was. Well, you have data on the Internet. As for specializations, which is all the fault of the Medical Chamber, not to defend it – it is true, the Medical Chamber signs specializations, and the last time we heard on the committee, I think the secretary said, with the consent of the Ministry. So, the ministry is legitimate, at the end of the day we could say we don't agree on such a low number of specialists – I don't know, it will be the secretary-general who has one more hour, the secretary probably said, because there is no minister today. However, I would like to ask, given that they have had a lot of fun in certain debates, but they will only answer us if it is true that the specialization will be called by the Medical Chamber and the Ministry to agree on these quotas, which are proposed by the Medical Chamber. Once we've cleaned up, said the colleague, or the minister will clear all these waiting periods, passengers who are not real, people who are unable to go into surgery, and so on, we'll get the real situation. When you put dentists in these waiting periods, you'll get even worse numbers. My colleague said she didn't even give a euro for her surgery, and I gave it to my child because he was so long in the waiting age that he came into a period for a permanent machine when I had to pay for it myself, because public health didn't allow him to do that anymore. And I gave it up - with a loan. That's why I'm saying don't talk to me about equally accessible public health. But I ask myself, in public, I am able to repay such a loan, but there are many of my children's schoolmates who are unable to pay it off. And they also fall into this age group when they are no longer eligible. It's a sad state. As far as this minister is concerned, she has a concept. He's gone! In two years she has not prepared legislative changes, but now we read that today was some advice, yesterday the government, and now, suddenly, you will not believe, both key health laws – by the end of the year, plus long-term care. That is true, as a fellow SMC said, the Ministry is operating absolutely. Now I know what it is absolutely; so two years is nothing, and then you absolutely do it, and really, in two months, you save your health. But before we heard it, I don't know how many times, it wasn't possible in 20 years. That's absolute! You're Superman! Two months, two years ago, nothing. The Minister did not discuss herself, there was no public debate, there was nothing, but now in two months the three laws we have heard about do not know how long, and I also admit in previous governments that it is not possible that time is needed and so on. Now — two months to preserve the coalition — even if these laws are so bad that there will be even longer waiting periods. As far as Taiwan is concerned, I have to answer that. A colleague of Brinovskov really talked about private hospitals in Taiwan, because 90% of them are, but the country is funding both private and public hospitals alike. Basic health care gets all citizens the same, but if you want to have air conditioning in the room, especially a nice bed, you pay. You have to pay for our air conditioning too, because half the hospitals don't have air conditioning in the summer. That's the difference, and because it didn't go on for the last time, and it's what keeps throwing itself under the feet, if we want to have private health care, I say: there are all equally paid after services, competition between hospitals. But what they have, which is not in our possession, is also a revision of money or an audit of paid services. But not with us – now Mr Fakin is no longer Mr Fakin, but the insurance company gives the money and then we don't know anything anymore. Whether the real hips were inserted was an operation — nothing, no revision. There said the minister, here is the man who gives the money, here is the man who reviews the work. And I'd live in a country like this, unlike some of my colleagues. I would. And there are no waiting periods, but that is true — and everyone acknowledges — that they do not have primary health care. That's where the specialist comes directly. With us we have this good, it is recognized, primary health care. But what if people don't go to the doctor because they say I'm not going because there's too long waiting periods. I would rather suffer, and those three aspirins would sing — and eventually end up in oncology. Because of the constant talk of these waiting periods, they are too long and older people are used to having tea to wait, and eventually they come so far as to skip this primary and move on. When I listen to the coalition, I apologize to Desus, SD, but the SMC MPs – it's all the patients' fault. The patients are guilty because they're in line, but they don't come because they're in line here. I don't know, please, secretary, if you'll explain to me how it's possible, because I've never seen this before, so you can be in Ljubljana and Maribor on one hand. I, if I wanted to go to a certain doctor, I had to go get a travel pass and take it somewhere else. There was no way I was in two waiting lines! That's what I'm wondering, who are the ones waiting for, how is it possible to wait for two doctors to get a single tip, because your primary doctor won't give you two directions, just one. Just one. In the summer, I had three of these cases when I moved — not me, but the immediate family members who wanted to move from one doctor to another and I had to go get my principal and my doctor nicely asked, give me, because I don’t want to be here anymore, but I’m going elsewhere. Now, explain to me how much of this percentage is going to be when you pull this out. Why aren't some patients fit for knee surgery or I don't know time? Yeah, because they've been waiting so long, it's no longer appropriate, because some other disease has already gotten in the way. I agree, however, that those patients who call say that they prefer vacation to surgery — but I agree with that. That's unacceptable. Unresponsible from patients. But you can't say that it's all the patients' fault now because the waiting period in rheumatology is 500 days. In the end, citizens are guilty, they pay, and then they're still guilty of not coming. That's the best excuse. I would really like you, Madam Secretary, to explain one thing to me. First of all, what I asked is where these millions are going to go, because in UKC, what's growing is this debt, and it's at the expense of a larger number of interventions. What are you going to give this to pay for these things or to pay for new things? Because when I listen to different experts, it seems to me that every other million mentions; one speaks of 40 million, one 120 million, and 200 million. You have to take your own picture, but the Ministry doesn't respond specifically. You are talking about what you will do for these 7 million, but it would be very good to say, in particular, how you will end up doing with these millions in the next budget, or perhaps you will already secure them – the Minister has provided them. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u117	Ms Sandra Tušar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I will try to answer Mrs Godec first, as far as the money is concerned. First of all, it's 7.9 million. Not much, I agree, but this money will be spent on precisely these services, which are written in the table of government materials and you've probably looked at it. An additional 8 million could be spent if we were able to carry out our first specialist reviews. I must say that I have also made a very personal commitment to make the most of my human resources and that doctors would increase access to these first specialist reviews and diagnostics beyond regular working hours. These actions, for which the money was intended, will be carried out by all or most of them outside the working hours of the afternoon, Saturdays, and Sundays. As regards the additional appropriations in the budget that you have mentioned and which the Minister has spoken about, the appropriations from the budget are earmarked under the current investment legislation. This will be the finalization of the Ljubljana ER and several other projects. However, as regards the contributions made, which according to current favourable forecasts, it is clear that more contributions will be collected and will be made to the health insurance company, and this money will be devoted to additional programmes and also to reducing waiting lines. Then I'd like to explain about a travel agent. Yeah, what you said was you can only come up with one waiting line. However, even though this is not right, some patients have received more directions for the same service. These patients will be automatically eliminated once the eProcurement is in place and the overall situation in Slovenia is effectively transparent, the responsible persons will contact the patient and have to decide where the service will be performed. As far as you're concerned, when you said the patient wasn't able to perform surgery, it was because he was waiting so long. They are probably among those waiting, but there are also many who, when placed on the waiting list, have associated diseases that do not allow them, such as surgery. We mentioned knee surgery, then spinal surgery, which is quite complex and requires healthy, if not healthy, patients with chronic disease. Several of you mentioned the economic damage caused by the hospital stock. I agree with you, but let me remind you that the current legislation and the current regulation on maximum permissible waiting periods and the regulation on waiting lists speaks of an absolute priority for a patient in the hospital stock. We are also actively cooperating with the Health Insurance Office in this area, in order to reach the notification of the hospital stock from the district units to operators, so that operators know that patients are in the hospital stock, because now, if they are listed as a priority, they would be in breach of the rules. Thus, the operator must be made aware of this information in order to benefit from this priority criterion. We have received a report from the Department of Health Insurance that most district units do not carry out active communications for waiting patients. I have to say that I come from an environment where this was different, and we received letters from the Kranj district unit regularly that we have patients in the waiting line who are in the hospital stock, and then we were able to give these patients priority within one stage of urgency; quickly, regularly. Then I would still like to refer to Mrs Bratušek, who gave the case that she was talking to a doctor who was supposed to tell the 40th patient that they urgently needed surgery without knowing when this intervention would be possible. Emergency procedure means you need surgery right away, and it can't be the subject of a waiting list. That's what every doctor, every expert who treats patients, knows. He may have thought of the urgency rate — quickly, which means six months for most health services, or three months for most health services, and six months for orthopedic services. However, Mrs Bratušek did not say whether this doctor has informed patients that they have the right, the right to be treated elsewhere, or even offered to cooperate in directing patients to other specialists. We do not know this answer, so this information or this discussion was lacking at this stage. The interest groups were mentioned. I think that we are all aware that there are really a lot of stakeholders in the health sector and interest groups also visit you because it is clear from the debate that you are a messenger to at least some interested groups. Right, because it is right to hear the voices of these interest groups in the public as well. Mr Weber has pointed out that patients are being redistributed so that we can do this now. This is also part of the response to Master Brother. This is already in writing, and this is what all contractors should do. But to be honest, doctors don't do that, and they don't like it. I tell you, at a visit to the Clinical Center where we treated urological patients, cancer patients, I asked those responsible whether you presented patients that they could be treated elsewhere, that regional hospitals were ready to jump to help, the chairman said, "Yes, I did this." I said, "But it's not just about you. It's all about the urologists." I am not saying that there are enough of them, but for the treatment of cancers, priority treatment, of course, that for some other conditions that are not so high on the professional salary are urgent, there is certainly enough specialists for cancer if patients are to be relocated more evenly. However, it is necessary to inform the patient, to tell him that this is his right, and also to present realistically how long he will wait for a specific specialist. We got another piece of information at this exact same conversation. When I asked, "Did all the patients you have on your waiting list, call and ask if they still need the service they're waiting for, the operation," so it wouldn't technically sound like that, the answer was, "No, we called, about 50% of the patients have already been operated on." That's not true. It's not the patients' fault. To some extent, patients are also victims of the fact that sometimes we do not tell them everything, that we do not tell them exactly what their medical condition is and how urgently, quickly, how long their disease will progress and will really need some operational intervention. I can't get past the blood vessels. I know that patients with splenic veins also have the right to treatment, but the natural course of convulsions is very slow. The frequency is extremely high — more than 70 percent of women, 70 years of age with convulsions, and not all of them need surgery. And if you can properly introduce the patient, then he understands. It really seems to me that we are manipulating, with limited means, the accessibility to coronarography and the accessibility to surgery of the crimson veins. That is why we have made a priority choice this year to provide additional funds for additional coronarography, back surgery, knees, shoulder. Why the shoulder? Because a lot of these patients are in the hospital stock because they can't work. Patients with splenic veins are not in the hospital’ s stock and have an average of 10 years before transferring to a doctor. Mr Weber also mentioned standards and norms. In this context, he probably meant the uniform standards of quality of health services themselves and not standards and standards within the meaning of the Blue Book of the Medical Chamber. Rheumatology. The availability of specialist reviews in the rheumatological clinic, in rheumatological activities, is very poor after the waiting periods, but I listen to Professor Tomšič, who as an expert is deeply appreciated and probably not only me, but also patients appreciate him, and he says that patients with rheumatoid arthritis, with some other diseases that can really cause permanent health impairment, have very good accessibility in us, and that is about 24 hours from when the doctor sends him, to when he is examined in a rheumatologist and started treatment. Nevertheless, for all these thousands of patients who are waiting for a rheumatologist for a really extreme, unacceptable long time, we have agreed with all the rheumatologists that in these autumn months they will now be working additional outpatients, two outpatients per month each specialist. About a thousand 600 patients will be examined in this way, and we agreed with them to do so because they really want to do something about it. What I have just mentioned is all short-term measures and probably the impact of these short-term measures will not be so great that this could very well affect eProcurement, at NATIONAL, published at the National Institute of Public Health. I must say here that the number of rapporteurs has increased dramatically in recent years. This is said to be the number of operators reporting waiting periods at the initiative of this Minister. If anyone doubts about this data, take a look at the report of the National Institute of Public Health for 2010 to 2015 and see that there was still 1. 2. 2013 number of rapporteurs 284, number of lists issued 2 000 330 while 1. 2. 2015 was 540 of these rapporteurs, that is to say from 284 to 540. And one part of the increase in waiting periods and waiting lists goes to digging this up. I would also like to point out that when we monitor waiting periods for all a thousand 100 services, as much as is foreseen in the eProcurement, the number of waiting will be significantly higher. It is our job to actually take systemic measures, and system-wide measures are legislative changes, and the Law on Patients' Rights has been amended. The rules will be presented in November, by the end of the year. You also know that the Minister has also said that she will bring in the draft Health and Health Insurance Act, which will also make it clear what changes in health financing are envisaged. Mrs Novak said that only more money would probably not save the waiting days. He's absolutely right, it won't save them, but we need more money if we want more programs, more health teams that can do more services. This will certainly require more money for health care. On the other hand, when it was mentioned that they are only pulling teeth, this claim is very much excluded from the context. Indeed, he spoke about this at the Medical Chamber yesterday, but he wanted to say not that everyone is doing it now, but that doctors coming from third countries, that their professional skills, at least some, are at such a level that they are doing it. I hope that I have answered at least one part, and of course I will continue to do so if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u119	The word is given by Mrs Marusha Škopac, to prepare themselves for the Mag. Branko Grims and Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u120	First, I would respond to the words of my colleague Godec, who said that we wanted to make it seem like the patients are responsible for everything. Far from it! The fact is that the problem of waiting species is a multi-layered and complex problem. And a colleague of the girl's wanted to explicitly point out that this was probably part of the problem and she also pointed out this aspect. One of the problems of waiting species in health care is undoubtedly demographic trends. The fact is, our population and population are growing old. Medical technology and knowledge of medicine are advancing. The fact is that patients are increasingly educated about their services and rights and are increasingly taking care of their health. This is due to an increase in your doctor’s visit. This is one of the problems that will have to be faced in the long term and find a long-term solution because it will not go away. Undoubtedly, there is also a huge problem with the lack of money, and as has been said, this problem, even if we find money, will not solve everything. The impact of the crisis is partly due to the lack of money. As a result of the impact of the crisis and the reduction of employment, contributions to the health treasury have decreased. We know that the health treasury cannot be financed from the budget and that it can only be covered by contributions collected from salaries or other health insurance contributions. One of the problems also mentioned in the debate is undoubtedly inadequate accounting models for health financing, which some have been in force since 1983 and others since 2005. Surely this will need to be changed and this is the task of the Health Insurance Office to go to accounting models, to revise them and to establish them to the state of affairs that is today, and to today’s treatment methods. Also, the problem that forms or contributes to long waiting species is the absolute lack of doctors. In the mid - 1990 ’ s, many experts found that the planned retirements, the extension of the medical study and the extension of the traineeship would result in a shortage of doctors. In 2000, when he was Secretary of State for Basic Health, Dr. France Cukjat found that there were 500 general practitioners in Slovenia. It is said that this is not a new problem, it is not for this problem or for the medical profession to know about this problem since at least 2000. And then here I'm surprised and I'm referring the question to the Medical Chamber and to all those who co-formed the medical policy, why it didn't increase the admission to college, and why they didn't take the appropriate measures that they would bring to them today, led to a larger number of doctors at their disposal. The solutions, as the Secretary of State has already said, are short-term and long-term. The short-term solution is additional money and one such solution has already been offered by this government and has offered additional money to reduce waiting hours for operational interventions as well as additional funds for the first specialist reviews. The fact is, as I said, it's a short-term solution. It has been shown that even in the past, when attempts to shorten waiting periods have been made and these attempts have been regulated by additional means, this has not eliminated waiting periods, which tells us that only money to shorten waiting periods is not enough to find other causes that have not been explored to date. This is precisely the purpose of the Ministry of Health's pilot project to be at a precisely specific hospital with a pre-prepared programme and plan, what they will monitor and how and how to find solutions based on actual practice. There's been a lot of talk about the passenger. The fact is, around 1 October, most of the hospitals will be on the eTravel, since 1. 1. In principle, the paper passport will no longer be issued. Here, too, we expect that in fact, as has been said many times today, there will be cleansing of waiting species and that the actual waiting lines will show up. To confirm what Mrs State Secretary has said; I also know a gentleman who has turned to me because he has had prostate cancer and at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana has been waiting for six months and after examining him, I advised him to turn to the Slovene hospital. I can tell he was operated on within a month. It is said that it is also necessary here that doctors also have to play this role to inform patients of where the chances of coming forward are much faster than, say, in a specific institution. Perhaps our discussion will also help patients to identify the website of the National Institute for Public Health, where waiting periods have been made public, and perhaps this will help them to search the website and maybe apply for a review where the waiting period will be the shortest. As Mrs Godec has already said, the fact is that many doctors are overloaded and burned because of their face. However, not all are equally burdened, but I will say that these overworked and burned doctors work for extra payment outside their home institution when they receive additional payment. Where else can we find funds for medical bills? The fact is that in the past, specialisation, traineeship and tertiary payments have been made from the integrated budget, and today this is paid from the health treasury. I think that we are united, that this is not a cost of medical bills and that this cost should be returned and paid from the resources of the integrated budget. And Mrs Godec, as I have read, said that this is 100 million a year, and that is as much as you said at the Health Committee meeting, that there is a lack of funding for health. The Secretary of State, as well as the Minister, has already presented a number of solutions to how we want to bring in additional resources for health care. One of them is a tobacco cent, where we count on 65 million additional health resources, and the other is the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which we want to bring into the budget of our health treasury. I sincerely hope that, once we have this proposal on the table, you will support our efforts to fill the health treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u121	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grims, prepare Mr. Tomaž Gantar and Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u122	Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! Today these agenda items continue very nicely. And if there is anything, we can find that the fight for freedom of the public word and for naming things with the right name, of course, in accordance with intercultural dialogue, with the principles that have been confirmed here, is a condition for the existence of independent Slovenia and prosperity and, of course, adequate health and safety in it. This beautifully reflects this debate today. What, say, did we listen to? It's a great fetishization of public health. Now I ask you what is left of this public health care. When I need some serious intervention, I have to pay for it myself. When the former president of the state needed intervention, you all know him well, he has blue eyes, he went to Switzerland to a private clinic. He didn't go to Slovenia for public health, but he could have gone to the expense, now I don't know, but I won't say. And look at the devil when you look at insurance companies and their offers — what has the insurance company been offering lately? So you can just keep yourself safe to go through some kind of public health care. Wait, how, if that's the law? [[…]] Yes, but there are certain doctors who paid them, and then they cover it up for them in short, to stop messing around, under the cover of public health, which is the largest public money launderer in Slovenia, they know exactly who suppliers are, what prices, how excessive prices are in Slovenia, are really just personal interests. [[…]] Doctors suffer this because otherwise they do not get work, except for those few who hope to go without concession and without everything, but this is extremely few in Slovenia. On the other hand, all parasites, like those who paralyze at school, live very well on all of this, and it also gives political power. Such a mountain of money in a pile, when you channel it into the media, of course, then you can make choices about elections. That is why it has a wonderful connection to that point just now. Earlier in this House, a health representative had already revealed how funds for patients from public health were being poured into one of the most infamous public newspapers in Slovenia. Very interesting. Where's that public health department you're referring to? And all those values? Because it's really about values, as always. What does the old marriage say, Murphy's marriage? Whatever they're telling you, they're always talking about money. Now let's see what the talk was about today. The talk was about waiting types that demanded extra money and that it was not only money, but also an organization matter. Wait – who is already responsible for the organization? What about the secretary? Get out of here! And then what does the organization mean in practice – yes, extra money again, and for extra jobs, extra overtime, if you want, to those who are already working. So they don't have to sneak around in the afternoon and take the same patients in the hospital and then at home at night. Because that's what happens in practice, which is what you all know. So much for public health. Since any system that does not have serious competition becomes, of course, its own purpose, it is bureaucratic and bureaucracy has only one goal to increase itself. It's not the doctors' fault, it's not the nurses' fault, they're usually underpaid, overloaded, they're carrying the biggest part of the problem, but it's the Ministry's fault, ladies and gentlemen. And now, what did Ronald Reagan say? Disobedient words, followed by money, for true values are revealed when one sees what a government is really using money for in politics. And look at him, what was revealed in the debate about waiting species? To remove the waiting lines we have heard insurance companies, all of them, it would take 120 million euros to eliminate the critical ones that cause people to die, we have heard, it would take about 40 million euros. Is that really such a problem? Let's take a look at the values of this government. For example, when it came to the establishment of a public company run by Mr Židan, after a domestically said party company, it would be called pre-election money laundering if we called things by their real name, as required by this intercultural dialogue. 40 million for this coalition is not a problem – now! No problem. Let's buy an election vote. 123 million for illegal migrants for this coalition – no problem, immediately on the table, because they are future voters and because money needs to be channelled in different ways. Only a third of this money would be sufficient to eliminate the critical waiting lines that cause people to die — according to the hospital itself. Finally, there is another source, all possible and impossible, and so-called non-governmental associations, to institute what has happened in Slovenia during the reign of left-wing people. There's so much that no one can list it between us. And they are financed from public funds at the state level – not to be, but to be – then, at the local level, money is channeled in different ways. There are no benefits to them, and the damage is great. It is those who, as a rule, those few hundred almonds who are so protesting when someone has to be discredited to scream left-wing slogans or make themselves available with what kind of craftsmanship to wait for someone to fall for their provocations and show how they are prepared for violence. There it goes, ladies and gentlemen, to tens of millions of euros each year of taxpayers' money, all of which, of course, is precisely politically conditioned. If only this money were diverted to health care, there would be no more waiting types, they could properly pay doctors and hire extras and they could properly pay nurses and hire extra. And we could even arrange for an additional material base in hospitals to be completely comparable to that in Switzerland or anywhere in the West. But of course it reflects values, if the value of human health, of human safety, of human life, of all the money I've been talking about would go to health. But because your value is power and you need people to jump for you, and then to write to you, they launch things through the media that report to the end on the sidelines, not to say that sometimes they're lying, they'd use another term, and they'd sound like one SMC member yesterday, and of course you're using money like I said; and that reflects your value. It's not about security, it's not about prosperity, it's not about life, it's about human health, it's about power. I'm sorry, I don't accept this kind of policy, but I'll never accept it. I just hope that, at least in these debates, the voters will see what a huge conflict of values is really about. How vast is the difference between your words and your actions. In words when you swear on security, on health, on respect for the rule of law, and on what you are actually using money for, as shown in the budget, and I have just described. And no one can deny it. At that time, I hope that Slovenia will choose differently and that we will finally restore everything that should be self-evident in Slovenia: security, prosperity, successful entrepreneurship and consistent respect for human rights, human dignity and the rule of law. I live for this day, and I work for this day.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u123	Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Much has been said, many things can be agreed upon. Perhaps again, it should be borne in mind that in the European Community countries, in particular, costs in health care increased by around 4% per year in the years leading up to 2008, during the crisis. Most countries have followed these needs; Slovenia has unfortunately not been among them. We went the other way. Then we even had to take medical resources, and about 400 million lost them during the crisis. On the other hand, it is necessary to know that health care alone could not avoid this extent of work. We have talked a lot about the reasons; from ageing to new technologies, procedures, everything that comes along because people are watching because people are aware, demanding, and because, after all, this health system has offered them all the time. Extinguishing measures such as some that are needed today, in addition to systemic measures, of course, after periods. One of the areas that was constantly up to date was for all these reasons the area of waiting periods. Just today to claim that a problem has been left behind so many years ago, which we are now expecting from the Minister of Justice overnight, is, of course, unfair. We need to know that medicine is changing. Before, I don't know, 15 years of course there was no waiting period for knee braces, because practically no knee braces. When they began to be installed, this meant a new cost in health care, including a new need for health workers and so on. The same thing was, I don't know, 15 years ago we were talking about waiting times for open-heart surgery, but today they're mostly waiting for a stent to be inserted into the coronary scar. But it's a waiting period because of this, not for open-heart surgery, even though they're still working. And again, we need a new staff in health care and new resources. Unfortunately, none of the health authorities, but I will not just say – especially not the minister, but probably the rest in the governments of the governments did not want to understand and did not want to understand. And that there is a problem of financing health care See, practically after the country's independence, because that created supplementary insurance, which we are criticizing today, was due to a lack of money in compulsory health insurance. [[…]] That was the only reason it went to supplementary health insurance. And if we are in these criticisms, but I do not intend to defend these insurance companies now, including the WHO analysis, which has been discussed all the time today, it was because of these insurances that the operators who go beyond the programmes that the compulsory insurance does not pay, that at least part of the costs could be covered by supplementary insurance because there were no restrictions on not paying their share of the services in the price. But once again, as I said in the presentation, there is virtually no system in this country where for so many years someone would work for free is providing services that have been performed in health care. I remember, I was the director about 15 years ago at Izola General Hospital. I used to be the director on one side between the floor and the avalanche. The Institute’s Council demanded a balanced business, including the then Minister, Minister Keber, held me by the door so that we must work without loss, because otherwise the director will fly immediately — just what happened regularly. On the other hand, I had colleagues who had pressure from patients. At that time, I recall the case of CT investigations, which were also relatively new in the period when the simple mass was waiting, I don't know how many free investigations were carried out and of course the administration demanded that it didn't happen, and the patients who waited months and months before the deadline, the year, the two things at the state level changed and those waiting periods began to decline. And again and again, due to the lack of money, we returned to this cycle; today to one and tomorrow to another. And today it's no different. Perhaps it is different that things have come so far that the public health system simply does not endure it anymore. Today we face a problem on one side that we can worry more about because it will not be able to solve overnight, it is a lack of personnel, there are no doctors. I think everyone can be aware of how long it takes to educate one doctor – in addition to basic education in medical school, specialization and everything he has to do. These are adults over, I don't know, 33, 34 years old, who then take some time to get good. And we practically drive them out of the system because politics on the one hand unresponsibly promises them practically the heavens in health care, and on the other hand they face patients who expect everything from them every day. Everything they're promised. We heard about this yesterday at the Extraordinary Assembly of the Medical Chamber. The doctors who spoke there were not politicians, they were not manipulating anyone, nor were they public opinion, but they were talking about their plight. A colleague, chief of cardiology from Maribor, said what is also the result of the lack of money, that with a broken X-ray machine to insert stents into the heart vessels, the first 30 patients who called them when they finally received the device — five of them died at that time. Very likely, if not all of them, even because he waited too long, they were called only 30 first! But unfortunately, in this case, health ministers have always come across deaf ears. I know that there are similar problems today with the health minister, because simply as Professor Kenda said in a graphic way after a meeting of the clinic's world: only if you buy Mercedes in Slovenia, it can't stand half as much as in Austria, that's a fact. We offer our patients services, those who come, on a high level. And believe that whoever comes into the system, be rich, be poor, let anyone, red, black, green, whatever it is, get the best possible service, which of course is not paid or is substantially underpaid. That's why I'm talking. Of course, I agree that only money does not solve the problem, there are many problems in health care. However, I hope to say that the key reason for today and for the waiting period and for many problems is that this money is essentially insufficient. This has become a limiting factor in the treatment of patients and also in waiting periods. Of course, if we evaluate waiting periods today and the value of these operations around these specialist reviews, there will be around 100, 120 million. Only this; without all those accumulated losses in the case of unpaid patients of previous years! And you know, when we're talking about public health, I think that this instigation that's been happening lately -- and now I'm saying as a doctor -- that anyone wants to be privatized in this context is far from it! You know, sometimes doctors are a little weird, but we prefer to treat more difficult patients, because this is, say, one particular challenge. And these are the most expensive and the worst patients. Trust me, working in private institutions like this is usually boring because you do what pays off. But what's difficult is they do where the costs are charged. And this is not an interesting business for many doctors. Such eyewitnesses, of course, do not drink water to desire an expert. On the contrary, I think that the current system can, of course, suit many people. There was talk, now before me Master Grimes was talking about corruption and how much money is being stolen. In this system and, above all, in this public system, so much money is stolen and not even common public procurement, but of course many other things, will not be resolved. This system corresponds to certain ones and, on the other hand, this system has become the greatest threat to public health, as more and more people who want to do something come to the point of paying for that service. They fought against it 200, 300 years ago, we speak – we know the Bismarck system and others. The purpose of all of these was to establish a social system where a person would not have to pay out of his pocket so that he would fail, sell the houses and everything he had in order to be able to heal. But that's what started happening now. That is why this system has now become unjust to the poor. Everyone else can go abroad, he can pawn something, and he'll get something back, and poor patients can't do it today. The main limit, chief, is definitely a lack of money. Of course, even the staff and other problems, but the lack of money. That is why I also find it difficult to accept criticism – a colleague spoke earlier about unfair criticism by coalition partners. You know, he's always in the coalition, we hear that a lot when we talk about how you've been in the government for so many years. Of course, and you are responsible if you are in the government or in the coalition and if someone is well-meaning to note that he needs to change direction or to accelerate a little, I do not see some unacceptable criticism of someone who does not always perform his work optimally. So I don't think I did it, and not least I did it because I couldn't carry out the reform. But my colleagues are right in front of me. What has been said many times that time has not begun to count with the beginning of this government is a fact. At the Ministry, colleagues know, there are proposals for legislative changes, reforms, but complete laws, often harmonised, already quite a few. And also these former colleagues of mine, of course, whether we were all stupid and totally incompetent, which I don't rule out, could be what it was, could be me, but it was doing a lot. Changes have been made, problems have been solved, and believe me, even without such analyses by WHO – this analysis has practically told those who know health care. I regret, however, that the Minister did not use some of the findings of this analysis in a resolution, and I hope that she will at least be able to draw up the relevant legislation. Since this analysis has made it clear that we have a dangerous system of financing health care, virtually from a single source, it is a health insurance that we are a country that practically gives out of our budget to health care. They also have their views and opinions on additional and other insurance, but I am not talking about the OECD, I am talking about the World Bank, I am talking about WHO as an organisation that cares about patients and has no interest in serving this or that insurance company, but they know what they are saying because they know the health systems of other countries. That's why we're expecting solutions. I told the Minister at the beginning that we would spend two years with this; exactly what happened, because we could probably accept something, but it will always be harder to accept it because the mandate is going to be extended to the other half. That is why I would like criticism to be taken primarily well by colleagues within the coalition because it is well-intentioned. And because I have the feeling that it is not always understood, especially not by the Minister of Health, but by the President of the Government and my colleagues in the Government – this experience I have had – what is really happening in health care. You know that it doesn't matter to anyone that patients die virtually because they are waiting – now I'm doing a little caricature, even though it's happening, I told the case earlier – and that this nice quiet thing can be questioned, in addition to saying, to us, colleagues in whom we invested a lot of time, money; the hospital that ordered someone to specialize and schooled him, look, today he says, he finishes the exam – they also said yesterday, I don't know which hospital, I think, from New Town – makes a special exam and the next day he goes to Switzerland to work. This is a disaster for the country, because we need this doctor, the hospital is counting on him and he's going to leave. But he will — why? Because things are messy because daily pressure is exerted on them because they are threatened by patients because they threaten their administrations because they spend too much because they work too hard. [[…]] That is why I say that it is alarming and absolutely not the fault of this government, this minister or this Prime Minister. But we've come to a point where it's probably impossible to delay and move problems for the next few years. I have to say that when I'm listening here on the one hand within the same coalition of finance ministers, the minister who claims that she won't give this money to the health department, on the other hand, the minister's promise that I'm doing this because I'm gonna get so much money here. Wait, are we kidding? [[…]] I think so! I'm still watching, really, that we're doing a lot of damage to people and doing a lot of damage to health. We and, of course, often, as has been said, also the media, who very much like to play this card, because it is nice to find someone to whom anger can be stressed. And health workers are like hired to do that, sometimes a little clumsy, because I say they're not politicians, but look, I think it certainly doesn't lead to the health care that we want and that we promise people, and I hope that we'll make a difference. [[…]] Once again, I am sure that this coalition and this government will actually be judged on the basis of what it will do in the field of health. Because if she falls here, I won't predict the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u125	Ms Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Ivan Prelog have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President. I mentioned earlier that there are 12 of us, but now there are only 11 or 10 of us who are interested in this debate. That can say a lot of things now, but it can say nothing. But I am not really satisfied that even those who have proposed this debate, as usual, at least that's how we used to work so that those who propose a debate, at least they stand up as they should. It's okay. Nevertheless, I estimate that this debate is and is confirmed, as I already said on the committee, in fact nothing but an introduction to the interpretation you have prepared. I actually have a problem because I don't really know if I'm talking about waiting periods, are we talking about interpolation, are we talking about the health system, are we talking about corruption, or are we talking about what we're talking about? [[...]] We talk a little bit about everything. But we know that something some of my predecessors have already said, if you've been doing wrong for years and years, you just can't change it overnight. You can't. This needs to be repeated more than once. I have to say that I really appreciate my colleague Godec because he is taking matters seriously, he is preparing himself, and he is also somehow behind what he says. Of course, this does not mean that all of this is true. And I'm not telling her that we're not going to get along the wrong way. However, I listened to one of the discussions today, and I was not in the middle of it, but believe me, I listened to every debater because I know exactly because I wrote down everything that someone said, I heard a colleague say that boom had happened for the last two years in waiting lines – it was not said on that side. If we go very carefully to look at the data, we'll see that far from the waiting line did not come about two years ago, but it did come about many years ago. But it's true that until today I don't know if I can trust these numbers that I have before me because we don't have the exact data. We have information that the National Institute for Public Health operates with, we have data that Fides operates with every so long, we have data that the chamber operates with, then comes data, so little, and we have Members who are a little bit, and so much over the thumb, they attach, and then there's one big mess. Today I will only discuss the data of the National Institute for Public Health and here before me is a collection, so that we will be able to imagine plastically what I am actually talking about. By the time of Marusich, I will have started with him, but as the minister did not have – it is already more than clear in his time that half of the services were actually reported than they are today, so we can operate on virtual numbers or numbers that were reported at the time. We know that all hospitals do not report the same, and we know that they also have a completely different system for registering waiting types in each hospital. Some have one waiting species, some have three waiting types, some type are handwritten, some are electronic; in short, a very different spectrum, which says in advance that there may be a potential error. And when we look at Minister Marusic of that time, in fact, in May 2011, there were 27 thousand 582, the whole number of waiting fast and regular — we know what that term really means. Then, to be able to imagine, he performed after the fall of the Pahor's government Minister Gantar, and then at his performance there was the number 28 thousand 20 in the waiting line, according to these data, and there was a figure around from January to July or August 2012 that kind of stuck, and then there was a boom. Now we need to know whether the boom has occurred because it has started to be a little more serious, or whether it has actually happened because certain needs have suddenly occurred — this information is not clear to me and it is not possible to say from this curve, so today it would be said that Minister Gantar is now guilty of this happening — far from it! And even when I comment on all the ministers and I don't want to bully anyone, I just want to confirm to you what was really going on with these numbers – an incredible leap has occurred to him, that is, over 100,000 waiting people have happened in the waiting line. There's about 130, 140,000 there. This takes place until the end of his term of office, including the government of Janša and then the government of Alenka Bratušek, and in the meantime he takes over temporarily for three months, Minister Karl Erjavec. Temporaryly – we know how it goes to find a new minister and so on and already in the meantime, a number of 147 thousand 665 jumped to 157 thousand. In three months! If we go a little further, we can see that in the meantime this famous minister was the shortest good – I think only the Minister of Foreign Affairs had an even shorter term 20 years ago, which was one month, I think that Zoran Talar was the foreign minister – when Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza performed a month and a half ago. And in her time, it went from 157 thousand to 160 thousand. I'm talking round numbers. I'm not going to harass you with detailed numbers, exact numbers. And then the term of Alenka Bratusek happens. After a month and a half, Alenka Trop Skaza resigned and Alenka Bratušek arrived, leading everyone there until 18. 9. 2014, and it is already increasing from 160 000 to 165 000. So there were 165 thousand 524 waiting at the performance of Minister Kolarova. This number today, we all know, because we all repeat it out loud, and then it's made in the next two years. What does that mean? What was I really trying to say? None of the ministers, indeed, had the bad luck, had ever completed their mandate, had the interpolation due to the waiting types. None of these ministers! But these waiting days have suddenly become a cardinal problem. And they are that we understand that no one will hold my tongue, that waiting days are not a problem. Of course they are! But in the meantime, there was a lot of other things going on. Remember, during the time of Janez Janša, we had the worst austerity measures in the history of Slovenia and only in the field of health went 440 million away. This, of course, is also one additional possible cause. Today I can only speculate because we don't actually have accurate data, and we can't operate with them to have such huge waiting lines. You've listed some of them today. Of course you've listed specializations. My predecessor, colleague Gantar, spoke of simply not being able to raise a doctor in one or two years. It just doesn't work. You remember many years ago there was a problem because we had only one medical college in the country and there was crazy pressure, let's let it be that there was also a political, that another medical college had to happen – and it happened in Maribor. With a plan to have a bigger production of this frame because we already knew what we were really going to do in the future with some projection. But this college didn't give that result, which means something else had to happen in the middle. Let's leave the brain drain, the brain drain is happening in every country. We are talking about a percentage that is normal and reasonable, but we are also talking about a percentage that can concern us. And today, when we have a problem and we have a shortage, of course, this can be a very serious problem. Especially when the taxpayers are financed, let us educate them, and then they go. At times, when you were in a work relationship, at least the contract, if the company was paying you, you signed a contract, and if you went as early as 8 years — I think one of those average deadlines, depending on what the contract said — you had to pay back at least the tuition if it paid you your tuition. There is no need to return anything to us, but we are writing articles on how our Slovenian doctor is successful abroad and boasting that he is good there. And when we ask him, he's happy to tell us through Skype whether he's not going to come or this last case that I heard when he just laughed and didn't comment, which makes it clear what the problem is. Who is responsible for this problem? In this country, we have made a very clear decision and a law has been laid down with the Medical Service Act, which is the one responsible for the call for specialization. And those who sign off on specialization cannot today determine how many needs and deficits there are and then only today, because we know that we will get such a specialist at the latest – if, of course, we already have a doctor waiting in line and applying for the invitation tomorrow – in 3, 4 years, and then at least 5 years to do it seriously alone and with all the practice and so on to say, that's it. And, of course, he must be lucky to have a good mentor, to work in an environment that is kind, good; in short, everything must be more or less good. But most of the time, we have a problem here, if we just look at the case of urology, we have a serious problem. What have we been doing for the last 15 years in the field of urology specialization? Catastrophe. It's a serious disaster. So many times I ask myself, today this has been mentioned twice, the waiting types are – don't catch me, I will say something very special now – but really worrying from another point of view, from the point of view of corruption. [[…]] That someone in fact, that's what I'm thinking right now, I mean, connecting. [[…]] That someone artificially created not waiting types, but that there are no specialists; but because there are no specialists, they begin to tear down dominoes. Since there are not enough specialists or specialists later, then, of course, we have a problem with the staff, then there is an economic crisis, a way of funding is cut down, and then suddenly one snowball that we can't really stop, we can only make a snowman and jump around it, and we find that we have a serious problem. The Ministry gives its consent, and we have discussed on the Committee how many such cases there are where the Ministry has not agreed on what the Medical Chamber has proposed in the context of specialization, and we have already discussed this in the urologists, and we have already discussed this in the anesthetists, and we are talking about this in all others, so that I will not say the missing parts. Why, for example, is it not a problem in some other areas of specialization, but only in some? Indeed, we have also discussed that sometimes years ago, some specialists were missing, and later, another period of 5, 10 years, the following specialists. Then we have the next problem, which we call different waiting types. Of course, different waiting types mean more – today I listened to one who said, I think the colleague Godec was when she said that with one – no, because you can go, I won't say anything wrong – when she mentioned that the question is, how does someone put themselves in two waiting lines if the one handiwork is written? Someone gets a travel pass, doesn't use it, and they go back for a travel pass. He said he lost the passenger, he pawned, whatever he did, yes, as long as we don't have an electronic system, it's going to be extremely difficult to check. [[…]] [[…]] That's possible, too. Then we have a third way of waiting, and this is what has been mentioned many times before, we have someone who puts himself in line and then, of course, looks, as some of you have done today vehemently, in private practice and does not say that he has gone elsewhere. But he's still waiting in line on paper. He's already solved his problem and, of course, this number is getting bigger. Then we also have waiting types, because someone stands in line, either for health reasons, sick, or for any other reason, one of them has a wedding, and they say, "I'm not going now." Look, however we turn around, these are the facts and such cases are as much as you want; but now I've only said one case. There may be other reasons. Some may not go because of their work because they know that if they are missing from that work, something at work may happen, or they may even be transferred, or anything else; in short, different needs. Now add all these numbers together, and I believe that this number that we're operating on today is not real. I'll bite my tongue if the number gets bigger once we get the e-mails in. I'm sure the numbers will be smaller, but that doesn't mean we solved the problem. Since we will have to work first on having enough teams, then we will have to work on the transparency of the waiting lines, and then we will have to do what some of us are doing, of course, in a vehement way, and this is to provide additional money. He used to talk about the Mercedes, and he gave a comparison. I've mentioned the case of Gradec Hospital and the University Clinical Center twice, at least in this room and on the committee. Comparison of these two patients with approximately the same number of beds, approximately the same number of employees, but there are more of them, with about the same quality and the same amount of services. But there's almost once more money and there's half less. And then what my colleague Gantar was talking about is that we've been stalling this year after year, and this balloon has to break once. Did he break now? Or did he do it before, and some of them didn't realize it? The problem is also this: whenever and any Minister of Health wanted and decided to start amending the legislation, he broke his teeth because then the interest groups that the Secretary of State was talking about and about which Mrs Godcheva was also talking about, but I don't know if they were talking about the same interest groups. You've probably talked about NGOs, I'll talk about those who have all the right to engage and demand and expect answers as to what public health or doctors should call it, and I'm talking about public health all the time, or what my colleague Godec was talking about. Interest groups, already half of the lobby, half of a mafia group, which today needs to be made very clear. For God's sake! Mrs. Godcheva was right when she said, "Tell me who they are!" And I will say, colleague Godec, if you know who this is, please tell me. But I would like to know who these interest groups are, because they need to be eliminated. They need to be reported and removed as a foreigner in a body that has nothing to do there. That is why I say that most Members who sit here today and listen to us diligently and try to monitor and create one debate, I believe we all have the same goal. This is that we have a successful public health or health system in the Republic of Slovenia. But it is true that if we look at the right side, there is another concept meant in the head, but on this side is a different concept. I'd call it political pamphlets that we want to have and run socialism here, and I don't know what else. I'm sorry, I'm not running any socialism, I'm talking about a publicly accessible health system, and yesterday, Dr. Bitenc said the following sentence: that waiting types generate the development or departure of patients from waiting lines to the private. What did he mean by that? I'm not going to go through with it. But the fact is, it's true. The question is, who wants it and who doesn't want it? That's what I'm trying to tell you. So I mentioned earlier that waiting species can be very dangerous because you really have to ask yourself who is generating them and what are the causes that are present and who really has an impact on them. Who? The law? The law doesn't solve all the problems, you've said that many times. Money won't solve all the problems, either. To get to the doctors, however, it will take some time or not just the doctors, including the teams, of all others involved in this process. That is why it is important for me to clarify what is a public health system. Unfortunately, I know that I am tired of a lot of people, especially you, who deal with this matter more or less and know it and that the Slovenian public does not know what we are talking about. In fact, we are talking mainly about the public health system having its own network and within these networks and today I have heard the lady – I am not sure if she really said it, I have to check Yes, yes, she said yes. [[…]] I hear you're shutting down concessions. That's what she said! And then she stressed, not really, concessions or concessionaires are part of the public health system. That's right! Therefore, I ask you kindly, whenever you mention concessions, do not talk about privates. They're not private to me. Privately by their capital, the property they have invested in the infirmary or equipment and so on, they are doing their work, but they are paid for their services from the health treasury and are therefore part of the public health network and are not private to me. Do you know where the problem is? The problem arises when this private, so-called private, whom I do not want to appoint as a private, receives only 20 or 30 per cent of the concession programme. Then I have a problem because I don't know when he started working for the public health network and where it ends and starts working as a private. I would therefore be very happy to prescribe that, exceptionally, they can only be awarded where they are found – and this is probably in smaller places – that the needs are after 20-, 30-, 40- or 50-percent programme concessions and otherwise would introduce the entire programmes. Let the private person or concessionaire do all the work, eight hours a day, a week, five days a week, and it is done and it will be clear. What he's going to do this afternoon, what he's going to do tonight, and what he's going to have with his work hours, I'm not personally interested in him anymore. He will only have a problem with other regulations if, of course, he is working excessively to force his employees to do so. But on a principled level, I hope you understand what I'm talking about. The fact is, this is a public health network for me. While we have a third category, these are clean privates. Pure private people who are also right to be. Why not? Sure. However, they complement the additional offer that citizens want to have, and this is not least the market and in fact the challenge for doctors to compete professionally, to make progress because, in fact, these synergies push each other to further educate themselves, to further research and to move on. How much is this ratio? Today I have also heard one MEP – I will not even mention him anymore, it doesn't make sense, because he always entertained me at first, and now he's stopped amusing me – that the public system really sucks and that we have two-year-old patients or citizens; one who can afford it but one who can't. Well, that's what the proposer was talking about. But look, there are no two possible different rights within the healthcare system, but only one. That someone thinks that if they went to the concessionaire, that it was some other right, it's mixed by people. That's not private. He's got private business, but he's working on the program. This must continue to be repeated, unfortunately still the majority of people, unfortunately some Members do not know this and do not understand it. Let's move on. We can also talk about the need for additional money. Look, it's September. If we give 500 extra money today, nothing will happen until December – more if you understand me. So I'm sure that once we get the right data based on an e-mail, for the first time, we can seriously calculate what is really what is a deficit. Then we will also make a very clear operational plan – I am talking about the Ministry of Health and I also expect it from them when they have this data to actually do the calculation and start talking about the real data. The medical department is involved here, too. Then we'll also get a clear number and we'll start talking seriously, but not someone yelling: "200 million immediately! Short-term action! Then I don't know how much longer!" Where? To what? If no one knows, will we invest, or will we give for services, or will we give for it, or will we give for inspections, or will we give? [[…]] That's why it seems to me that all we keep reminding ourselves of today is a serious problem. And the second is, of course, when we talk about hospital losses. We all know that a cashier's health care company suffers from investment losses. There's the most serious problem we haven't handled in years and years. Well, then we have a colleague, Ludmila Novak, who said that more money would not be enough for the coalition MPs to press on the minister. [[…]] Well, do you really feel like we're not talking to each other? Of course you do! And also with the Minister, we keep talking and asking for certain answers, and we also have them. Otherwise, we wouldn't be standing here today talking to you and defending certain thesis. We'll all draw the line in the end and see what's true and what's not true. But, again, I'm sorry, because of the waiting types you just have to work very systematically on which things are going to change. The Minister said so on the committee, several times in the public media, in public performances, what she had prepared. Not least through government procedure, you know it's coming and it's coming. At least two more laws are those that must be further enforced by the end of the year or put into action. Let me mention one more thing that seems very important to me today or more times, we've become used to it, you know, that's when someone twice, three times repeats one thing, then it becomes so socially acceptable that after we're all repeating one and the same, we don't even know what we're doing with it. And today, on the board, I've been listening to how our health system sucks and doesn't work. Sorry, you insult all doctors who are good and good and who work in their field, and on the other hand it would be interesting to look at public research what people actually think. In June, it was published in Del's survey, which discusses how you evaluate the health system. Only those who assessed well and very well were 75%. Now I have a serious problem. They don't feel what we're talking about. Of course they do, but if you look and see, you can see that we have another problem that we all forget. We have the free choice of a doctor who fights with the right of access to a doctor. I keep saying that. This reminds me of six, seven years ago, when there was a serious problem in the Municipality of Ljubljana when you couldn't get to kindergarten and the waiting lines were very similar. But what was the main problem? Everyone wanted to go to kindergarten down there under the block; that kindergarten, not one or the third or the fourth anywhere in Ljubljana, right there. So we also have a question whether in the waiting line someone wants to go to the doctor who knows he is good, because he was told by a neighbor, a friend, an aunt, a mom, an uncle – some have never even been to Slovenia Castle, they don't even know what the hospital looks like, or that I won't just talk about it in Slovenian or anything else and so on – and it seems to him like he's slow driving, a banal reason for who's going to surgery there, because how they're going to visit me. And he doesn't want to go there. That is why it seems particularly important to us that we have a problem in such a small Slovenia going to Celje, we have a problem going to Postojno, Novo mesto or anywhere else. There's no problem abroad. In other areas, miles are significantly longer and every day, traveling by 150, 200 kilometers a day to the work. Here's for one surgery or review or anything else. Some of you will say that the problem is money. Yeah, you can, of course, that could be the problem. But do you know what it's all about, just to get to a doctor? That's why I don't think that's the main problem, which doesn't excuse that they're waiting species. So don't turn your back on my words. I'm just explaining that even when you tell him he has a chance, some people prefer to wait in line to get to a selected doctor because they trust him and no one else, or because they've made up their minds. At this point to discuss waiting types, as was said: coalition, you have not accepted the recommendations that we have made, and these recommendations could be one of those solutions. I told the committee why we cannot accept these recommendations. Just one piece of information so that people can imagine what you're really suggesting. You proposed to do something that was done from 2006 to 2007, if I read it, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health study all the options and do whatever it takes to shorten the waiting periods as soon as possible." Pika. Nice sentence, doesn't say anything, except do something to shorten the species. And secondly, now, look out, this is essential, "It is necessary to make a separate plan for the immediate reduction of waiting periods, as in the period 2006-2007, and a plan for a longer-term solution". The plan was drawn up in 2006-2007 and this plan was designed to provide money for the reduction of waiting lines. The result is that we have two more species today, 10 times as many species as we had at the time. According to this information. In order to be ironic, in 2012 we took 440 million more to health care, so that what would also reduce waiting species could not be implemented, not just waiting, but something else. My purpose today is, of course, no longer to discuss these recommendations because they are pastimes, because we have already rejected them on the committee, but because you have requested a discussion on the basis of the rules of procedure and procedure, it is important to say that I hope that we are aware that we are, in fact, aware of some way with such discussions, which are welcome if we have a common objective and how we will come to it. But if we do not have a common way, then we will always stand on two shores and always accuse ourselves that this is not the right thing to do. Can we do that? I don't know. We can hope we can do this. I believe it is Godec's colleague that its main objective is to reduce waiting lines, but because we are both politicians and we are sitting in Parliament, we know that the final objective of this proposal is essentially the General for Interpellation. If that means we're going to have another conversation there and try to restore the alphabet, which we're repeating over and over again — if it only brings any results. I am afraid that such discussions do not produce results. But I hope those who follow this will be able to judge themselves. However, I propose to the proposer, and just a little bit more so that we will not be so gravely saying goodbye, I suggest that when you propose to discuss the issue of extending waiting periods, you tell your professional colleagues that you are still a woman and not a man, because they wrote that there will be a participation of Ambassador Jelka Godec. So much, so little for a joke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u127	Now we have a proposaler, Government. The replica is possible. First, a replica, because I believe Tomaž Gantar wants to answer that question. Is it possible? Okay. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much, President. I think that some of the things that we're talking about right now are just to be explained. I don't know where my colleague Möderndorfer has very bad experience with doctors, but it is only in his implementation that he is able to see that they are practically deliberately generating waiting periods, because, of course, there are other interests behind him. Probably afternoon work and service and so forth, as well as responsibility in specializations — we have talked about this too. As far as waiting age is concerned. I have to say again, even as Director, I have been in the same position, and the current Director of the Clinic Centre has himself warned that if the services they perform are not paid, they will be banned. Doctors want to do them, but no one pays for them, and that's why leading people in health care institutions don't let them run them. I was also the director, and I have tried to limit them in the same way that we do not do a program that no one pays for. While the productivity of the work of doctors, if we can speak like this, I find this grave expression of productivity when you talk about working with people is quite comparable to that of doctors in other European countries. Nobody's doing anything less. On average, they do more work. Yesterday we heard about doctors who examine 60 or more patients a day, which is abnormal and inhuman. So that someone could tell a man like that to generate a waiting period on purpose, that's really perverse. Then also impact on the number of specialists or doctors. I don't know exactly which year this system is that the Medical Chamber accepts specialization programmes, but it was previously accepted by hospital directors and health institutions, and again, directors and policies were the ones who restricted the employment of doctors because they held us behind the door because the programmes were not financed and because it is simply presented, if I say, a balance sheet cost – the biggest cost in the operation of each hospital. Are you reading this today that doctors are the ones who, because of their re-interests, that someone will not be, I think it seems really totally unfair to these people who, I think, most of us, can really thank that today is still as it is, because it could be significantly worse if they didn't do it because they didn't get paid overtime for the job they did. [[…]] Only the clinical center's data was catastrophic, so we don't talk elsewhere and so on. Well, I don't think I'm going to get into this too much as a doctor right now, but I really don't think there's any argument for such a claim that it's out of my mind. Then there was the speech. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u129	The replica is three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u130	A lot about saving up your health care, we took care of it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u131	Sir, the replica is three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u132	Right away. Look, savings. The health department lost it because the companies closed down because the wages were low. No action has been taken, let's give health care 100, 200 million. But as a result, there were smaller contributions and smaller inflows to the health treasury, and this is why health care lost 400 million, not any government's measures. Of course, this attaches to what I say all the time: the limiting factor is the lack of money. In a time of crisis, when health care lost so much money, waiting times increased dramatically. It's a fact. Until a once-in-a-lifetime solution for hospitals to have a loss but not have a health allowance – this is what politics, not health workers, has adopted. A policy that has been poorly negotiated in Brussels. That's why I'm saying it's hard to accept these criticisms on healthcare workers, as well as on austerity measures where we are. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u133	Now it's going a little too far in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u134	I'm done. Thanks, I thought I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u135	You're wasting your time, but the replica is basically three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u137	Procedurally, Mr. Mitja Horvat. Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Besides, I'd like to have that kind of discussion. It would be very lively and probably more of us in the National Assembly if we had such discussions, but this is something that we should either point out that this was twice the abuse of the replica. For the first time because it was too late, and for the second time, because it wasn't a replica. In such a case, our Member is in this position that he cannot now respond to what was a replica because it was not a replica, but it was a debate. So I think that it is either necessary to draw attention to such cases or, now that we are amending the Rules of Procedure, perhaps a procedural proposal, not for this moment, but for the consideration of whether or not we might change something in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so that such a lively debate may then be possible not to consider them as abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u139	Now one more procedural one, and then I'll answer. Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much, President. Yeah, it's been a long time. The fact is that the device didn't work, and my colleague didn't say it, I'm adding it because it seems important to me. It wasn't the messenger's fault. He was warned to stop, but at that point he probably didn't even see what time it was. That's why I think this procedure was a little over the top. It would be true, however, that if we are already speaking and reminding ourselves of the time to do so, for example, when the President of the Government is speaking, and that the fellow Member hopes to raise up at that time and inform the President that it is an excessive time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u141	First of all, the time for the replica is deducted from the time that it is intended for the individual group of Members and is not particularly marked and replaced. That is how I should literally rule him out, and I have never done that before, and somehow I wish I didn't, because the debate is the essence of this Parliament. I will therefore support any proposal that will contribute to having something other than a replica with the appropriate revision of the Rules of Procedure, because the replica is really meant to deny something they have misunderstood. This is how we usually understand the replica as an answer, so we would need something like an answer. I don't think it's necessary to exaggerate, we don't need procedural, to prolong time. We understand, all of this is true, but I will not even warn anyone or anything else, but it is right to continue the debate. First, the government's representative came forward, then she gets the word from the proposer's representative, and then we come back to the list we had. However, if anyone feels the need for a replica, it will be up to him if he still has time at his disposal because he contributes eventually to what we have to do. But it's true that it would be good to stick to the fact that the replica is on the wrong side of the line, but that's our basic idea. And here, to a certain extent, I understand and understand this excess and continue. First of all, I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Sandri Tušar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u142	Earlier, I had forgotten to answer Mrs Godchev's specializations because one of the questions was whether the Chamber was granting specialisations in agreement with the Ministry. Yes, in the end, the actual proposal of the Chamber will be endorsed by the Ministry of Health. I find it difficult to comment on how this has been done before, but I say that we have been very actively working together lately and we are also going through the proposal of the Chamber together. The main co-ordinators of specialisations are also present at the meeting, so I would like to assess that cooperation and agreement have been good in recent times. I must point out one more thing: by 2020, a thousand and 300 doctors will have completed more specialisations than they will have retired. Thus, we have the opportunity here to actively reduce waiting types by hiring these additional doctors and, of course, by additional teams. But that, of course, means extra money, as I mentioned earlier. Not money now; yes, it now has a whole health system of limitations and has limitations in staff. In the coming years, however, these restrictions will be significantly lower, but we will have to provide additional money. And I would like to refer to that request that hip surgery be available within 90 days. I estimate that this is simply not possible in the current system, although we may not be far away. In fact, the realisation of waiting periods is this year for hip surgery or 1. 6. 2016 153 days, last year 1. 6. 129 days, in 2014 1. 6. 161 days. Such realized waiting periods are not so far from those we really want. The data we are reading here in the OECD is that Slovenia spends thousands of EUR 983 per capita. By comparison, Germany 4 thousand, Switzerland 5 thousand and 300. In short, such health care as these developed Western countries have, simply by these means, as we are now investing in health care, cannot have. I think that the new proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act will also take into account certain solutions, so that more money will enter the health system and that only financing of the health system will be more resilient to the possible crises, as has been the case in the years of crisis, when we were solely dependent on wage contributions. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u143	A representative of the proposal's proposal, Mrs Jelka Godec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your explanation. You're saying that with the new law we'd like to set up somehow or put an extension for more money into the system. I'm wondering if you've spoken to the Treasury or the Ministry of the Economy. We heard that less money came into the system also because there was no employers' payments because there was no economy or companies closed down and so on. So in Slovenia it will also be necessary to do something in this area to make more money in the system. But today we've heard that this ministry is very innovative and that we don't know anything like that, and that's a tobacco cent. It's nothing innovative. It's a new tax. That's not innovation. It is not innovative to collect more taxes from people. Your government does this all the time. And a tobacco cent is a new tax. So it's not innovation. It is likely that more money will have to be obtained elsewhere, including by improving the economy and so on. Well, it's probably another time. Yes, Comrade Jani, this is an interpolation exercise; otherwise it is not planned, because while we have convened this meeting about waiting periods or given this initiative, things have happened that have also triggered the interpolation, but we can also take this as an introduction to it. Today we are talking about everything, as it has been said, but we do not even know what we are talking about – of course we are talking about everything. Because what we're talking about, I don't know what's been said, is essentially the result, after all, there are waiting periods. Therefore, it is also wise to talk about the burden of doctors, how much money, how much corruption, how much it is. In the end, it also sums up a percentage in some way during the waiting period. And the colleague always points out that in the National Assembly he will just say what he wants – then we stick to it, but not, for example, that a colleague should limit himself if he can't talk too long because he just said to his face what you're doing. Then the hand goes up, "Procedurally, please don't talk for more than three minutes." What was said, however, is why all people do not give up getting certain things, even after all, health services. Yeah, a lot of people give up their food. To a lot of people. But it's easy to talk to someone who lives in a center that doesn't have a problem, but it's hard for someone who lives in Haloza or in Prekmurje to send it to Isolo. It's simple, if you get 300 million for Ljubljana, then say that the periphery waits. I must say that I live on the periphery and these daily hardships, but I am not saying that you do not see them in Ljubljana, but they are so strong that some of the Mountain cannot go to Celje. They just can't. And sending such a man to Isolo or somewhere else, beyond, is a terrible problem. It's a problem. We can't just do that, but they're gonna take it a little bit. These are exceptions, of course. Or I must say that there are more and more such people in Slovenia, that they are no longer exceptions. It is absurd to say, however, that the results of the 2006 short-term measures have led to increased waiting periods today. That's bullshit. That's really absurd. 2006 – A short-term measure has made the waiting periods we have today. ZUJF. Otherwise Mr. Gantar has already said something, I will not say it again, but ZUJF – yes, because you had the opportunity to stop the ZUJF! Alenka Bratušek had every opportunity to stop the ZUJF! The government of Mir Cerar has the option of ending the ZUJF. No, you're prolonging the ZUJF because it fits because it's good! Otherwise, Comrade Jani Komot could have been shut down. You're all criticizing him! But no, you all keep it on the tables because it obviously helped to make these indicators appear, which already appear to be a rise in matters in Slovenia – I will not explain these matters. So not by the fact that 2006 short-term measures have caused today's waiting times and that the ZUJF is the biggest crime of the century that has happened in Slovenia. Because if it is, then you could stop this crime right in 2013 when you joined the government. No problem! Since you had all the levers, you still have a big coalition today, we could do that. And I don't want to hear about these things, or my colleague Jani has been in the National Assembly longer than I do, he knows things, he's been in the government, I'm almost saying he could be a minister of health. But no! Rather, it leaves us with the minds of all who — I hope that it has been said from the heart — with these suggestions, and I want to shorten the waiting times to help people and not to speak, but to go to Isolo for a review. They can't! Everyone can't. Because the situation on the periphery is not as pink as it is in Ljubljana or in larger centres and these people must also be helped. But I'd rather see him go where he'll get his supplies first, but it's almost impossible. I am also very glad that my colleague Jani was at the Medical Chamber yesterday because he changed the board about how all the doctors are guilty, today even a few doctors in between, but a lot of things happened between the lines, because he also said in the previous session that doctors are not uniform. That there will be a lot of change, and if I say the words from the board: "First, let the doctors tell them how they imagine it. There is no single opinion among doctors either. The Management Board of Health explains something that certain doctors in the regions do not agree with if they also ask their guidance." Yesterday we saw that 15, I think there were 15 delegates, that they all agreed with the leadership, and together they accepted this declaration on the exit from the public health crisis – I do not know exactly the address, I apologize. It's a good thing you were members of the coalition there yesterday, too, that you heard things. Interested communities – they come to us, we report them. But I wasn't talking about these interest communities, you were thinking about the Medical Chamber, of course they're walking around, presenting things, probably with all the parliamentary groups. I was talking about what Jani says he wants to know who they are, who they put in their pocket. Interestingly, however, it was a terrible problem to establish an investigator in the field of corruption, but at the time it was different. Today: I am very interested in who these people are. But I think a lot of people probably know them better than I do, which I haven't had contact with before, and I hope I'll never have one — at least one of them or another. But I am glad that this debate has taken place today, even if for some, depending on the number of Members, it is irrelevant or meaningless. At first, you had one epistle, one epistle. And don't tell me how interested someone is in this debate. I just hope that the Minister will come to the interpolation, that's all I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u145	Replica Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u146	Dear colleague Godec, yes, everything I said is true, you can read it again, and I don't flip any records. I made it very clear that doctors are different. We've got good, we've got bad, and so on. But the fact is that you repeat what my colleague Gantar said – today I did not say anything, and in no word did I mention that they are the ones who generate waiting periods, but I said that we know who generate waiting periods, that there are, of course, more. Which one actually works, but we don't know. That's why I warned you that we have a problem because we don't know what generates waiting species a hundred percent when we have accurate data, we can operate on it, yes. As far as this is concerned, of course you misunderstood me when you said that people don't have money. Of course they don't have any money. Many people don't have it, and it's hard to come to Isolo, Celje or anywhere, but most of these, if presented to them, would have a choice and decide and believe that a large majority would have decided. Those who do not have the money, under the applicable law, the health department will reimburse the costs if the insured person submits the travel expenses accounts, and may even require an escort. So we're on slippery ground, saying they don't even have a chance to get to a doctor. But it's true that they have to do it, and I believe it, and I'm sure that a lot of people don't even know it because they're not trained patients about their rights. That's what it is. But I could agree with you here. But that's not why they can't get to a doctor. But there are other reasons, and there are also infrastructure reasons, and there are other reasons. Everything else about my debates; I don't know why, whenever I discuss it, you say I teach you. If that's how you take it, that's your problem. I'm just arguing like you, and I never mention you teaching me anything. You're just arguing. True, your concept or my concept are very different. That's me. That is why it will be difficult for us to find a common denominator, but we can reach the same goal; and if we do, I will be very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u147	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert now has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much. But I'm going to start a little differently, and I think colleague Jani Möderndorfer said earlier that he would end up with a little joke and make a joke with a vocabulary error or with the wrong gender name in the proposal. Interesting, isn't it? Mine's gonna be a little different. I was looking at the clock. In fact, I was just observing the hour and debate of colleague Jani Möderndorfer, and I was thinking the following: I will say this now also out loud – that it is probably after the Minister's intervention, because as soon as this was put in, we saw her with a helmet there at the construction site the next day and she watched the hospital grow. We've never seen her before, but that's when we saw her. Now I believe that you advised her in some way, because that was a pier, and your performance was a great pier, because if someone didn't really wait in the waiting lines, as far as citizens and citizens are concerned, I would say something more about them then, I would think, because there's nothing wrong with us. The waiting species are growing, they can't be eliminated, they can't be expected – it's true. But there's one thing I can agree that they didn't come up overnight, absolutely not, but to say why they did it, they're not going to contribute anything. The fact is that they are, the fact is they are growing, and the fact is there are no measures in two years. Maybe someone doesn't think it's a problem, but maybe some government wouldn't put it at the top of the list. You were at least so smart at the time that you wrote it in a coalition contract, but there was no progress here in two years. I think that such meetings are necessary at the time, more than necessary, to discuss this. And yes, for waiting species there are various reasons, but we have also, with the help of the media, about which we have talked so much today, come so far as to blame citizens and citizens today when they must wait when they do not know whether they will survive or not, doctors. The first one, normally, where they're waiting. Of course, we have also witnessed an act that is only an extra work, not a threat now, but a severe setback. The fact is, doctors are increasingly facing burnout. Look at the mortality rate in doctors, and the fact is they're going abroad. Because this is really unsustainable; on the one hand, you want to help, and as previously said, they have 60 patients a day. Then they are required to be fully professional, and all the time it is very important that they monitor the patient so that they do not overlook anything. On the other hand, their patients are knocking because they're waiting and they want to move on. In short, it's chaos. I am also committed to public health, but publicly; you know, when it comes so far as to wait in the waiting lines of so-called professionally contentious matters, it is said that even those patients can no longer, and this is true, what you formerly said by colleague Möderndorfer, that we have different waiting types. [[…]] But when we're so far away, they're waiting for a waiting line of patients, which I think is the last alarm. And that's what's happening today. I don't think I'm a populism now that I'm saying it's not public health anymore, but it's dangerous health. But not because of the doctors, but because something's really wrong. You know, I looked at a little waiting line, even where you can find them, at the Health Insurance Institute and so on. Pedopsychiatrics, I expose children and point out an area that is still growing. You know how the area of psychiatry or patients with these problems has increased significantly in recent years. 180 days! Do you know what 180 days is for a child who is in such distress and needs such help? Not to mention those who somehow appear to belong under an expertly controversial waiting period. Some others were mentioned earlier. I am appalled that in Slovenia, for example in Trbovje, they are waiting for a dental examination of a thousand 460 days. You know, the dental examination is so true what was said before, they can go to another place, but you know, these are the kind of visits that can be made every week. [[…]] This actually represents a problem, and these parents with the kids are waiting. These are all such problems, which, of course, do not fall within that category of destiny, but present problems. When I looked at the waiting lines for a while, I was also reminded of a matter that seemed very important to me — the blue library. Would changes in this area also help to reduce waiting lines? Let me tell you, psychiatrists, I think they've been asking for two years to change standards and to change standards after the so-called blue library, and no one does anything. This then draws the waiting species behind it. And it's true when we do that, we'll just see what kind of waiting lines there are. But, look, half the term is here, and you're convincing us that we don't even have real statistics like waiting types. No! No! I think some things simply, as far as the Minister's work is concerned, cannot be excused. True, the health sector is difficult, as far as the work of ministers is concerned, I certainly agree with that. Many, as you said, can break their teeth, because it is a very difficult area, because we are talking on the one hand about citizens and citizens who need help, on the other hand we are talking about the system, doctors and so on. It's a difficult area, but it can't stop us from seeing things, not apologizing, and taking a step forward. In two years, I think it was done — nothing! That is why social intolerance is increasing. I don't think we're gonna help each other if we're looking for some reasons in the past, why? It was really said that poor ZUJF. And now it's economic growth, you said, and the economy is booming. The economy is booming, let the money in. But now it is because the ZUJF was saving. You're the only one who extended it, and then I don't understand it. I won't be long because I think you two have talked a lot about this, and I can't say it's some area I'm covering. But it's a fact that I'm talking to a lot of doctors; on the other hand, I'm talking to patients. The stories are such that we can say: just another great chaos in the system. It will really be necessary to roll up your sleeves, not to go with your helmets, but to look for a photo deadline, but to take some changes seriously. I mean, it's probably not gonna be overnight, but at least let's make it happen, and it wasn't. I think that in this mandate we are still in some way – thank God we have a Slovenian Democratic Party in this national assembly, because otherwise we would hardly talk about health. And we should do more, no matter who the reference is, who the proposer is. We should talk more about this area, including how to bring things from the dead. You know, interpolation – okay, it's political responsibility, but it's mostly about action. I don't know what the problem would be if it was some kind of overture before the interpolation. After all, waiting days are also a reason for interpolation. Well, it's an interpolation because someone doesn't successfully do their job according to someone else's assessment, and they're just things that are bad. I think you have a hard job here – defending the current state of the health system. I think the coalition has a hard time, and I think it's a little moral cat, too, if that's the situation that advocates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u149	Mr Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you, Chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! I would like to point out that the long waiting periods for health services are an important political issue in many European countries and that Slovenia is no exception in this respect. The Ministry and the Government are focusing primarily on the immediate reduction of waiting periods for patients with life-threatening conditions, while establishing solutions at the level of the entire healthcare system. The Ministry has undertaken to ensure effective monitoring of waiting periods and transparent placement on waiting lists in order to provide additional funding in the event of a reasonable increase in needs. These objectives are also being successfully pursued. In July 2016, the government allocated almost €8 million to reduce waiting periods in the most critical areas and in the first reviews of a specialist in obtaining business diagnostics. At the same time as this intervention programme to reduce waiting times, the Ministry of Health is already preparing an amendment to legislation in this area. It should be borne in mind that the increasing trend in the ageing population is making the waiting period a problem that cannot be fully addressed, but must be managed in the long term and guided in this way so that the said consequences of waiting for the patient are zero or less. Such topics may give rise to the view that the Slovenian health system sucks, which is not true, for which we have obtained internationally comparable data through the analysis of the health system. This data shows that our health system is classified among the average countries of the European Union, according to some indicators even better. However, changes are urgently needed, particularly in the area of financing, management and management, where waiting lists are also largely a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u151	Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman and then to conclude with the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, President. We have heard many times today that the life span of the Slovenians is longer and that longer care is needed, and not least, in view of the development of all things, better care is also needed. But there is absolutely no excuse for the fact that there are at least 246,000 people on the waiting lists. 246,000 means at this point every eighth Slovenian. But if someone had previously listened attentively to the secretary of state, that all performers were not yet sending data on long waiting lines, and that there were about 100 of them, and when all performers were sending data on long waiting lines, that data or 246,000 would be significantly higher. In addition, there are no waiting types in this issue in the area of health, dental care, I apologize. So, if I sum it up somehow, I think we'll come to the number that every third Slovenian will be somewhere on some waiting line for a review, or an intervention, or anything else. Before that, Jani had little evidence that we were talking about average numbers, 60 million, 200 million, 120 million, and so on for the elimination of waiting species. V.D. Director Fakin said a few months ago at a meeting of the parent board that we currently need 120 million euros to eliminate waiting lines. I don't think he just said that in one euphoria, but based on some data. Look, there's no money, at least that's what the government says, but when it comes to covering some kind of financial bank hole, there's also billions. Next year we hear that 327 million will go to public servants' salaries. That's what's gonna happen. There were 300 million for the Ljubljana municipality and some other features of infrastructure will be financed here – but! So if we can find everything else, we could also find a way to eliminate the long waiting lines. I know that someone will say, because health services are paid from the health treasury, not from the state budget. But neither are financial institutions financed from the state budget, and immediately there were EUR 5 billion to cover this bank hole. All these long waiting types cause undoubtedly deterioration in the health of our citizens or patients, higher costs, cause higher compensation – I said earlier in my position – height due to hospital absence, escape of our doctors abroad. Last but not least, patients also go abroad for treatment. Doctors have impossible working conditions due to long waiting types. In short, both our patients and our doctors are dissatisfied. But the ministry is working instead of dealing with the elimination of long waiting lines, which we have heard is the government's priority at the moment, but they're already dealing with the entire mandate with analyses, resolutions, pilot projects and, of course, staffing – yes, Madam Secretary of State, that's funny to me sometimes, you know. With regard to recruitment, I cannot help but see that this year the Ministry has adopted a protocol on the selection of candidates in the councils of public institutions. 88 candidates in the councils of public institutions were released prematurely because they did not comply with the conditions of this Protocol and the Ministry then appointed professional people – I might say more people. Now, if we look at how professional these people are, they're members of the institute worlds. However, we were reminded of this yesterday at the Extraordinary Assembly of the Medical Chamber when there was talk about the recent violence in hospitals, and one of the members of the Public Service Council suggested that patients prepare a list of unwanted patients to protect themselves from violence. So, the list of unwanted patients will solve everything. It was to me that I wouldn't say funny or weird or even sadder. A few of us were at this extraordinary meeting of the Medical Chamber yesterday, and we've heard a few summaries today, and I'm not going to repeat them. But I would like to warn or say what the doctors or members of the congregation of the Medical Chamber have said. They warned me that health care lives on the shoulders of doctors. Last but not least, they warned or thought that they were afraid not of losing the battle but of losing the war. I think you should think about it a little bit. I would like to point out once again that long waiting lines are not at all the fault of patients, they are by no means the fault of doctors, we know that our doctors are good doctors, they work hard and in a variety of ways, or in a wide range of areas, they belong to the world summit itself. It is true that with this point today we did not want to point out who is to blame and how guilty this Minister for the long waiting periods is, with this recommendation for today's meeting we wanted to point out how to reduce waiting periods in Slovenian health, but expensive coalitions, and in the debate, on the home committee we were the only ones. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u153	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor and then a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer prepare for the concluding part. [[No, no, ……]] We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Sandra Tušar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you for saying so, President. Dear Members! In the debate, we were given a moral cat to defend that health care is fine. I'm bringing the moral cat back because you're abusing cases of violence and linking them populistally to waiting periods. At the Ministry of Health, we do not blind ourselves to the fact that there is nothing wrong with health; not everything is okay and we are taking steps to improve things. Now I will try to focus again only on waiting times and not on all the problems you have raised in this regard. We have already described to you several times today, and already on the Committee on Health and the Minister has repeatedly said in public that we have approached both in the short term and that we have joined and are also working on long-term systemic measures. During the short-term measures, I have already indicated today that these are additional funding for the single supplementary programme and additional funding for the first specialist reviews and for additional diagnostic investigations. We have actively engaged in and negotiated with operators that will reduce waiting lines in the field of rheumatologist, and there will also be a thousand 600 additional checks by the end of the year. Since the long-term measures, we foresee an amendment to the Law on Patient Rights, an amendment to the Regulation on Maximum Allowable Waiting Periods, then eTravel, eProcurement, by which we will be able to clearly assess the number of waiting periods to which the services are to which and then, in the following year, by additional financial means, address these maximum waiting periods, the longest waiting periods, including, in particular, those for professional reasons, which are unacceptable. Finally, one of the systemic measures will also be the preparation of a new Health and Health Insurance Act, which will provide funding and additional health resources. I already told the board you can't tell us, even though you're trying, but you can't tell that we're not doing anything. The effects may not yet be the most visible, but I believe that the effects will be visible, both in the short term and in the long term, if we are able to bring them to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u155	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposal proposal, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you so much for that word. The Government's priority was written, among other things, in the first place almost: health. The support of Prime Minister Kolar Celarc is great. This underlines constantly and everywhere. So the Minister has his full support for all health changes and expects her to do so as soon as possible. You said many times today, it will be done, it will be done. This should be done! Given the government's emphasis on the priority of health care. Madam Secretary of State, you haven't mentioned the tragic events that happened today, even what I said was that the doctor was working with 60 patients, and it was hard for me to speak. And I didn't abuse the event that happened recently in order to explain the waiting periods. If anyone did this, then tell whoever did it. And I do not allow myself, but here I do not allow such an attack on your part to abuse the tragic events of this session. In Slovenia, I will say so; not to do anything, but probably to the wrong side or almost too slowly, trust in the health system is falling. I will also summarise what was at the Medical Chamber yesterday, because I was surprised in essence at the unity of doctors and at all these warnings, the construction of the ministry, the government, and even after all, as I said in the opening statement, including the Members. It didn't leave me indifferent to that performance yesterday, but I think it left a lot of people very indifferent. In Slovenia, we have good experts, good doctors, they prove this every day, and I think we should put more emphasis on these things in the media than we do in the National Assembly. Actually, they almost didn't. These good doctors, the good experts who are overloaded, so at least they say, will now be used to shorten waiting periods. Here too, because they will work outside the working hours, Madam Secretary, they will work for their own pocket. Not just when they're working in private. Here too, but here at your request; but you said that in cooperation and agreement. These are the doctors who said they were burned last night. And not everyone, it's everywhere, it's in education. Some teachers do a lot of work, but they do something for free, and some of them come through pretty well, and everything's fine. But those who come through nicely never use them to do anything else. No! No! Those who do the maximum that they are told to do, or even more, then we use those to do the extra work, because we know that they will do it. The others who go through the system to the pension very slowly will fall through here too, and they will not have to work overtime to reduce waiting periods. And we're gonna use those burned doctors to do that. Doctors have said that after this event there is more and more violence, of course patients are using these things, I say it's wrong that it's not appropriate that it's not an excuse to wait so long, and then threaten the doctor. And I don't think it's right that a doctor who treats a patient is barely enough because he has a waiting line of doctors at his primary. I don't know how many people are sitting around, but you've been waiting an hour, two hours, you've been so nervous that this doctor is still explaining to the patient the rights of the patient, because in just three, four minutes, he's only checking it out. And now let this doctor explain to him the patient's rights, which hospital to go to – because the doctor tells you, of course. He said, passenger this one, go to this guy and this specialist and so on. This doctor, who has three minutes, if he has one patient, should now explain the patient's rights. Yeah, bravo! I think if you tell doctors that they should work even more for this salary, and have the patients' rights explain it, then I think you'll have another special assembly at the Medical Chamber. In two years, I mean, we have to admit this, the legislation was not proposed in public, not in government, not in the National Assembly. That's a fact. But the fact is, you want or predict that you will now do so within two months. Within two months, you will propose a law amending and supplementing the Health Action Act by 31. 10th, then regulation of waiting periods and preparation of amendments to the Patient Rights Act, 31. 12. 2016 of course, Health and Health Insurance Act — 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I've told you before, it seems impossible for me to do this, or you've been hiding things until now, so even so, I'll say, when you say, interest groups didn't know it. In the meantime, you have three amendments to the healthcare system, three proposals. Now, according to my information, there are no colleagues from New Slovenia, you have not responded to them, you have not responded to our suggestions, not to the suggestions of the Medical Chamber. And now you're going to give us three important laws on the table in two months, at least I understand them as important, and I think you, too, because you cited them. In addition, you will be innovative and will introduce a tobacco cent. A new tax! I think December will be a hell of a barrel; for you and probably for us in the National Assembly, we'll get three important laws on the table. Three important. By speaking only of the field of concessions, nothing else, absolutely nothing else. And we've already seen it this way, so it's going to go a little faster here, but we can expect a barrel in December, just like I said, for you and, of course, for patients. And you're the one who's expecting the changes right now. But I don't think there's anything that's too interested in the law, and they're interested in being treated equally, so that it's all the same. As much as the same; we can talk about ideals, but we know that it is not possible for these waiting periods to go down, so that we will not hear about these excesses in health care anyway, on the one hand or on the other. So the patient is only interested in getting medical care for what they're paying for, and that they won't wave with their hands when we talk about solidarity in health care, if we don't have it at all, and that private health won't get rich at the expense of chaos in public health. Not to be allowed, but as I said before, precisely because of the chaos in public health – now the coalition will say that I am exaggerating, but take it with a reserve – the breakdown of public health, which seems to me that you already don't know, all dissatisfied, so the privates are getting rich, so it's nice for them because everyone who has money says O.K., and I'm going to go for a review tomorrow or three days from now, not three months from now. [[…]] I'm sorry. But only those who can afford to do so can do so, not those who have also paid for medical bills can do so. So, Madam Secretary of State, I would rather see that the Minister is here, not to challenge your expertise or anything, but I think the Minister is the one who should finally be here when it comes to such important matters. I don't know if I'm the only one with a feeling, but Mrs. Minister is literally ignoring the National Assembly, and we see you or Mrs. Pirnato on several occasions at the board meetings. Please tell the Minister that we expect her when important topics are of less importance, but of course you are; but once again, without challenging your authority or authority, so that I really wish you plenty of working days, pleasant working days by the end of the year, and in December I expect all these laws on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-23-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u157	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday, 27. 9. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Nice weekend, quiet and sunny!
