ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Violeta Tomić, Mrs Ljudmila Novak since 12 noon, Mr Andrej Chus, Mr Janez Janša, mag. Matthew Tonin, Miha Kordiš until 12 noon and from 17:00 onwards, Luka Mesec, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Mr. Roberto Battelli and Mr. Franz Breznik. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's a bill on preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism, in another defense. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The ongoing problem of terrorist attacks and the recent discovery of research journalists in relation to so-called Panamanian documents have repeatedly reminded us of the extent to which money laundering and terrorist financing are causing damage at national and international level. An effective fight against these two phenomena requires an adequate legal basis for the functioning of the domestic financial intelligence unit, represented by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering, its international cooperation and the consistent implementation of the measures by the debtors. By proposing a new law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, Slovenia will implement the fourth European Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing. Although the deadline for the transposition of its provisions into the Slovenian legal order is 26 June next year, the European Commission, due to the threats posed by the terrorist attacks, issued an action plan to strengthen the fight against the financing of terrorism on the basis of which Member States committed themselves to early transposition by 1 January next year. In addition to implementing the directive, the proposal for a new law also improves compliance of the Slovenian acquis with established international standards. It enhances the effectiveness of the money laundering and terrorist financing system by addressing the perceived shortcomings of the current law and by taking into account the recommendations issued by Slovenia by the Committee of Experts on the Evaluation of Anti-Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism in the Council of Europe. Slovenia will be evaluated from 7 to 18 November in the context of the fifth evaluation visit of MONEYVAL international experts. In view of the scope of the amendments and the additions, a new law based on the systematics has to be drawn up now in force. The key novelties of the bill are: the establishment of a register of effective owners to ensure transparency of the ownership structures of business entities; the mandate of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering for the conduct of on-the-spot inspections in order to improve the control system and more effective sanctioning; the implementation of a risk-based approach to improve the implementation of measures at the level of the debtors and at the national and European levels; the introduction of a broader definition of politically exposed persons, which will also include domestically exposed persons; the reduction of the threshold for the communication of cash transactions from EUR 30,000 to EUR 15,000, which is expected to have a preventive or dissuasive effect and constitute a greater obstacle to the conduct of illegal activities. At its meeting on 28 September, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted an amendment to Article 4 of the proposed law, which also defines SDH and the Banks Claims Management Society as committed to implementing measures to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The key objective is to implement the so-called customer knowledge principle in that part of the business, which results in the transition of assets from public or state to private spheres. It is recalled that, by establishing the status of the debtor, both entities are also required to implement a series of other measures and not only those relating to the review of the customer. As part of the public hearing, there has been an intensive search for solutions that represent more effective measures in the area under consideration. On the other hand, they do not pose unnecessary obstacles to the day-to-day operations of individual debtors. The proposed law currently represents the most optimal legal framework in terms of the operations of the debtors, the functioning of the Office and compliance with European rules and international standards. In line with the above, I propose that you support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall meet at its 28th meeting. 9. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee received the following additional material: a letter from the Association of Banks of Slovenia, an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, a letter from the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, an amendment of qualified investors, a review of amendments and a proposal for amendments by the Committee to Article 4 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Group and the Coalition's Group of Members. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory explanatory memorandum, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the draft law and said that the aim of the law, in addition to the transposition of the directive, was also a more effective system for combating money laundering and terrorist financing, strengthening cooperation between the Office and other state authorities, granting inspection powers to the Office and establishing appropriate penalties for non-compliance with legal provisions. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments on the individual article of the draft law. The comments of the service were partly taken into account by the amendments tabled. The Director of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism made further clarifications to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service concerning all comments raised. The discussion raised questions as to whether the law, as an obligation to implement measures to detect and prevent money laundering, covered all legal persons managing investments for third parties – were exposed to and supervised by the Slovenian State Holding and Bank Claims Management Company. Questions have also been raised regarding the level of penalties for those who do not comply with the legal provisions. Other members considered that Slovenia was in a good position to fight money laundering and terrorist financing in relation to other countries; however, the law needed to be adopted in order to ensure better operationalisation of the services involved and to give them additional powers and to provide certain guardians with legal persons involved in the management of state property. Representatives of the Government and the Office provided additional explanations and answers to the questions raised. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, did not adopt the three amendments tabled by the SDS Group of Members and also adopted the amendment of the Committee to Article 4 of the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u6	Hello! The proposed law does not change the essence of the system, which has been in place in Slovenia for a long time and removes certain grey zones. The key novelties are the reduction of the threshold for reporting cash transactions, the duty of lawyers to report suspicious transactions, the inclusion of domestic policies in the group of persons subject to specific supervision. We support all these solutions in the United Left. However, I would like to make two observations of a general political nature concerning the fight against terrorism or privatisation. We all know that the world's leading states are fighting against tax evasion and money laundering at a declaratory level; in practice, these same countries, such as the United States of America and the United Kingdom, are allowing for tax havens in their territory. A similar gap between the stated guidelines also applies to the fight against terrorism. Since 2001, the United States has often used the fight against terrorism to promote its geostrategic interests. In doing so, terrorist organisations, from Mujahids in Afghanistan to Islamists in Syria, often supported more or less directly. The financing of terrorism is defined in the proposed law as providing or collecting or attempting to provide or raise money or other assets for the purpose or aware that it will be used by terrorists or terrorist organisations. That is why there is much hypocrisy in the fact that the National Assembly on the one hand adopts such laws and, on the other hand, our country participates in a military coalition with the United States against ISIS, in which there are countries such as Saudi Arabia. The journal recently published information that Saudi Arabia was to spend $80 billion on the financing of Whabiism. Of course, vahabism is not terrorism in itself, but in Syria there are terrorist groups that depend on Qatari and Saudi money. It is known that the United States of America and the United Kingdom are arming the Saudi regime, which is also directly responsible for many civilian casualties in Yemen; but civilian casualties are clearly a problem for the West only when they can charge Russia with them. The well-intentioned liberals will say that Slovenia is too small to change that. True, we cannot change that, but we can get out of alliances with countries that could change it, and they will not. Just because you're small doesn't mean you can't have dignity and spine. Our second comment concerns the establishment of a register of actual owners of companies. In the United Left, we support this proposal. On the basis of this register, inspection services will be able to prevent the exploitation of workers through company chains. However, the register of actual owners is not a substitute for stopping privatisation. It is true that companies were often sold to dedicated companies with unclear ownership, but the problem of privatisation of Mercator, Žita, Helios or the Ljubljana Aerodrome is not that of selling them to an unknown owner. We know very well who these owners are. Mercator's new owner is a hugely self-produced company that kicks our suppliers out of Mercator's shelves. The problem with all these companies is that we have lost the top of the supply chain through privatisation in each sector, and thus we have also lost the accumulation for future investments and have allowed these companies to be decided in foreign power centres. Therefore, the register of actual owners is welcome, but there is no alternative to stopping privatisation. We'll support the marriage with these reservations. We will also support the amendment that the reporting obligations under this law also become breeders and traders of breeding animals; the government has not given exactly any reasons why they should be exempted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u7	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on its behalf, Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Irena Sodin, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The main objective of the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is to transpose Directive (EU) 2015/849; it is a very important directive. In addition, following the Government's claim, the new law seeks to remedy some of the identified problems of existing regulation in the Republic of Slovenia. These are: to ensure a global approach against money laundering and financing of terrorism through the application of international standards, where possible, also outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia; to improve the effectiveness of the system against money laundering and financing of terrorism in the Republic of Slovenia by strengthening the powers of the Office; to strengthen cooperation between the Office and other State authorities; to allocate inspection powers to the Office; to establish effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for non-compliance with legal provisions. The proposal also foresees the obligation to issue a national risk assessment for money laundering and terrorist financing aimed at identifying and mitigating risks and directing resources and powers in areas where risks are greater. In addition, each undertaking will also have to produce a risk assessment with policy, control and procedures to effectively mitigate and manage risks. On the basis of these, it must later implement measures. The Association of Banks of Slovenia made a number of comments at the stage of the examination of the draft law on its content. As a problematic provision, let us point out the requirement to set up independent internal audit services for small and medium-sized companies, which will focus exclusively on the issue of money laundering prevention. In doing so, the proposer uses only the scope of the operation, but not its nature, as provided for in Article 8 of the Directive. It is the criterion of the nature of the business that justifies the requirement for a specific internal audit service, since companies with an established service have this right because of their nature of business. Unfortunately, the applicant ignored this fact. Christian Democrats in the bill to cities also lack respect for the principle of proportionality. In certain cases, the proposal also introduces customer review requirements for a transaction of more than a thousand euros. This means reducing the border from 15,000 euros. However, despite the relatively lower risk, there are also data collection and record-keeping requirements. This brings new burdens for the debtors, which should be relatively less intense in terms of lower amounts and lower risk levels. In Nova Slovenija, we note that in the area under consideration, the role of law enforcement authorities, which must carry out their part of the responsibility, their mission to prosecute money laundering and financing terrorism, remains crucial and irreplaceable. In Novi Slovenija we also point out that at the meeting of the parent working body, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that there are still inconsistencies in the law with the Constitution and in terms of systemic shortcomings, as the coalition with the amendments did not fully remedy them. In New Slovenia, we will not support the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u9	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u10	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a law that we support in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, because it is a matter of transparency over property, transparency over money flows and what we particularly note is that it is time for us to start to control institutions that are very important for the development of our society, these are SDH and DUTB. And to show transparently how money flows are made from these institutions abroad, perhaps from abroad; for the goal is to find out who caused the bank hole, how it has been repaired and where these transactions are now flowing, that those who have caused the bank hole do not get these funds back. What does marriage do? This is a shift in the world because it is a matter of implementing the directive to limit tax havens and to speed up the detection of money. Of course, it is terrorism that is fueled by these flows of dirty money; and it is a shift in the modern world, not to follow and detect terrorists directly, but through flows of money. This, on the other hand, also reveals so-called white-collar crime, modern economic and financial crime. And these are the positive effects. What else does marriage bring besides others? It also brings the inspection powers of the Office, which is good, and what I have specifically highlighted, cooperation with other institutions. This is what leads to the future – cooperation at the international level and cooperation within the Ministry of Finance and within the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia. The negative side has already been pointed out by colleague Horvat – that all the recommendations of the Legal and Legislative Service have not been taken into account. I'm sorry that not all the opposition's amendments have been complied with. I would point out that the law brings about the first steps in the area of liability of legal persons and transparency of ownership. Of course, the path to complete transparency of ownership and of all transactions related to SDH and DUTB is still a long way to go. What's the problem? The problems remain in evidence, high legal standards and previous crimes. The problem of the law is exceptions and these risk assessments. I welcome the fact that for the first time, it has been implemented in law by the Institute, which allows transparent tracking of money in lawyers, because in the world we have long been alerting the problem of so-called whitewashing, that it is also a matter of legal problems that are being shared by law firms. It is therefore right to follow the money on this segment as well. Participation in international institutions and participation in international investigation teams is important and the basis of the law provides for this cooperation. To conclude, the law is aimed at the future, but it lacks that element of cybercrime, so I think it will soon see some changes. And that this is the first step in proving the liability of legal persons, there must also be another sectoral legislation that will regulate the status of legal persons — how to establish them, how to prevent chaining; and how, when a legal person ceases, we seek the responsibility of civilians. We support the law at this stage, but we will actively participate in further changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf, Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u12	Good morning! Greetings to the Secretary of State and the Director of the Bureau! Today, we are adopting a new law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism, which will allow Slovenia to take a step forward in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. What's this all about? Directives of the European Union are basically transposed, as my predecessors have already said; but the Office also receives new powers. Furthermore, what is very important is the establishment of a register of actual owners, who are the final owners of an undertaking that controls or otherwise manages the transaction on their behalf. In the new register to be maintained by the Agency for Public Records and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, it is also envisaged that, once the register of beneficial owners is established, such data will also be exchanged. The Anti-Money Office will finally be given, we can say, inspection powers that allow it to exercise control over all the debtors on the spot, which is very important. The current regulation does not allow the Office to do so, nor does it allow optimal control over the implementation of the existing law and, as a result, control over the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Therefore, the proposed innovations will contribute to improving the functioning of the whole system. Sanctions will be in line with the European Union's penalties and directives, and in certain cases they can also reach €5 million and 10% of annual transport. Raising and positioning in several amounts still poses an increased risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, and the bill reduces the thresholds to be reported to the Office by the debtors on cash transactions. We have reduced them from 30,000 to 15,000 euros. The law is also important in terms of the transfer of funds to tax-favoured jurisdictions, which are generally at risk from the point of view of money laundering and terrorist financing. This will also help to ensure the transparency of ownership structures, business entities and, in particular, those whose owners are foreign companies established in offshore, financial centres or tax havens where owners are hidden or need not be disclosed. This will prevent the abuse of business entities for money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as in other areas such as non-transparent ownership. If I keep going. In addition, it should be noted that the DUTB and SDH will also be committed to the new transmission of information. The proposed extension of commitments follows the principle of transparency of business and follows the trend towards consistent implementation of the customer knowledge principle, as well as the principle of economic and transparent use of public funds to which added entities are committed. Therefore, it was necessary and crucial to ensure the transparency of the DUTB and SDH in that part of their business, which represented legal persons, which resulted in the transfer of assets from the public or state to the private sphere. The primary objective is to know your client for reasons of transparency and economy. In doing so, it is necessary to know who in the private sphere is the owner of public or state property, and this is also possible in the law. The bill also seeks to remove administrative barriers. As part of the upgrading of the Information System of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, it will be possible to switch from partial to complete electronic communication of the required data, which represents a financial and administrative burden for the debtors. At the same time, we are very pleased that the law is supported by such an expert in this field as Dr. Bojan Dobovšek. For all of this, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the law. We hope to take this step forward in the fight against money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in its name mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we look positively at the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. We are convinced that the law introducing the European Union Directive is going in a positive direction. Above all, we are convinced that they are going in the right direction of complementarity and changes that have come from the proposer, namely the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the direction of granting additional powers to institutions dealing with the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Here we have in mind primarily inspection control. On the one hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we regret that the coalition has not supported the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are convinced that the monetary amount involved in the screening of customers in the field of gambling and in the area of payment of individual items should be equal. We have also tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to extend a set of commitments to this law, particularly to those entities involved in breeding and selling breeding animals. We will continue to make further arguments as to why it makes sense for the debtors to expand. We expect Members and Members of the Coalition to listen to us and to support this amendment. It has been said enough, we are convinced that the bill brings a positive direction; therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u16	President, colleagues, colleagues, Secretary of State! The Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism is a law that we will support in the Desus Group. We will support it because it follows the direction of addressing the problem of tax havens in order to introduce a register of actual owners of companies. The finding of Desus has been indisputable for a long time that the great problem is the outflow of capital from country to country, and sometimes even its backflow back to Slovenia; we know for what purposes. The ongoing problem of terrorist attacks, the discovery of so-called Panamanian documents, reminds us of how much and irreparable damage money laundering and terrorist financing can cause. The law will establish a register to ensure greater transparency of the ownership structures of business entities, which will have to provide information about their actual owners. According to your household, no more selling to coughs. The threshold for reporting cash transactions will be reduced from EUR 30 000 to EUR 15 000 and a mandatory notification of cash transactions will also be introduced for lawyers, lawyers and notaries, which has not been the case so far. The function of the State Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and its powers to obtain data will be precisely defined. To date, the Office has exercised only indirect control over the debtors; the proposal also gives it powers to carry out inspection controls. This will also allow inspections of non-primary debtors to be carried out and, if necessary, will be able to carry out inspections on other debtors who already have the so-called primary supervisor. We have also adopted an amendment to Article 4 on the home working body, by which the obligation to implement measures to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing is also extended to the Slovenian State holding company and, more recently, to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims or Bad Bank. This was one of the main solutions in the rejected Slovenian State Holding Act and we are saving it here in an appropriate manner. The sale of state property to companies whose owners are not verifiable poses a major and serious problem. After reporting to the media, it is estimated that out of eight companies sold on the sales list, from this famous list 15, three ended up in the hands of cassetters or collectors from tax-friendly environments; and two companies sold became part of the ownership chain in which companies from so-called tax havens play a key role. In the Desus Group, we reiterate that we feel that the global tax oasis system, which offers the possibility of tax evasion, is very harmful and has long-term and irreparable consequences. These tax evasions could be useful for the construction of schools, for the construction of roads, improvement of public health, more lunches, higher pensions and could still be listed. We believe that the law, on the one hand, will provide effective measures to prevent and detect money laundering and terrorist financing; on the other hand, it will in no way create new bureaucratic barriers to daily business for individual debtors. In one word, it is possible to introduce preventive measures so that there will not be just a kurativ, which is sometimes or very often expensive and has many irreparable consequences, but there will be no additional obstacles to the operation of all business operators. For all of this, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Law in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u17	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you for your words and your warm welcome to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, in which we will support the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, as it prevents the use of legitimate business transactions to launder money of illicit origin or even to finance terrorist activities. We are aware that the law is not completely cleared and that a European directive is not fully transposed, which is also one of the reasons for today's adoption of a new law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism. We are pleased, however, that in the legislative process, when the law came into the National Assembly, we have pointed out that there is no Slovenian State Holding company or so-called Bad Banks. Therefore, we can say that we have certainly done a very important task as Members in controlling the management of capital investments and selling bad claims, which is one of the basic tasks of both Members and Members. It is a matter of the fact that the Slovenian state holding company manages 13 billion people's assets; and that we have also invested 5 billion funds in the rehabilitation of banks, which is also possible to understand and present as a human contribution, as we have therefore committed ourselves. It would probably not have come if this law had been passed earlier, to cases like those that have happened recently, where we were all pleased, at least so shown that we were able to sell Cimos for a total of EUR 110 million. The company, which is top-notch in its technology, employing a thousand 700 people, was exhausted until this stage, which was eventually sold for a total of 110 million. What happened in connection with this property is what we should also check on the basis of the provisions of this law; but this has not been included in this process. The following is certainly the case of Nova Kredittna banka Maribor. In all these processes, no one had to explain exactly what we paid with a recapitalisation of 1 billion to whom and why this property was then sold for 250 million euros, since it was sold to the company resulting from the tax oasis. At the same time, there were poor claims that were disposed of by Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, amounting to €1 billion and €22 million. The discount on which this claim was transferred to a bad bank amounted to 61.31 % on average. This means that we have taken over 646 million euros by taxpayers and that the bad bank has paid 374 million euros for a good billion. It's that field that opens up a lot of speculation. Therefore, we are pleased that the bad bank is involved in this process and that we will be able to talk about not only asking the weak many times today, including from readings to prove where they are buying what they are selling, and at what price; and we are charging them with taxes. At least such criteria as those applicable to defences should also apply to bankers. And we are confident that this marriage will be a big step in this direction. The fact is that when selling these claims and capital investments in both companies, they will have to verify the actual ownership and origin of the capital they make their business. New tools and rules, such as the European Register of Natural Persons, Actual Owners of Enterprises, in our view, must apply to both those companies operating the assets, are essential for us to follow the origin of the money that buys the Slovenian property. An important change is the fact that the Anti-Money Laundering Office receives inspection powers through this law; therefore, it will no longer depend on the information provided to it by the debtors, but will also be able to verify them on the spot in the case of the debtors. In fact, this also means traceability of data and clear procedures in case of suspicions. These are the reasons why we will support the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism. We expect that we will also be able to clear and supplement this law by fully implementing the European Directive in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u19	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As we have already said in our position in the introduction, we have decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to repeat the amendment that we have already proposed on the home labour body on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy; that is to say, those who are subject to this law should be extended. We propose that a new undertaking be added to paragraph 20 of the first paragraph, namely those engaged in breeding or the sale of breeding animals. We are confident that such a step would be right. In view of all the information available on the Internet and with the official bodies, we can come to the conclusion that this area abroad is also one of the most critical, as the sale of mainly tribal horses has already revealed that there is a considerable suspicion or a significant risk of money laundering. I regret, on the one hand, that our proposal was not supported by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and that the Government has refused to support this amendment without at least one argument. And that is why I call today, Madam Secretary of State, for you to redefine yourself to this amendment. In the event that you do not support or oppose it, give specific arguments why the Government does not support the amendment proposal, namely, that there is a proliferation of those who are subject to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism by Breeding or Selling Tribal Animals.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u21	First, Mrs Irena Sodin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think the Government has already mentioned in the debate on the working body why it does not support this amendment, but I will re-examine our explanation. The types of undertakings set out in Article 4 shall be determined according to international standards and according to the European Directive. During the debate on the law, Mr Horvat mentioned in Article 2 that the principle of proportionality should be followed in the law. In determining the debtors, we certainly follow this principle of proportionality. According to our behaviour in Slovenia, so far there has been no case of any such infringements in the sale of breeding animals. Secondly, the Regulation, issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, has a very broad definition of the labelling of breeding animals, quote: "The domestic animal is every animal of the species bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine, horse, bee, chicken, rabbit and fish species, which is kept for its benefit, and lives under its protection and care and is not a wild animal according to the rules on conservation of nature; the breeding animal is every domestic animal assessed and protected at individual selection stages in accordance with the breeding programme in which it is included." If we follow that so far there have been no violations in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing arising from breeding animals, a measure that would impose additional checks on operators in the agricultural sector — that is, all that comes from the law: customer review, record keeping, data storage — would be an extremely disproportionate measure. In addition, we have in law a dictatorship which requires Fursu to verify all cash transactions of all entities if payments are made in cash and the value of these transactions exceeds EUR 5,000. For the reasons I have mentioned, the Government does not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u23	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State, Director of the Bureau! As has already been said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support most of the solutions in this law because they give greater transparency and also a greater role to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism; here I am thinking mainly of the inspection role. To date, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism does not have this role, which means, in other words, that it identifies easily possible perceptions of money laundering and then transmits data to other institutions. On the other hand, Sam has no role in actually being able to inspect someone who may be doing this for the purpose of financing terrorism. I think that's why this is the highest value of this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party more than a year ago, we proposed to amend the existing law. Unfortunately, the solution was not adopted at the time, but the change was precisely about providing the Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Office with inspection supervision. In this regard, I have a point of view, even given how many inspectors will actually be involved in these inspections. The number is mentioned, and three other inspectors of the council are expected to do so, resulting from the law or the explanation. Given the scale of financing terrorism and money laundering, I have a certain reservation here, and it will probably be possible to change this with annual plans, because I think that more emphasis will have to be given to this, including in view of the development of international terrorism, in view of illegal, semi-legal transactions abroad. I think the Office will have to gain value or even power over all of this. Somehow I am not satisfied with the government's response on why we do not accept our amendment, which extends the reporting obligations, because this excuse for a European directive, as I understand it, is somehow twofold. Ambiguity in this respect that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also makes comments to Article 2 and says that the provisions of the bill in certain elements are substantially different, such as the definition of money laundering under Directive 2015/849 and the other directives listed here. To be clear, this is where the Law-Legal Service goes in a different direction, because the Directive also defines the debtors in relation to the intentional act. In addition, the Directive provides for a conscious element that the perpetrator must be aware that the property originates from a criminal offence. The proposal for a law does not cover all these practices which constitute money laundering under the Directive, in particular non-actions in points C and D; therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service proposes that the definition of an action be fully aligned with the definition in Directive (EU) 2015/849. It is another substantive matter, at least so says the Law-Legal Service, and I must say that there is no reason why I should not believe it; but here the Government is withdrawing from this directive. However, when additional reporting obligations for money laundering are to be included in this amendment, it refers to this Directive. Now there's this duality that I don't understand. This would actually contribute to the fact that this money laundering would have been substantially less, as this reason, mentioned by the Secretary of State, was not to be seen as not having detected transactions in connection with money laundering in this area. We keep talking about preventing money laundering. The emphasis is on prevention. If we wait for a huge number of transactions and these transactions to occur, then we will be in a situation where the whole world is today, which some of you have already talked about, colleagues and colleagues, that we have tax havens, that we also have money in these tax havens that comes from crimes. But we need to know that tax havens are not prohibited. The problem is that we get money in these oasis that comes from money laundering or crime; that's another problem, but this is about prevention. I don't understand why waiting for some transactions to happen to expand; and we will react later. This is no harm to anyone here; even in connection, if it isn't, then it's not really there. It is also possible to introduce a simplified solution so that I will not say that this is administratively demanding, probably even in this case possible. But it is possible to show the possibility that this can happen and that it can be prevented; that is all that is. The point is that this is an indicator; it is simply to show to those who would like it that they cannot actually do it because it is already covered in this law. The whole of Europe has been waiting for several decades to recall the need to do something about tax evasion and tax havens. Fifty years if you want. Fifty of them were developing, and now the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development remembered three, four years ago that it would now do something here. But why, if we're talking about prevention?Oh, my God! Let's prevent it from giving us a sign that we can prevent it from happening in advance. These arguments, in my opinion, are not such as to prevent this amendment from being adopted by the Slovenian Democratic Party; especially because I think this can only be positive. This law has many positive matters written in these articles. I think it's good for the future, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u25	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. As regards this Article 4 and the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I accept your concern and I think it's in place, but here we have to keep an eye on a matter, a true diction of tribal animals, as the Secretary of State has already said, is extremely broad. It's one thing that's questionable. And the other issue is to set up a body to oversee it, which is likely to fall also under the Ministry of Agriculture, not just under this. As we speak of this concern and the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, we ourselves know that there are greater rejections in the sale of paintings or precious metals. The next stage at which the Office has actually obtained some kind of validity begins to take place is that inspection authority. Speaking of inspection powers, the next question is immediately raised, as Mr Shircelj has already mentioned that these powers will certainly bring a need in the future, and it is also worth considering, after the increase in the number of employees in the direction of the inspection bodies. In this context, these inspection powers will also need to be understood and welcomed. Among other things, during this period of Slovenia's operations there were some anomalies, which also appeared in the business in the law offices because it was dealing with cash. Here too, the office now has a greater opportunity and validity. Above all, it is important to note that this office is starting to operate on efficiency and operationality; and by this law we have certainly given this. However, it was also said that, as far as this Article 4 is concerned, if I return to the fact that at least in Slovenia there was no great deviation in this matter. It may be worth considering some prevention in the future, but those who engage in agriculture, at least to the best of their knowledge, are not some high risk factor in money laundering and terrorist financing. Perhaps this may occur in the future, but in this state, and as far as I know, the office itself has not detected some anomalies in the operation of these debtors who deal with tribal animals, so I think it makes no sense for me to spread this to some extent. It is a matter of focusing in this article on certain segments that are truly critical or have critical indicators for detecting money laundering and terrorist financing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u27	Anybody else want to discuss this? Now I'd like you to apply. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u28	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, you have not convinced me with the arguments you have stated why the Government does not support our proposal for the expansion of the debtors, namely the breeding or sale of breeding animals, particularly in the field of the reselling of tribal horses. You said that one of the main arguments was that, at a given time, in the present or in the past, there were no suspicions of money laundering or financing of terrorism. I now wonder, Madam Secretary of State, whether you at the Slovenian State Holding and Bank Claims Management Company have seen the suspicion of money laundering and terrorist financing that you have committed them to Article 4; or all of these debtors, who are, whether you have seen the suspicion of money laundering or terrorist financing. Because your argument was – no, we do not support it because we have not so far seen the suspicion of money laundering. And from that, we can interpret that in all the other pledges, you've already seen the suspicion of money laundering. Then I'd like to know what measures you've taken. And I'm really asking the coalition to consider why you are so persistently refusing to support this amendment. You have already rejected this amendment on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy without any arguments. I suggest you take a little look at the archives, what can happen to the sale of tribal horses and what has already happened in this area, or what conclusions they have come to. Not only in the United States, where the Mexican drug cartel buys large quantities of farms, breeding animals, and there was a finding of millions of dollars in money laundering. Such cases have already occurred in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u29	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you very much, President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! I don't think there's any dilemma in this marriage as far as I'm concerned about either supporting or not supporting. Of course I support you. What is the basis for us to adopt this law? The formal legal basis is Directive (EU) 2015/849. Otherwise, the deadline is set for the matter to be transferred to the Slovenian legal order by 26. 6. 2017 due to latent and even detected threats posed by terrorist attacks, it is also in some way a decision through the action plan to implement it in our legal order by the end of 2016. It is right that once a week or a month before, we may adopt some recommendations, some directives, rather than waiting for the last day. Perhaps this, in addition to the transposition of the directive, indirectly follows the objective of aligning the Slovenian acquis with the generally established international standards in this area and the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force. I think it's only right that we listen to this matter and accept this matter. What's essential to my taste in this marriage? The first is this preventive movement. We all know that prevention is always, always and everywhere, much cheaper, much more appropriate than later curative treatment; that is, when you have to treat something, in the meantime, irreparable harmful consequences can arise. I am not saying that these consequences have come from the fact that some of our companies from the famous top 15 companies have already sold; I also said this in the presentation of our group's position that quite a few of our companies, in the past, have turned out to be paradoxical horses, silver, gold, whatever you want, in some of the pieces or some suspicious ownership structures. And we do not know how these companies will function in the future, what will happen to the employees, what will happen to development and so on. The main solution to this law is the establishment of a register of owners with a view to ensuring the transparency of ownership structures. After home "no more", nothing more [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, may I continue?Oh, my God! We're probably talking a little bit wider than just the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u31	In the beginning, it's always [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u32	I'll touch that in part of my sentence. So there will be no more ribbons, there will be a transparent knowledge of who is being sold, what is the purpose of the sale. I believe the matter will be transparent in the future. It's also right to go down. For my taste, I would even lower the reporting of cash transactions, and I believe that I would not make serious bureaucratic obstacles, even lower than I now believe, from 30,000 to 15,000. It is also right that the obligation to communicate these cash transactions be transferred to the legal profession, lawyers, law firms and notaries. Finally, not least, it is also important to define precisely the tasks of the Anti-Money Laundering Office, to ensure that it is direct and indirect as well as inspection. And I believe that, in all the things that this law brings, it is probably a very minimised possibility to bypass the letter of the law, even though some of us — hear, see — have recently made this very productive and work very hard. But I think rules like this, all these distorted ideas in the Cali can be prevented and suppressed. And now that part of the sentence on the proposed amendment. I was missing on the committee where you've already discussed this; and I'm aware of the arguments for and against, and I've heard them here too. I am convinced by the arguments against this amendment, so I will not support the amendment; the law as a whole is with great joy, to avoid possible and future lack of transparency in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u33	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u34	Madam President, thank you once again for your word. It's interesting when the coalition doesn't have any arguments, it starts talking about something third. This was now a fine example of this practice when 5 minutes were spent on the third thing; not a debate on all these arguments. I expect you, Madam Secretary of State, to respond. I asked you another question. Did you at SDH and DUTB detect suspicions of money laundering or terrorist financing that you have classified as debtors; and that you are now preventing this argument from being included among the debtors primarily those involved in the sale or sale of breeding animals, horses?Oh, my God! A respected coalition and a respected representative of the Government, is it one of the arguments not to support this proposal to be included among those who are subject to the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, those involved in the sale of tribal horses, including that one of the members or members of the ministerial assembly or of its immediate family members is engaged in this activity?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u35	Ms Irena Sodin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Again, I am answering a question that I have addressed earlier on the proportionality of the law applied in certain categories covered by the law. I do not know if the purpose of this law would be to impose on beekeepers, breeders of breeding rabbits, to establish records and implement all measures resulting from this law in order to inspect customers, to store data. I don't know how many bees are dealing with bees for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. In view of the practice and the previous reference to the application of proportionality by Mr Horvath, he referred to Article 15 where medium-sized and large enterprises are concerned, and therefore we believe that this law has also taken account of the principle of proportionality here; this is not the same category as to take account of breeds of breeding animals. I don't know anything about your references. From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, we have followed the transposition of Article 4 of the Directive in the drafting of the law, as far as the debtors are concerned. But when you ask me if we've included SDH and a bad bank in the marriage due to suspicions of money laundering, I'm sure it's not. The sales process followed the transparency of the sale of state property and the article was included, if I understand correctly, with the consent of all the parties in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u37	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u38	Dear Secretary of State, you have now acknowledged for yourself what was the cause of the classification of SDH and DUTB – those disagreements between coalitions and blemishes that took place in the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act. This has become the existing practice of this government and this coalition to double the laws; if something does not go into one marriage, you put the matter in another law. Now there was a key argument, as you said, to place SDH and DUTB on this list. Dear Secretary of State, either you don't want to or you don't know the exact nature of this law. Not just beekeepers and those who raise breeding rabbits, as you stated. It is not necessary for each customer to be checked, as suspicions always arise, but not for each client; neither do major customers report any suspicions and keep no records. And once again, a well-respected coalition, to consider why you so strongly oppose this amendment's proposal. Or is it true that the reasons why you do not support this are that one of the members or members of the ministerial assembly and their close relatives are engaged in the sale of tribal horses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u39	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u40	I'm sorry, but I have to respond to this. These are insinuations that go far from what we're talking about. Already in your proposal, if you please, you have written that a tribal animal is defined in the Rules on the Marking of Breeding Animals and Other Tribal Material. If you look there, you'll see the width of all this. And now to insinuate what one of the members of the government has; I think we are going too far and we are moving away from the darkness. The topic is the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. We also have the Director of the Office here, and it has already been said at the meeting of the Finance Committee why they feel that this is not necessary. I think the director of the office that works in this area knows where there are some possible anomalies, which he also draws attention to and says. It has been said many times why this should not have happened because there were no indicators here. Why are DUTB and SDH involved? Clearly, because of political pressures and the final stage of prevention. If we're going to spread this and dig far, we're not going to get anywhere, we need to focus on this law. This law is basically very advanced and good and follows the intentions that all of us in the National Assembly are inclined to make an effective and operational office that will be able to fight money laundering; where we know that there are always some holes and there are always some obstacles to the legal basis. But the important thing is that this office is starting to work; and by doing so we allow it to work. If we look for picks and bolts in all these matters, we will not go far, because this circle of pledges can then spread indefinitely and we can talk everywhere about some possible money laundering or financing of terrorism. But if we're real and we see some basics, someone who, say, knows these activities will know exactly that somewhere we can frame this. The proposal by the Office was such, the opinion was given, and I do not think that it is necessary to waste time and spread all of this by going to some extremes that do not lead to some efficiency, rationality and operationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u41	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I thank the Secretary of State for explaining our concerns expressed in the position of the New Slovenia Group on respect for the principle of proportionality. I would like to say honestly that this law has some good solutions; I have presented, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, where we still have concerns with regard to the Association of Banks of Slovenia, given the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is not negligible. That is why we foretold that we would not oppose the law; we would not support it. But now to the amendment. I wonder if it would hurt to accept the SDS amendment because the sale of breeding animals is extremely important. Since it's extremely important, there's a lot of money in the back. You have always defined the sale or market of breeding animals, and I will give you one example: the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Ukraine, on the other. Let us leave now what is the fate of this agreement, but there you will find precise provisions on how the market for breeding animals must run. My friend Pogačnik certainly has important information and has specifically highlighted the sale or sale of tribal horses. This also means a status symbol for some today, which is also right, but I don't know if it would really be such a bad provision if these amendments were adopted. Would this hurt the law, not the law; would it hurt people or benefit people? Would this prevent any money laundering and terrorist financing? Here's the key question to me. I have to say, I don't know the market for tribal horses and other tribal animals, but I believe there can be a lot of money in this business. That is why I am also inviting the coalition to consider and adopt this amendment. We'll back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u43	Ms Irena Sodin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Let me answer the question raised by Mr Horvat. When we set up the tax registers, there was a huge debate about the obligations that people are subject to by setting up these tax registers. In Slovenia many people are involved in agriculture, not only professionally, professionally smaller percentage of the population, but also as a complementary activity. I don't know if the purpose of this law, where we haven't detected any violations, especially in the area of money laundering and terrorist financing, is to order all farmers to establish records, then adopt different rules, to lead the parties. Moreover, at this point we do not have a supervisory authority to do so. It is likely that a specific body should be established within the Ministry of Agriculture, where all these records would then be obtained, rules where supervision would also take place; and consequently, suspicious transactions should be reported to the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Mr Horvat, this is certainly an disproportionate cost that all farmers, all who deal with bee farming, breed of breeding rabbits or fish, should provide. From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance and from the perspective of the risks arising from this sector, this does not seem to respect the principle of proportionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u45	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Determination of Public Interest in Culture, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Anton Persak, Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very briefly. The purpose of this law is to eliminate some irrationality in the law so far or excessive requirements that relate in particular to the education of members of the boards of public institutions and the validation of the strategic plans of public institutions. However, the essence is in three provisions, those which regulate the issue of the National Programme for Culture, which we want to define as a truly strategic act of planning in the field of culture, and accordingly to extend the duration of this act, which according to the length of investment cycles in our country – let's say by such a strategic act the legislative changes envisaged and then by checking how laws actually achieve their impact – probably necessary. Let me say this immediately, because there have been some concerns about what this means for municipal cultural planning acts. The provision on municipal, local cultural programmes remains unchanged. Moreover, these municipal programs tend to have a different rhythm in most cases because they are not accepted by the municipalities at the same time as national cultural programmes, so that we do not expect any special embarrassment here. In addition, it is a matter of solving or at least starting to resolve some of the issues of self-employed people in the field of culture, in particular to facilitate their situation, and the question of conditions or better opportunities for the retirement of ballet dancers whose working time, if I may say so, is shorter due to the nature of this art than most other employees. With the provision now included in the law, we are actually allowing them to retire early or retire with all rights before the end of the 40s. Let me tell you something else about the amendment. This amendment, relating to the transitional provision, does not change the law in substance, only removes the possibility or risk of legal void in relation to the treatment of the applications of self-employed persons, as time could lead to delay in these last months. The amendments to the regulation which regulates this are already being prepared so that we can adopt it in the Government as soon as the law enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u47	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Culture is at its 14th regular session of 7. Ten. 2016 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 70th ordinary session of 9. 9. 2016 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service and has made some comments to it. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups followed their opinion. In some articles of the bill, however, she had some comments. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. However, her representative explained that the proposal removes certain administrative obstacles and burdens identified in the implementation of the applicable law, complements and technically builds on the provision on the professional insurance of ballet dancers and regulates the status of self-employed in the field of culture. With a view to improving understanding and preventing the misuse of the law, they also proposed an amendment to the new Article 82.b. Within the deadline of business, the amendments were tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups and the Joint Left Group. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by Culture Minister Anton Peršak. The debate focused on the extended period of validity of the National Programme for Culture, which some considered to be too long in view of the fast-tracking situation in society. Others felt that it was necessary for a longer period of time because of a different cycle that was not linked to the mandates of ministers. In the case of self-employed persons in culture, some have pointed out a comparison between the net amount and the comparable gross salary of a public official, since self-employed persons have to pay social security contributions and other benefits; they are paid by the employer in the case of a public employee. The Ministry explained that the minimum payment would take into account the amount of the co-financed share by the State budget, the type and volume of work and the remuneration for comparable jobs in the public sector system; or, if there is no comparable job, the payment provided for by the collective agreement of comparable activities. There was also some talk on the education of members of public institutions. The majority of the panellists supported the training of the members, as they believe that expertise is often not the criteria for their appointment. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u49	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u50	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian culture is a treasurer of national creation over the centuries, so we are proud of it and want to preserve it, while at the same time promoting the creativity and cultural participation of contemporary creators with appropriate legislation. For the present and future of the national community, culture is indispensable. Without Slovenian culture there would be neither Slovenian state nor Slovenian politics. The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture brings a number of cultural changes and innovations. Christian Democrats support the proposal to speed up procedures for the adoption of strategic plans for public institutions, which means removing some administrative obstacles. It is interesting to see a new option for self-employed people in culture who can be registered for several activities. The proposer himself notes that the status of self-employed in culture is currently poor. The Ministry will therefore have sufficient challenges in implementing this law. The proposaler seems to be more concerned with the question of self-employed people in culture in order to ensure that they are insured; however, the quality of products may sometimes be questionable. However, changes in the payment of social security contributions to self-employed persons who are registered in the register are going in the right direction; as well as the establishment of a minimum payment for self-employed persons in a culture who, on the basis of a contract, perform work under a programme or a project of a public institution financed by public funds. Let us mention the provisions on professional insurance for ballet dancers resulting from a long but constructive public debate. These solutions provide a legal basis for greater safety for cultural workers and less opportunities for abuse of their work and effort. It is right to simplify the appointment of members of the boards of public institutions. The question remains, however, whether there are always candidates in the councils of public institutions in the field of culture, who have also come into this function professionally. In Nova Slovenija, we are interested in how it has not been established previously that there are also institutions in the register of public institutions in the field of culture that have not been established under the umbrella of the Cultural Act. Unfortunately, this is happening all too often in our country in various areas. Members of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats will be supported by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u51	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture also, according to the Group of Non-Related Members, brings solutions that represent the necessary steps to update the Slovenian cultural model. The changes presented in connection with the self-employed in culture and the solutions prepared on the basis of the recommendation of the National Council for Culture are appropriate for us. However, the expectation of the National Council for Culture on the integration and coordination of the national strategy with locals needs to be highlighted here. Of course, in our view, the novelty is not entirely in line with our understanding of legislation and understanding the implementation of legislation. The current regime provides for compulsory training of members of the Council of Public Institutions within the first six months of their term of office and then again each year. Practice shows that only first training is provided, and all other training is not done, which is wrong and means non-compliance with legal provisions. And how is that sanctioned? By adapting the law to the actual state of affairs. Do you imagine that any failure to comply with a legal provision is resolved by adapting the law to a state of affairs?Oh, my God! We also have concerns and individual questions about the implementation of cultural pockets and work scholarships for self-employed people in culture. The current principle of the allocation of earmarked funds Whoever comes first must not be implemented in this case. We therefore hope that the Ministry will actually extend the possibility of allocating funds for the purpose of cultural allowances and work grants, as well as the choice of a type of procedure that will be more appropriate in terms of available resources. As already indicated in the introduction, we will support the amendment of the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Members of the Parliament despite some perceptions and concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u53	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which we are considering today, contains only a few minor amendments and additions, which we welcome and believe are necessary in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. What we want is for major changes, systemic changes, comprehensive reform of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture to be very soon on our parliamentary benches and to be thoroughly discussed. Here we have in mind the early preparation of the starting points for the reconstruction of the cultural model, which is also the first of the points in the coalition contract, in the Culture chapter; and this is the basic starting point for achieving the objectives of our government's culture. Following this proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture, which we are talking about today, the national programme for culture is defined as a cultural policy strategy to be adopted for a period of at least eight years, and the Government adopts a four-year action plan setting out the objectives, the extent of the resources and indicators to achieve and achieve the objectives set. As stated in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we expect that this will be adequately defined and that we will have no difficulty in implementing or assessing the reality of the National Programme for Culture. I'll talk about it later in the debate. The draft law introduces the possibility for the State or the local community to hire suitable private property for organisations carrying out cultural programmes or projects in the public interest when it does not have the appropriate spatial infrastructure. The lease is concluded on the basis of established public interest and must not exceed ten years; this certainly seems to us to be a very welcome novelty. We further welcome the arrangement that an individual can easily register to manage several specialised professions in the field of culture. We can say that here legislation follows the way in which art works, because artists intervene in different kinds so that they can eventually create some artistic work. Similarly, a new provision is welcome for the re-entry of self-employed persons in a culture for an individual who has already been entered into a register with the same specialised profession to check the condition that the individual is not a beneficiary of the pension when re-entry. Thus, he does not have to go through the entire registration process again from the beginning to the end. The data show that the situation of self-employed people in culture is very difficult and unpredictable, so in our parliamentary group we conducted many interviews on the topic of the proposed new 82.b. and seriously examined the comments and warnings of NGOs. That is why we have not supported the proposal of the United Left Amendment, which has taken on the proposal of the Glossa, which would extend the range of commitments to the minimum payment of self-employed in culture. The latter could have fatal consequences for their continued operation. Many NGOs would not have sufficient resources or would not be able to meet these legal obligations. The bill amends, inter alia, the arrangements for the professional pension of ballet dancers, allowing them greater social security. Such arrangements shall be heard for various artistic practices and for the work of artists in general. Of course, this also raises a question about a possible similar arrangement, such as the area of modern dance or other comparable professions. This issue should also begin to be addressed taking into account the comparability of obtaining education for a particular profession, the requirement to give up the profession, the difficulty of training, exercise and the like. This raises a broader question, which should be addressed and prepared by the competent ministry in due course. In view of everything I have said, Members of the Modern Centre's proposal will support and look forward to its more comprehensive reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u55	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u56	Your Honor! For the government of Mira Cerar, more than half the mandate or otherwise, this government has used more than half of its time to implement the measures and promises it has made to citizens and citizens before the elections. Of course, we would have acted irresponsiblely and turned completely naive if we had any concrete expectations from this government, since it is the leader of this coalition of the Modern Centre Party, which was created two months before the elections and without a proper programme. If I am a bit maliceful and borrow the words of my colleague Matić, the Lady of the Modern Centre Party has used the time of two years at least to get Members and Members to know each other at all. So let's put the joke aside. The government record on the confirmation of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is of considerable concern. It is a fundamental provision in the field of culture, and so far the Government or the competent Ministry of Culture has been able to prepare only minor corrections or changes. This is acknowledged by the government and the ministry; and without any hindrance. Although a thorough change or renewal of the cultural model is yet to be prepared, there is no such thing in view of the pace of over-optimism so far. These minor changes, respected, have proved to be incomplete and superficial on the competent Committee on Culture. This was also the case with a discussion by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, who was one of the longer-term members of the Committee. The bill is a number of partial solutions which unfortunately do not bring more concrete and radical solutions in the area of cultural policy. This was somehow confirmed in the debate and cannot be avoided by coalition Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not object in any way to the regulation of ballet dancers and self-employed; but this is far from all the changes we need in the field of culture. There are still no changes to improve the functioning of public institutions with a view to cost-effectiveness of cultural programmes in the public interest and changes to address unnecessary administrative obstacles. There is no progress in the distribution of public funds and a better evaluation of copyright; cultural goods remain inaccessible to a wider range of people. There are still no key changes to stop successful cultural creators from going abroad, where they reap success with their knowledge and artistic cord; and on this account also the country in which they operate. It remains open to questions about what or what projects we will encourage in the co-financing country, which is a broader public interest; and which projects are the ones we will leave to market regulation. All this and much more is what we would expect from the Minister of Culture today. Instead of the Minister and his team seeking concrete solutions to improve the state of culture today, this moment, for this time; we are dealing with some strategies that go far beyond, in the time of other governments, other ministers and other priorities. The current problems, which unfortunately are few, remain. We will not oppose the proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we expect the Minister to take the job seriously and bring a proposal for comprehensive solutions to this National Assembly as soon as possible. Let this, the government and the minister, guide you on several occasions: citizens and citizens prefer the words they save; rather than those words that are just like.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u57	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is a top law on culture. It was adopted 14 years ago and was later amended several times, which is understandable, since it can be said that the area of culture is alive and in constant change. In the Desus Group, we therefore believe that this law needs a thorough overhaul. As we have been listening for some time now, we need a reconstruction of the cultural model. We agree with that, too. The proposed solutions address the shortcomings of the existing law, the changes relate to the strategic plans of public institutions, the training of members of the boards of public institutions, the improvement of the situation of self-employed persons, the elimination of administrative obstacles, the country and the local community being allowed to rent real estate and could also be listed. The national programme for culture is defined in the current regulation as a strategic document of cultural policy development planning. It sets out the objectives and performance indicators of the implementation of the national programme for each particular cultural area. It shall be adopted for a period of four years and may also contain long-term guidelines that exceed that period. Every year in the National Assembly we discuss the Report on the implementation of the National Programme for Culture. The findings we come up with are that the objectives set are large and few. There are several reasons for this, some of which are unrealistically set; however, there are also strong strategic objectives, such as in the field of investment, which, due to a particular investment cycle, exceed the period of the four-year national programme. The lack of realisation is also largely due to the lack of financial resources, as we have seen a trend towards a reduction in cultural resources in recent years. The practice has shown that a thorough overhaul of the National Programme for Culture is needed, that it will be more strategic and that it will be accepted for a longer period of time, and that the objectives will also be better achieved. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that this novel has improved in this area; the National Programme for Culture will now be a more strategic and longer term act. It will be accepted for a period of at least eight years. In the Desus Group we will support the proposed law. We will support it in the expectation that the next consideration of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture will be addressed by the new system law announced by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u59	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! The proposal for a new Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is one of those laws that the National Assembly often changes. This has been the sixth novelty in ten years. Practically every change involves a new roof law, which, as a miracle wand, is supposed to solve the problems that have accumulated in this area. The so-called reform of the cultural model is forecast, which shows very different expectations for the professional and interested public; but we have not come much further than the forecast, which must be attributed to the fact of different interests. That is why every now and then, we make an emergency provision for the roofing of a marriage. Such cosmetic patching is also the present text, yet it contains some important solutions. We include additional measures to improve the status of self-employed in culture. It is an extremely important group for the cultural creativity of this country, which is in a very difficult social situation due to overcarnation. According to the Financial Administration, a large majority of them, about two thirds, do not reach the threshold of the minimum annual salary. There is also significant data on the average annual salary threshold, which does not reach as much as 90% of all self-employed people. The competent ministry is trying to make an extremely poor position at least a little improvement. Thus, incentives in the form of cultural pockets are extended through work grants, the right to pay social security contributions is extended, and the comparability of payments to self-employed persons for work carried out in the framework of a public institution is also being established. It is right that at least the work carried out by self-employed persons in public institutions is comparable to that performed by regular employees. With regard to the employees, we draw attention to another small group that we have listened to in the past in our parliamentary group. It is a matter of professional ballet players who have the right to a beneficiary's working life. The proposed amendment introduces the necessary changes that build on the provisions in force in order to increase their social security. Before the end of the National Programme for Culture next year, the Government is proposing amendments to the validity of this strategic document. It turns out that the current cultural programme is inoperable, too specific and too narrowly time-consuming. If we know how much time it takes to implement larger, in particular infrastructure projects, the proposal to extend the validity from four to at least eight years is meaningful. It should be noted that the experience with the national programme in force shows that the validity of the document depends on the willingness of the entire government, how high on the scale the priority places the area of culture. For a non-ambitious government, everyone, even a modest document, will be too ambitious; it will only be the desire of the Ministry of Culture team. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u61	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u62	Hello! As we are today considering the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, ZUJIK-F, which is a fundamental law in the field of culture, would expect greater changes to strengthen the cultural model and bring about the necessary improvements. However, for some time now we have been monitoring in the area of culture in particular current corrections or coordination with European directives. The new ZUJIK-F still brings quite a few changes. From our point of view, the most important provisions on self-employed people in culture are. We view them as a positive step forward, yet they are too modest, especially when evaluating the work of self-employed people. As many times ago, the coalition did not have a hearing for the amendment proposed by the Glossa and the Creators' Association in Culture and Information, SUKI, submitted to the United Left to equalise the gross payment with the comparable payment of the public official, not the net amount. It is estimated that around one third of self-employed people do not have paid contributions from the state budget. We are aware that the cultural situation is complex and that too sudden increase in labour costs could endanger institutions that are also dependent on public funding and a weak and limited cultural market. However, to ensure decent work and social security, it is simply essential to find a sufficiently ambitious solution. Let us not forget, the self-employed is defined as the employer, because he is supposed to provide his own work. However, in many cases it is all aspects of the working relationship, especially when an individual does not work for more subscribers, but is economically dependent on only one. He often works the same way as his employees, and the contracting authority also assigns him working time, working time and pay for work; he does not enjoy basic rights from the working relationship. We welcome the changes in the simplification of applications for self-employed status, the extension of the period of recognition of the right to social security contributions from the State budget, and the arrangements for ballet dancers and dancers' pensions. Another major change is that the national programme for culture will have a different role, as it will now be valid for eight years and shorter action plans will be drawn up. As regards this change, a number of concerns have arisen and so are some other provisions, such as training for members of the boards of public institutions. However, the justification for these provisions is not convincing, as they appear to be too prepared for blindness. In view of everything that's been said in the United Left, we won't object to the law. However, we want more ambition with the Ministry of Culture in beneficial solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Hanzek. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Anita Kolesh, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for giving me your word this time. Nice greetings to our minister, co-workers and colleagues as well! The amendment tabled by our coalition to this law is not disputed; it is the solutions that our minister has been talking about and are completely understandable and logical, so I do not think there are any particular problems in this. However, since this is a fundamental cultural act that we are talking about today, or are talking about its changes, it is logical that it comes now that we are adopting the budget, because it seems to me that we are setting the objectives that are then translated into the figures in the budget line. The fact is, the alphabet of our cultural policy is the National Programme for Culture. The fact that this strategic development plan in this act is now set for at least eight years has also come across the approval of the wider cultural public; by explaining that this does not mean changes in the cultural policies of local communities or that these deadlines do not change; and also to approval in local environments. The fact is that the changes in the amendment of the law are a measure of progress, particularly in what we have heard many times today, in removing administrative obstacles. It shall also take into account those comments made by public institutions which have been given due to unnecessary costs in the training of members of the boards of institutions. In doing so, we also wonder whether these members are entirely relevant so that they can be members of the board of institutions, cultural institutions or cultural institutions; in this regard, however, there may be some reflection on the Ministry's efforts to regulate this with certain protocols. Non-governmental organisations praised the changes mainly for providing spatial conditions for the implementation of cultural programmes. We also very much welcome this, as well as the changes concerning the registration of self-employed people in culture. The biggest problem was coordination – and so was – with regard to the establishment of a minimum payment for self-employed people in culture. I think we have found the appropriate content to help self-employed and non-governmental organisations. A different solution would certainly bring them a lot of problems, so we could not support the amendment tabled by the United Left. I think the explanation and the thinking of this was completely in place. There is now an obligation for self-employed persons to ensure payment for work which must not be lower than the minimum wage class for comparable jobs in the public sector wage system, imposed solely by public institutions. The law also regulates the professional insurance of ballet dancers. We wondered whether it was right or wrong not to regulate in a similar way other comparable professions in culture, some of them. We could also work on such a solution to, say, modern dancers and similarly regulate their status in a similar way. However, the view has prevailed that this is currently the most pressing problem of a specific profession, and we welcome this solution. It should be added that when we adopted the amendment to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, we recalled the promises made by the Ministry at the time of the replacement of the Minister, which was also a significant reason for our discontent with the work of the Ministry so far. The fact that our cultural policy still retains the predominant support of institutional culture means that we spend too much money on working in these institutions and very little on projects, on infrastructure of these projects, on international application of Slovenian culture, on cultural heritage, which will be a part of the economic development of the country and so on. We are also not dealing with motivational factors to promote the cultural consumption of the population. And not about new technologies, which in the field of art and cultural creation in general bring the necessary strategic shifts. A lot of challenges. We truly expect appropriate solutions to be adopted in this area. I am convinced that our cultural institutions are also aware of this problem and expect the ministry to make bolder and bolder steps. We are also convinced of this by the Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party, who have also written these objectives clearly and loudly in our cultural programme. I will support the amendment of the law myself, and I wish it to be well realized in real life as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kolesha. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not stop at the amendments and at the very novel ZUJIK-F, which, of course, we support, as I have mentioned. Although it brings no minor change, which, hand to heart, is only a small fraction of all those systemic changes that need to be legalized, we are still very far away. We are not even clear on the outline of these changes, which could give us hope that we will be detached from this state in which we are; and some form of aviation, which, if we are completely honest, does not last two years, but has lasted for decades in the field of culture. That the situation in the field of culture is not pink, we have recently found that, in the Committee on Culture, we have considered the Implementation Report of the National Programme for Culture. And why am I talking about the National Programme for Culture? Article 9 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture states that public interest in culture is determined by laws and the National Programme for Culture. The report on the implementation of the National Programme for Culture has been devastating and in fact reflects the multi-year situation we have. Here are some symptoms of a disease that we have been suffering for so long. It's called the non-functionality of the cultural model we have. And that's why this coalition has set itself up in a coalition contract as its first task, or Article 1 in the Culture chapter, just a reconstruction of the cultural model. With regard to the National Programme for Culture, the Ministry's conclusion was that if I simplify that the National Programme for Culture cannot be implemented, firstly because there is no money, secondly because much of the indicators on how this National Programme for Culture is implemented cannot be measured at all because the indicators are unrealistic or are not measured, or are not foreseen, or are not set at all. Somehow, through the debate, it has been freely acknowledged that this is a list of wishes; not some kind of cultural constitution, in a certain period of time, the highest act to be followed every time by a minister in the implementation of cultural policy. Interestingly, the same Ministry of Culture recently prepared the same National Programme for Culture in 2013 three years ago. It is true that at the time the minister was someone else, he probably had different views on how to approach the realization of public interest in the field of culture. But all the official and professional apparatus at the Ministry of Culture is basically the same as it was, and probably all stakeholders in the field of culture who have contributed material to the National Programme for Culture are the same, have not changed. Social relations can't change that fast. Here is an interesting fact that the National Programme for Culture was approved by the National Assembly in plenary session, with only one vote against it. It may even be assumed that this one of the opposers made a mistake when he pressed the key; we see that today it is no miracle; we are all mistaken. With this novel ZUJIK-F, it is envisaged that the National Programme for Culture will last for eight years. In view of everything I have said, this can be accepted on the one hand because certain cycles are longer than four years; on the other hand, there is this risk, because then the situation will be even more rigid and even more complicated if we find that the National Programme for Culture cannot be complemented, this has also been said on the Committee on Culture, although there is a legal possibility that it can be complemented, but that it cannot be achieved because it is all intertwined that it cannot be. If we have something that is going to happen in eight years, and then at the same time we'll find that it's so unrealistic again and that we can't change it in the meantime, and we'll have even more of a deadlock if that's even possible than we have today. It would therefore be welcome, and even imperative, to define in the regulations when the National Programme for Culture is structured, how its implementation is measured, how its indicators are set out. It is even more important that its implementation be linked to financial resources, that we do not once again hear that this is a list of wishes; how this strategic document enters into some of the country's integrated budgets or how the European funds for its implementation will be drawn up. I think that this should be a necessary part of every national cultural programme to move from a dead point at which we stand not for two years, but for a long time. The symptom of Slovenian attitude towards culture is interesting. We have a law to define what is the public interest in culture. We are also symbolically very connected to culture, we have a cultural holiday. We have always boasted that we are founded on culture. Throughout the centuries, Slovenians have been replaced by nationalities, even though they lived in different national or administrative units. They were divided by boundaries, but it was the culture that connected them. This is also evidenced by the fact that on the former Tolar banknotes, these banknotes were eight, seven cultures; no ruler, no politics, no war hero; but culturers. This indicates that this is indeed the area on which the nation is founded and on which our community is founded. But then, in practice, things turn out to be like we don't have any compasses. The public interest in culture, which must be defined in the National Programme for Culture, is one fleet mass, is not financial; how it is implemented cannot be measured at all. The foundations of the nation and the countries seem quite torn. And here, things should be changed from the ground up. And this is the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, which must be based on clear starting points for the renewal of the cultural model. This situation is more than clearly necessary to be cut and exceeded. The existing law on the realization of public interest in culture is outdated and non-operational and far from being able to match the real state or to meet the necessary requirements for changes in the cultural model that we have. Let me mention just a few. The dialogue of the Ministry of Culture with stakeholders on the necessary substantive issues is unstructured to the extent that it is evident to each Minister that in expert groups, dialogue groups or whatever they are called, they decide on the allocation of funds and approve programmes and projects, they delegate their people and that the interests of the profession or cultural groups concerned are not taken into account or favoured only part of them, of course at the expense of others, and so on. In fact, the Cultural Chamber only exists on paper and does not work. Members of the Cultural Chamber don't recognize anyone representing their interests. The Cultural Chamber is based on the legislation on societies, which is a complete absurdity; it does not have the right powers to be transferred to the Cultural Chamber, does not grant licences, does not decide on minimum tariffs for the hourly position of those stakeholders working in the field of culture, does not carry out any kind of support in helping self-employed people to search, integrate into projects, programmes which would be some kind of support to the non-governmental sector. The second keynote speaker of the Ministry of Culture is the National Council for Culture, which we can say is that its role, in a mild sense, is now inappropriately placed. What a small impact the National Council for Culture has on cultural policy was seen about one year ago when it was shown that we have a system in which some politicians can understand that the National Council for Culture is its consultative body; and it does not perceive it as an interlocutor, nor as a supervisor, on how the National Programme for Culture is implemented. And then the majority of the members of the National Council for Culture resigns protesting because they find that they are only fig leaves for the minister's policy and that they have no legitimate competence in the rules for any concrete action. They don't see their roles anymore and then they go. In fact, the problem is that in the existing Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, the Ministry of Culture does not even have a defined appropriate dialogue, because there is neither adequate support in the rules. This should be clearly and unequivocally regulated – responsibilities, responsibilities. And balance. Without this, we cannot expect to be able to successfully apply public interest in the field of culture. Antagonism between the public sector and non-governmental organisations and self-employed persons on the other hand has been a constant for many years, which I would rather not even discuss. It's a fight. It's a fight. It's a predominance. It's money. The fact is, in fact, the system of public institutions is outdated and financially consumed. No rationalisation shall be carried out to overstretch the ratios in the staff composition of public institutions in favour of professional staff by reducing the number of support staff. There is no rationalisation in procurement, cooperation in joint projects is weak, there is no participation in public infrastructure investments, but it is largely devastating. Let me mention just a few examples that I have learned from my personal past when I worked at the Cultural Inspectorate and the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. The archiving network, which has about 170 employees, is divided into seven archives, one is an organ in its composition, and six are public institutions. Seven systems, seven directors, seven legal services, seven accounting, seven information services. Whether they're permanently employed or hired, outsourced, let's leave it, the costs are here. When I had a proposal at the time for this to be unified, there was a violent opposition from all these public institutions that wanted to remain independent. County lobby; this must remain, there must be no unification, even though it would make more sense, 170 people in seven organizations! Not to mention museums where things are worse. We have a network of municipal museums, which is completely rigid and non-functional. Let us now leave a professional debate on whether it makes sense that we have 4 or 5 vineyard collections and whether all of this really needs to be financed. In fact, the State finances most of the funds, up to 80%, to these public institutions, but the decision on the Director is left to the mayors. And then, when it comes to some investments, there are no congregations anywhere. Not only should investments be pooled in order to, say, more public institutions have some depository space that would be appropriate, in one place; but this would be done. No, even for a single museum, then three or four mayors argue whether to finance a minor matter in order to reach at least some appropriate deposits. And in that regard, it's a complete stalemate. If I touch only public institutions in the field of live culture — theatres, operas, symphony orchestras. We face chronic illness to show the most devastating consequences of poor human resources flow. Here, of course, ZUJIK does not take into account the specific or needs in this field that the labour legislation in these public institutions is flexible enough to allow every time an artistic leader to choose his own ensemble adequately; but is in fact facing the situation that, because of the biological legality of the human body, he unfortunately has such a cadre that he cannot help himself. After 50 years, people find it difficult to reach ranges of singing, as they would expect from them because of their artistic performance, to dance. In addition, it would be appropriate only because of the nature of this profession, for a certain period of time, these ensembles would be overwinded because it is also relatively boring for the audience to watch the same artists at all times. It is only by the way that I propose just a few topics in this area, which is very large and very diverse. Culture is very diverse. What I have said is just a few problems that we are dealing with; but we are not moving anywhere for two years in this mandate, in a deadlock that has lasted for many years, the ground is quite thick. And now we really need to move slowly on to some actions. We know that the Ministry of Culture has set up working groups to renovate the cultural model for the national media strategy. We read the first draft of this strategy a few weeks ago and it was not satisfactory. And from the rest, we don't have anything tangible yet. I mentioned the Committee on Culture a few weeks ago, and we have actually seen on this committee that after one year there are no movements to all comments, as a result. In the meantime, the Minister said good-bye, but the former Secretary of State, current Minister Peršak, is a kind of continuity. It is now necessary to say honestly that we are expecting results; and we are expecting them in due course. Comparing and drawing a parallel to what we have just talked about in the field of health. The Party Desus, whose member is also the Minister of Culture, has been quite critical of the Minister of Health, but the Minister of Health has made clear what laws she will come up with by the end of this year; whether it will come in this way that they will already be put into the procedure, or whether there will be a public presentation of opinions. Of course, it will then be assessed on the basis of the effectiveness of these rules, which will be submitted or presented. It must be made clear that we also expect a comparable issue in the area of culture. A step forward is needed in the area of culture. It is high time that things begin to move in accordance with the coalition contract, chapter Culture, item 1, Renovation of the cultural model. This results in a new and systematicly renewed law on public interest in culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Dr. Matic. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, everyone! First of all, I must say that the structure of the seating structure in this Chamber, when it comes to cultural issues, gives me a little bit of worry; and I hope that our citizens and citizens have a much greater degree of interest in this topic than is shown today. That is why I would also like to express my thanks to my colleagues and colleagues who are here, regardless of what part of our internal divisions they are from. Dear Minister, of course I will support today's amendment of the law. Since I have worked very hard on your appointment, let me stress how strongly I believe in you, today I may be a little more critical, I will highlight some of the questions that plague me here. When I supported you, I wanted to say that, in view of the past and the work done so far in the cultural ministry, you will probably be more likely to initiate rapid changes and improvements to our cultural legislation. At the Modern Centre Party, we are concerned about when we will adopt a starting point for the preparation of a new cultural model or system. You know that we have been informed that this will be realized by September, this is now over. I wonder if we will have enough time to discuss the new law on the protection of cultural heritage by March when it is announced that this will indeed be exposed. As you know, what we now have is very outdated; and it is necessary to move quickly towards setting new conditions. Since we have much work to do in this area, we must not leave behind what is the first principle of time. Also, the resources offered from foreign sources are not forever and we must think that we are making the most of them as soon as possible. So far, you have prepared several new laws at the Ministry, which have led to small changes in individual laws. We still want to stress that we need to see as soon as possible the start of a thorough overhaul of this cultural model in its entirety. I also want to say that we still do not have what is highly desirable and necessary in our society. I repeat this several times, and this time I will, the collapse of construction and construction. Architects who are constantly educated in a certain number are now amassing an increasing number of highly educated, especially young people who do not have the opportunity to work. In the monumental protection, the protection of cultural heritage, in other sectors of culture there are spaces, there are opportunities for the engagement of architects. I think it is necessary for me to lay down on your soul that you are already thinking about this in the design of the new cultural model and to activate this potential, which is incredibly underutilized. Of course I won't be quiet when it's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much, mag. Rajic. Anja Bah Žibert wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, I am very much in agreement with my colleague Matić, who has pointed out the issue that remains in culture. But let me also stop at the so-called 15th article, which is an amendment. Put your hand to your heart, the matter will be moved to the end of the year and it will begin to take place next year. It's probably about budget-related issues as well. But I only hope that this will actually stay that way and that we will not be getting any new changes at the beginning of the year, because we will find that there is no means and that things will have to be turned around when we talk about self-employed people. As far as this eight-year National Programme for Culture is concerned. The new amendment reads — at least eight years. At least eight years. I looked at the duration of the European Commission's cultural programme; it is shorter and their mandate is longer. For example, it is shorter in English. If I were a little rude, I would say, because we need not only eight and it is right to write at least eight; because it is best to accept for 25 years, given that the pace in the field of culture is as it is. But there's something else behind it. That is why this national programme is being extended so that exactly what Mr Matić has pointed out is going to happen, that more wishes will be written in. This is a long-term issue. In eight years, at least two governments will be replaced if they have the full mandate. Today we can write a lot of very nice things in there, but this is also irresponsible for those who are coming. You'll write in a list of wishes that will be nice, good; even though you may already know that this is beyond reach at some point in time. And when someone else comes to this place, they'll be dealing with that wish list. If he wants to change it, he will surely run into opposition from the profession and the interested public, because this wish list will sound nice and likeable. I think this is an irresponsible move, and here I agree with the Municipality of Ljubljana, where very many cultural events take place. And they said they didn't see the need for that extension. In four years, you just make a program that you think can be done within four years. What you fail to do, you confess, you admit, and you make a plan on how to do this in the next term. Also, you know, there will now be implementation reports for two years and no more for one year. I think that's bad. In the area of culture, it's going too slowly. And when these reports are only two years old, it will mean that some things will go even slower. With regard to these solutions, I absolutely believe that they are not good and, in fact, there is one trick for all those who are coming. You know, the easiest thing to do in a given mandate is to accept not specific things and solutions for this moment, for today, but to focus on some strategies from 2020 on. It's not just about culture. It has to be admitted. We have also been faced with something similar at the Ministry of Health. Everything's out there somewhere. We have problems right now, and they're getting rid of you too slowly. The bill just ahead of us, I said, has some good solutions for ballet dancers and, last but not least, these solutions have been in previous proposals of the law, but they have not come to a final procedure. In this matter, it is nothing new; it is simply that in some ways the matter could only be copied and upgraded. As far as self-employed people are concerned, I absolutely support them, but I'm already upset because things are moving on for months. In view of the state of the country and also of what the Court of Auditors has said, I am not exactly sure that the matter will remain and that there will be no further changes when we then see what kind of frog it is, including in the field of the Ministry of Culture and what can be done here. I really hope that we will come as soon as possible to make concrete changes to this fundamental law on culture, so that we will not deal so much with some strategies for ten years to come if it says at least that we will also specify and say this, this and that and we will do this in this mandate even in these two years. For in these two years, the hand, not the heart, and the criticism of the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, which has been visible through the magnetogram since the beginning of the mandate, stands. That's what it says. Things are going too slow. This has also been pointed out by those Members who come directly from the field of culture. Sometimes, you know, it would also be good to listen to those who work a lot in the field of culture and actually know directly from their own experience what is worth listening to and changing. There will be no mistake about these so-called administrative obstacles. The law does not change that there will be no education of so-called cultural councils. These educations remain. The difference is they won't be here every year. Here is the obstacle removed so that they will not come now every year. I think it's really enough, here I agree that this education is unique, especially in the light of today's very appropriate way, it's e-education. Rather, they are familiar with the basic tasks required of them. When individuals have debated on the committee that these people are uneducated for this work and are often inappropriate, this is always a matter of proposing what kind of people we will propose. I'm not being flattened, and I'm not saying that everyone's so unprofessional now that they don't know things. Perhaps some from some other area where they operate transfer slightly more freshness, flexibility, and flexibility to a third area. So not everything is bad if someone in the cultural field does not have much experience because there are other questions here — from the invitations and the rest, which is something else to know about. I think it's a solution, because I say we solved ballet dancers after the time the proposal was prepared, already in 2013. The situation is improving for the self - employed, and unfortunately the implementation of the law in this part is being postponed. I, too, like some predecessors, want a little faster. Extending the duration of various programmes certainly does not bring this. I still believe this will be a wish list. Just so this one's longer and more like it. What culture will have out of this, and you will see in a year or two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss article 15 of the SMC, Desus and SD amendments. I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law amending the law on social security benefits. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to be signed. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-one Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill, Mr Marijan Pojbic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u72	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the second time in this mandate, we propose the adoption of a law that would eliminate the prohibition on the possession of real estate to those who receive financial social assistance or a security allowance. We also propose to abolish the return of social benefits, which has been in force since 1976, when the Act on the Functioning was adopted. At that time, Minister Ivan Svetnik proposed the adoption of the Law on Social Security Benefits in 2010, which entered into force in 2012. The Act introduced that the legitimate flag of the right of the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality to receive monetary social assistance and a security allowance should be supplemented by a prohibition on the burden and disposal of property held by the recipients of such social assistance by entering into the land register. Social benefits thus turned into loans to the most socially vulnerable countries, which were secured by their property. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already made it clear at the time of the adoption of this law that such a law as it has been adopted is unacceptable, harmful and adds to the poverty and suffering of people who already live on the social edge. Following the entry into force of this non-life law, the number of recipients of the protection allowance decreased by an incredible 78 per cent in early 2012. I think this is a sufficiently eloquent information because this number of recipients has not decreased because their social situation would improve overnight. Since there was no understanding on the part of the rulings, at the beginning of this year in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have reintroduced into the parliamentary procedure a bill that removes this anomaly in the field of the social state with a view to correcting such an unacceptable situation and allowing all recipients of the social security allowance and social assistance to resume their decision to receive these two social adjustments and at least a little distance from the social bed. The main solutions proposed in the law are as follows. It is proposed that the Social Security Benefits Act delete the provisions which provide for the registration of a prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for recipients of financial social assistance and a security allowance and the full obligation to recover the social benefits received from the recipient of social assistance for social benefits. Our efforts to eliminate the solutions that have been taken under the rule of the Social Democrats have apparently come upon fertile ground in the government as well. Last month, the Minister summarized some of our solutions in the law she gave to the public debate, which does not mean that such a law will be proposed at any time for adoption by the National Assembly. We welcome, however, that the Minister has acknowledged one of her social policy mistakes, as she has repeatedly advocated the prohibition of having real estate for social beneficiaries in 2010 as State Secretary and since 2013 as Minister. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will support our proposal for a law, because it means an immediate solution to one of the greatest social states' social anomalies in our country. Its immediate adoption, however, represents an integrated solution to this issue without discriminatory exceptions brought by a government proposal in public treatment, which is non-life and incomplete, and still retains social benefits as a credit to the poorest, as it does not eliminate the full recovery of social benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Martini Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The SDS Group of Members and Members of the SDS Group, with the amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act, proposes to delete in the current law the provisions establishing the entry into force of the prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for beneficiaries of cash social assistance and social security allowance, and the obligation to recover the social assistance received from the inheritance of social assistance beneficiaries, namely the receipt of money social assistance, the security allowance, the exemption of social security payments and the contribution to the payment of funds intended for the payment or payment of the family assistant's rights. At its meeting on 7 April this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision not to endorse the draft law tabled by the SDS Group of Members. First of all, I would like to stress the technical shortcomings of the law, namely, the content of the amendments proposed by the SDS Group does not foresee financial consequences. However, since the change would have a heavy burden on both the state budget and the municipal budgets, such changes would require an analysis to prepare an assessment of the financial implications. Another issue is the substantive intervention in other laws. The proposal infringes Article 128 of the Law on Succession and indirectly the Law on Social Protection. The poverty risk rate in 2015 was 14.7% in Slovenia and fell for the first time in the last period. The calculation prepared at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia is based on revenue from 2014. The data of the Statistical Office also show that the general satisfaction of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia has improved over the past year. I can thus say on the basis of these same data that the overall level of risk of poverty is decreasing, social exclusion is decreasing and people's satisfaction is increasing, but unfortunately I must agree and point out that this does not apply to poverty among the elderly, in particular single women, who are still much higher than in the general population. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already undertaken a coalition contract to relieve beneficiaries of a security allowance that owns less property of property against the prohibition of the disposal of property. On the basis of data from the Statistical Office, analyses and on the basis of a coalition commitment, we prepared, at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Security Benefits, which was in public debate until yesterday, i.e. until 19. 19. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the Coalition Treaty, the law proposes to delete the institution of property registration, which is owned by the beneficiary of monetary social assistance or by a protective allowance. Because of the specific situation of Slovenia, which has been shown to be characterised by a high proportion of ownership or housing, we propose a special margin of property censorship of €120,000. That limit represents the maximum rounded average value of the dwelling in the most expensive statistical region, according to data from the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia in August 2016, or the limit between those who can provide for their survival with the housing they live in and those who cannot afford it. The purpose of monetary social assistance or a protective allowance is to provide minimum means of survival for those who really need it. Therefore, we have also written an exception in the law if the value of the property in which the beneficiary lives exceeds EUR 120 000. In this case, the Centre for Social Work may decide, in the light of the current situation of an individual or family, that it may, for a period of time, receive a financial social assistance or a social security allowance and may not be entered into a property registration during that period. As already mentioned, the proposal for a law drawn up by the Ministry was before yesterday in public debate, it is still under interdepartmental coordination and will then be sent to the National Assembly. Until then, we will also fully comply with all the legislation, and we will also coordinate it with the professional public and the municipalities. For these reasons, we propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on social security benefits prepared by the SDS Group should not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Hello! The debate on whether funds such as cash social assistance and a security allowance are the subject of a question, even in the event of the death of the recipient of such funds, has already been carried out several times. The Constitutional Court has also made this point and has said that it is legitimate that the grantor can be paid from the legacy, even though it is an infringement of the right to private property. The intervention in the right to private property is justified for the protection of other constitutional rights, which is the right to social security of other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which is to be guaranteed to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no problem in our parliamentary group whether the intervention of the State or the local community is a legitimate act in the legacy of the recipient of social assistance or the protection allowance. We know it is. This is what the State or the local community considers to be an issue, and they must even do so under the applicable legislation. If it is property, the aid should also be paid. Today’s issue is more political – is it appropriate to help someone and then look back for this help? Is it right that this help is returned to the heirs? Is it right for our pensioners who are entitled to a protective allowance to resign for a property registration that they leave to their children or grandchildren? These are questions that we need to answer primarily as people, citizens, each individual on our own. Of course, it does not help that the government as the final decision-maker does not have a consistent position on these issues. Thus, we have recently heard the announcement by Minister Anja Kopač Mrak that at the Ministry of Labour they are preparing changes to social legislation that would eliminate the property records for most recipients of a protective allowance or financial social assistance, nor should heirs be required to repay the aid received. The change that is expected to enter into force at the beginning of next year would not apply to all, but only to those who own and live in the property of up to €120,000. The Centre for Social Work will assess whether a person or family, because of low incomes despite having property, is temporarily unable to provide survival without financial assistance or a social security allowance. In this case, one or the other aid from the State will be available without fear, so that the State will make a mark on its property and the heirs will have to repay the aid received. The official opinion that we have all received as the government's opinion on the proposal for a law that we are currently considering is written in a completely different tone. The government doesn't support the law. Point 7 even states that he is opposed by all three associations of congregations that have also asked for an opinion. In the Group of Unaffiliated Members, we propose that in order to avoid continuing discussions in Parliament on whether social assistance and protective allowances are recoverable, the Government will make a final decision on this. In the event that the aid is decided not to return, it should provide us with appropriate legislative changes as soon as possible. In the event that the arrangement is as it is now, let it be clear and not send out any other forecast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček. Mag. Tanja Zink will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u78	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are discussing the amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act proposed by the SDS Group. This amendment provides for the deletion of provisions relating to the registration of a prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for recipients of monetary social assistance and a security allowance and the obligation to reimburse the entire amount of the beneficiary’s inheritance for the received financial social assistance, the security allowance and the exemption of payment of social security services and the contribution to the payment of funds intended for the payment or payment of the family assistant’s rights to which the creditors of the municipality are. Social legislation has already been amended in the last three years to ensure greater social security for individuals. Let us recall that the 2013 amendment of the Social Security Act has already extended the range of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and introduced an amendment that does not require the repayment of extraordinary social assistance and the financial social assistance received by a person for a period of 12 months or less. Let us also remember that this novel has also touched the realm of inheritance. In cases where a person has received financial social assistance for more than 12 months, the inheritance has been limited by deducting from the aid received first 12 maximum monthly amounts and then one third from the remaining monthly amounts of the aid received. We must also point out that it was similar to the changes in the determination of eligibility conditions for a protective allowance. Indeed, data on the number of recipients of the safeguard allowance in December 2011 and December 2012 show that the number of recipients has decreased by a good three-quarters. Many have given up on a protective supplement precisely because of the prohibition on the disposal and loading of property. However, the new Social Security Benefits Act 2013 introduced a succession restriction in such a way that the property of the person receiving the social security allowance was limited to two thirds of the value of the aid received. In addition to the already mentioned decline in the number of recipients of the protective allowance, we must also mention that the structure of beneficiaries of the protective allowance has also changed in recent years. The number of elderly declines and the number of younger recipients increases. We are aware, and our coalition commitment follows this, that beneficiaries of a property-owned security allowance must be relieved of the prohibitions on the disposal of property, but that consideration must also be given to the value of the property, in which case the property, which for some individuals constitutes the basic means of survival. For we know that in Slovenia we have more than 80% of the ownership apartments and that in certain cases decisions regarding the protection allowance also have an attachment to real estate. We agree that the objective should be pursued to extend the range of beneficiaries to the protection allowance and to ensure social security for those who need it, but not in the way proposed by the proposer. On the basis of all the above reasons, we will not support the new Social Security Benefits Act in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Zinc. The word is given by the SDS Group, for which Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u80	Your Honor! You already have another proposal for amending the Social Security Benefits Act, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have already tabled this proposal a month later this year. About a year ago, when we first introduced the amendment of this law, the law on social security benefits, the government or the minister then committed herself to preparing a new law. Since this did not happen by the end of the year or sometime by February, we resubmitted this novel. As we know, in 2010, during the time of the then Minister, Mr Svetlik, and in the time of the Government of the Social Democrats or the Pahor Government, the Act on Social Security Benefits was adopted in the National Assembly. This law, inter alia, transferred rights of a social security nature from the pension system to the social assistance system and therefore transferred the protective allowance to the provisions of that law. Thus, the security allowance was transferred to the new system, while the state pension was then fully abolished. They were then eligible for a state pension over 65 years of age who had no other income. The law was then presented by then Minister Svetlik and then by State Secretary Anja Kopač Mrak as the most social law that would allow for the reduction and prevention of the risk of poverty and social exclusion. Later in the summer, sometime in mid-2012, then Minister Vizjak ordered a study to assess the impact of the implementation of the new social legislation in order to check how laws adopted affect specific categories of the population. The study was completed in 2013 and, unfortunately, it is too late for the Slovenian Democratic Party Government to submit a proposal to amend the Social Protection Benefits Act. Very large anomalies or increased levels of poverty for the elderly and the decline of applicants for a protective supplement have already appeared. Then the new government, led by Alenka Bratušek, had to make certain changes to the law, but these changes were not made entirely or sufficiently. The Social Security Benefits Act provides that a person who, for himself and his family members, is not entitled to financial social assistance at the level of the minimum income cannot provide for reasons on which he cannot influence. Monetary social assistance shall be granted for a certain period, depending on the circumstances underlying the allocation and the level of the financial social assistance. However, for different periods, financial social assistance may also be granted to a person who exceeds the amount of 48 basic minimum income amounts, i.e. around EUR 13 000 863 at present and who has received financial social assistance more than 18 times in the last 24 months and agrees with the registration of the prohibition on the disposal and loading of property owned or owned by him into the land book for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia and fulfils the other conditions for eligibility for financial social assistance under the Act. However, the protective allowance is granted to persons who are permanently unemployed, permanently unable to work or unemployed, over 63 years of age for women, or for men over 65 years of age. In February 2015, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak also wrote down in one of the written replies to the question that the amendment of legislation on the prohibition of the availability and prohibition of the real estate of the recipient of financial social assistance did not help in any way to reduce the number of recipients of financial social assistance. After all the forecasts of the implementation of the Social Security Benefits Act, it would be expected that requests for monetary social assistance would be reduced, in particular in the light of the statement made by Svetlik, the proposer of the Svetlik Act, who stressed that the objective of applying the Pay principle is to work or encourage these recipients to do more work or to increase motivation for work. However, the data show a completely different trend. In September 2012, when this law was in force for 9 months, the number of eligible social assistance was little more than 67 000, a year later there were little more than 75 000 beneficiaries. The Social Security Benefits Act certainly did not encourage greater work activity, but increased beneficiaries of monetary social assistance. This has also shown that the social situation in the country has deteriorated in these years to this day. Above all, it is the worst in single - parent families and single - parent households. However, in the area of a protective additive, the matter is completely different. With the implementation of the Social Security Benefits Act 2012, the number of applicants has decreased significantly. The protective allowance was only a correction in order to improve the material position of the individual before the entry into force of the Svetlik Law. After the adoption of the law, the social security allowance shall be the social security allowance received by those beneficiaries who do not have material security or cannot take place because of circumstances which are not affected. The security allowance shall cover the costs incurred over a longer period, the maintenance of the property and so on, but shall not cover the costs of meeting minimum life needs. In December 2011, just prior to the entry into force of the Law on Social Security Benefits, the protection allowance was received by the poor 50,000 inhabitants or citizens. At the end of 2012, after one year in force of this Act, this reduction was 30,000 citizens. So there were only 10 thousand of those who received a protective allowance, which is a reduction in the year since the law was enforced 78%. The biggest reason for the decline in people's decision not to apply for a protective allowance is the law that we have a novelty before us today, the law on social security benefits, which in its articles has legislated the ban on the alienation and the burden on the property of the recipient of the protective allowance for the benefit of the State, namely the Republic of Slovenia, and at the same time the restriction on inheritance. The trend of reduction of recipients in the age group over 66 is constantly showing, and the issue is in fact very worrying. The reduction in the number of recipients of a protective allowance is also due to the fact that many older ones, i.e. many who would be entitled to receive a protective allowance, do not want this because they are afraid of having a real estate registration, the prohibition of having real estate. They see this as an intervention in their personal dignity. For many, it is the only property they have, for which they have actually worked their whole lives, saved and eventually earned with their money, with their work. And if they want a security supplement now, those few euros, they have to agree to register this property for the benefit of the state. Studies in the field of social security benefits or social benefits also show a very poor situation at the moment, given that this law applies and that certain categories of families and individuals are in poorer material situations due to this law, namely single parents' families, those aged 50 to 63 years and over and, in essence, those target groups, especially older ones, cannot be expected to improve their social situation. Here, in particular, we record a high level of risk of poverty and the deepening of poverty mainly in older single women. People living in these situations live with low pensions. This has been repeatedly pointed out in the National Assembly by the Desus Group and others, but unfortunately we have not yet seen by the Government or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to change this law, allowing those elderly people living with low pensions to live below the threshold of poverty, elderly single women with low property, with poor housing, to receive financial social assistance, a protective allowance that would allow them at least little hope that they could survive themselves with dignity, but not that they are literally threatened with entry into property for the benefit of the State. And they're afraid of the elderly for their heirs. Unfortunately, in Slovenia it is still such that this thought is that it is necessary to preserve its properties, to be inherited by the heirs, but of course without any burden, which is normal. Elders do not want to leave young people in addition to real estate, nor do they want their heirs to repay their debts. Thus, in the case of a security allowance and cash social assistance, this is not some kind of aid, but is essentially a loan to be repaid. But if you can't do it yourself, the heirs will have to. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have considered this and, in fact, we have been stressing this for some time now that we cannot solve the problem of poverty only in the area of social transfers, more emphasis on systemic solutions, measures must be implemented in the field of labour market, economy, education in relation to the economy. Only by increasing the number of jobs with greater flexibility in the labour market will we also make it possible for people to be able to work more and not to increase the number of recipients of monetary social assistance. The amendments we are proposing have also been proposed years ago by the Institute for Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, which proposes to delete from the Social Security Benefits Act provisions which provide for the registration of a prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for recipients of social cash assistance and a protective allowance, and an integrated obligation to recover social assistance from the beneficiary's inheritance, namely for receiving social cash assistance, for receiving a security allowance, for exempting payment of social security services and contributions to the payment of funds intended for the payment or payment of family assistant's rights. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act, we delete the articles which provide for a property registration in the case of receipt of monetary social assistance and a social security allowance which imposes a heavy burden on these recipients and therefore, in particular, the elderly do not decide to apply for a security allowance, but at the same time we propose deleting the articles which essentially stipulate that the heirs are returning the received financial social assistance. Given that the Government, in essence, has announced the amendment of the same law after the second time we have proposed this law, it would be almost wise for the Minister to have called on the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group before that and, together with the opposition, could have drawn up a law that everyone could agree with today and would not have been the same as my colleague said, a waste of time, which is definitely not for me, because it is necessary to draw attention to matters that are happening to older women, especially single women. These discussions are good. The government has not prepared this law at the time it promised last year, and it is only at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is preparing the law, and I hope that, despite the fact that Minister Anja Kopač Dark is somehow in bad light right now in the Slovenian public, this law will nevertheless be put into the procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Godec. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! In short, on the position of the Desus Group on the draft law of the ZSVarPre or the Law on Social Protection Benefits. At one of the previous meetings of the National Assembly in this reference to the mandate, we have already considered an identical proposal from the same proposer. The proposal for a law to delete and a provision to record the prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for recipients of social assistance, a protective allowance and for the eligible exemption from payment of social security services intended to pay the rights of a family assistant was then rejected. At that time, we did not vote in favour of the law, we explained the reasons in the position and through a debate that I will not now repeat. However, our general opinion or position on this issue has not changed to this day. Colleagues and colleagues, we still believe that the receipt of these rights, which I have previously counted, of these social transfers, if you wish, cannot be in itself a reasonable and free liability of the beneficiary or later his potential heirs, if there is any property of the recipient of the social assistance at the time of the transfer. It holds true, and it is also true that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia declares our country as a social state and guarantees our citizens and citizens the right to social security. However, this Constitution also makes it very clear that these rights are guaranteed under certain conditions as defined in the legislation in question. In extreme economic circumstances, social security allowance and financial assistance are state aid when a person cannot survive on his own for a variety of reasons, justified, objective reasons, alone, cannot provide the means for his or her life. With regard to social transfers, both rights under existing legislation are subject to certain conditions or criteria provided for in the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds alone, the Famous ZUJF and the Law on Social Security Benefits. The criteria and restrictions for the acquisition of any right, whether social or any other, must be clearly set and proportionate. We strongly agree with this in our Group of Members. We also believe that conditions must be laid down to justify the purpose of justice. Both the establishment of material censorships and the conditions for obtaining social transfers and thus the resources of the State or local communities and the Institute itself to register the prohibition of the alienation and the burden on the property of the recipient of the aid, according to our assessment, does not constitute disproportionateity, as it is only in this way that we can ensure the protection of the constitutional right to social security for all citizens and citizens who really need the assistance. The Constitutional Court’s assessment of the provisions of the Succession Act, which has been established since 1976 to restrict the succession of property of a person who has benefited from aid under social protection rules to the extent of the aid received, has confirmed that an intervention in the right to private property is necessary for the protection of other constitutional rights, that is the right to social security of other citizens provided by our country, as it is the duty to ensure it to all and under equal conditions. This right must not be jeopardised by unjustified poverty, allow me to use this term, funds to provide this assistance or if you want the budget. The Constitutional Court also found that the right to private property and inheritance for heirs did not give rise to the right to inherit the property of the prodigal without being prepared to accept any obligations relating to the inheritance of the prodigal property. The heirs, however, have an entirely autonomous choice to repay the aid received and to inherit the entire legacy or, as an alternative, to allow the exclusion of part of the legacy for the benefit of the grantor of the State or the municipality. The security allowance has been no longer a pension allowance for several years, this has already been said and this right has the nature of the social transfer. In our Group of Members, we have always advocated that pension bills be cleared of all expenses that do not have the basis for the payment of contributions, so in our Group of Members when new social legislation was adopted in 2010 on changes in the new definition of the protection allowance and its exemption from Zpiz, we did not object. It should also be recalled that we have already adopted a solution by amending social legislation in 2013, after which it is no longer necessary to return the full value of the aid received, and of course that is not enough. Your Honor! In Desus, we like to talk about intergenerational solidarity many times, not because we would require anything from the younger generation, but simply because of the fact that we cannot overlook these relationships by the law of nature. It is therefore appropriate for us to warn and warn this city again and again that the family legislation, which, by the way, is about as old as the rule of law, is in both directions, i.e. in relation to parents: children and children: parents determine the mutual duties of survival. But again, as in the first draft of the SDS law, I must say that unfortunately, we are identifying the following in our parliamentary group. Moral-ethical principles in our society, which we also very much like to talk about one more, the other less, about the possibility of survival and about the acquisition of social transfers are lost in importance, are pimped, do not want to live anymore. Somehow, in our space, it is slowly becoming a dominant opinion that the country must, in one way or another, provide us with what we think belongs to us. We regret that. Your Honor! But the fact is that, on the other hand, the awareness of intergenerational care and intergenerational solidarity limits the increasingly difficult social situation of people, the increasingly difficult social situation of relatives who should, legally speaking, and because they are themselves malnourished and find themselves in social distress, I stress that they cannot take care of their parents, family members. As has already been said, social legislation has already undergone such changes that have gone in the direction of improvement, in the interest of people, but it is also true that solutions are not yet optimal and completely fair. In particular, the fact that we are Slovenians and Slovenians as a very hardworking nation, this must be acknowledged and realized, we have created many ownership apartments, houses, and the attachment to our home is in this light a restriction on the enjoyment of what we have earned with our own work, with our own denial, painful experiences of age, when the old pension is not such as to reach the threshold that we set as a barrier between poverty and decent life. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We in the Desus Group are working to implement a coalition contract, or that part of a coalition contract, which says that the beneficiaries of a security allowance that owns less property will be relieved of the prohibition on the disposal of property. Why less value? This is also the subject of discussion when adopting legislation in this area. That is how the debate ends in those days or, if my data are correct, the public debate on the proposed amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act, the aim of which is to end the recovery of the funds received from the amount of the security allowance and the cash social assistance and the property records in the vast majority, I would like, in all cases. In addition, as it is said, the proposed legislation will address some other issues, which are not being addressed by the drafter of this law, which we are currently discussing, but are urgently needed to address within the framework of the most urgent and comprehensive changes to social security rules. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The government or the Ministry of Labour, however you wish, has drawn up a new law on social security benefits that will adequately address this problem, so that the state will not be an inexhaustible source of financial assistance without the right criteria and, at the same time, as we estimate in Desus, it is particularly important that those who really need the assistance of the State or their relatives do not need to be deprived of their hard-earned property. It is inappropriate to think or to get money from the country for a decent survival or to preserve something that we have worked hard and worked hard for our whole lives and would like to pass on to our children. Your Honor! All I have said, of course, is that we will not support the proposed law, but we expect the government law on our benches this year and the implementation of the law on social security benefits at the beginning of 2017, as well as the correction of certain inconsistencies, if you want, of social solutions from the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Prickle. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The subject matter of today's debate is the complete deletion of the provisions setting out the registration of the prohibition on the disposal and loading of property for recipients of cash social assistance and a security allowance, and the full obligation to recover the social assistance received from the beneficiary's inheritance for the received financial social assistance, to receive a security allowance and to exempt payment of social security services and to contribute to the payment of funds intended for the payment or payment of the family assistant's rights. The Succession Act was adopted in 1976 and Article 128 provides that the inheritance of the property of the person receiving the aid in accordance with the social protection rules shall be limited to the amount of the aid received. Of course, it is also the case that the court may decide that the heirs shall inherit all the property of the prodigal if they undertake to repay the value of the aid given to the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality. Aid in accordance with social protection rules shall be deemed to be all that the procurator has received in cash or in the form of an exemption from payment due to a poor financial situation. So money social assistance, security allowance, exemption from social security payments, such as accommodation in the home of the elderly and contribution to the payment of the family assistant service. The same law in Article 129 provides that those who have granted aid, namely the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality, may also waive the right to repay such aid if they are the heirs of the prodigal, that is, his spouse or his children, who are themselves in need of assistance. In assessing the constitutionality of the law on succession, the Constitutional Court ruled that it was legitimate for the grantor to be able to repay the lossor’s property. It has found that intervention in the right to private property and inheritance is necessary for the protection of other constitutional rights, this is the right to social security of other citizens guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia, as it is the duty to ensure social security for all citizens. The Institute for the Prohibition of Derogation and Loading is a means of insurance by which the Republic of Slovenia seeks to protect its claim or right. Therefore, the purpose of the institute to register the prohibition of alienation and burden was never to reduce the number of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and also not the number of beneficiaries of a protective allowance. But that's what happened. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore eliminated the most urgent shortcomings of social legislation as early as 2013, when it adopted certain amendments to legislation that proved to be the most attractive in practice. On 1 January 2014, the amendments to social legislation, which, inter alia, gave effect to the fact that there is no longer a need to repay monetary social assistance and exceptional monetary social assistance received by a person for 12 months or less if he has received it for more than 12 months, shall be limited to deducting from the aid received first 12 maximum monthly amounts and then one third from the remaining monthly amounts of the aid received. The government has also committed itself by means of a coalition agreement to burden the beneficiaries of a lower-value property security allowance with the prohibition of the disposal of property. The Ministry of Labour has already put forward a proposal for a novel that brings a similar solution to that proposed by the opposition party. In the proposal for a government novelty, it is proposed to delete the registering institute of the prohibition of estrange and the real estate burden held by the beneficiary of the financial social assistance or the protective allowance which is eligible for those rights because, in accordance with the legal provisions, there is insufficient means of subsistence. As such, a person who owns and owns a property does not exceed a legal property limit and a person who owns a residential unit in which he actually resides and has a registered permanent residence and whose value does not exceed EUR 120,000. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that a government solution is more appropriate, so we will not support the opposition party's proposal. We will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. However, we must touch the institute of a family assistant, which has not yet been touched by the government novel. According to our firm conviction, we must also regulate the status of these persons as soon as possible. The fact is, among the beneficiaries of a family helper are those who need help only in their old age, including those who need help from birth or early childhood. Services for these persons are available until the age of 26, free of charge, and are later treated as all others, although the Government acknowledges that these disabled persons do not possess large assets, because they are not capable of doing so, which means it is pointless to insist on the payment of the aid and the related property record, as this in practice causes more problems than positive consequences. The Government has undertaken to regulate this area when it has announced that it intends to propose the abolition of the succession restriction only in this right and for a limited range of beneficiaries, because in cases where a disabled person is not in institutional protection, it needs 24-hour protection in the form of the assistance of a family assistant, problems arise and is also in the interests of society as a whole to facilitate their lives. We are aware of the need to obtain the consent of local communities for this change, and we are now calling on all local communities to support such a measure. Let me recall, in the context of social protection policies, it is the responsibility of the State and local communities to provide conditions in which individuals can participate creatively and realize their development potential and by their activities achieve a quality of life that meets the criteria of human dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria Bachič. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we oppose the return of social assistance and all similar benefits. That is why we have recently proposed a complete abolition of returnability in the consideration of the Succession Act, but our amendment has not been adopted. Let me begin by saying that the law that we are considering today does not eliminate the returnability of a roof marriage. However, it removes the return of social assistance, a protective allowance and some other social security benefits in the field of legislation, and we will therefore support it at this stage of the procedure. We are also convinced that with higher taxation of capital and high income, we can provide sufficient resources not only to eliminate returnability, but also to raise all prices to at least the minimum cost of living. I'll go back to this last thought. Prior to that, the situation in the area of social security benefits and the reasons for this situation being what it is are said to be bad. Since the introduction of this law in February, the Ministry of Labour has also prepared its proposal. Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak appears in the role of Minister as the solver of the problem, which, in fact, was created by her own secretary of state. Because of the legislation adopted by Pahor's coalition, 50,000 people in Slovenia have lost their social benefits. Among them were virtually all recipients of state pensions and more than three quarters of recipients of a protective allowance. These are older people, especially women, and most of them come from developing regions that are at risk. The Ministry, which should pay particular attention to these vulnerable groups of working classes, struck directly at them. A politician responsible for this continues to lead the ministry, even after several Members voted against it for its interpretation. When assessing the responsibility for the current situation, it should also be said that the current Social Security Benefits Act, although adopted by the Pahor Coalition, was also implemented during the second Janša government. The then government and the coalition, according to the SDS, have not abolished their recovery mandate. The first serious amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act was made only during the Prime Minister Alenka Bratušek and was of a more cosmetic nature. In other words, the second Janšev government continues to save on the socially disadvantaged, which began with the Pahor government. As it is known, the Social Security Benefits Act has set the minimum income of 288 euros, but before this decision even started to apply, the Pahor's Coalition with the Intervention Act has reduced the minimum income to 260 euros. The second Janšev government extended this measure with Zujf. There is no point in losing words here about Zuyph, including the unconstitutional reduction of pensions for 26,000 pensioners. And this was done by a coalition in which Desus, who was also a party at the declaration level, is said to advocate the rights of pensioners. That the right governments were not much more social than Pahoreva, it also shows that in 2008 the number of poor people increased by as much as 16,000 compared to 2007. Despite the credit overheating of the economy and the low unemployment rate, there were 241,000 people living below the poverty risk threshold in 2008. All of this points to the serious errors of social policy or, more specifically, to the anti-social orientation of all these governments. On the basis of this, citizens can themselves create an opinion on the credibility of the proposer and the government to act as a solution to the problem that they themselves have created. As regards the content of the proposal, our assessment is that it is satisfactory at this stage. But in the United Left we have been saying all the time that it is necessary to eliminate the return on all social benefits. The payment of household care, funeral home and post-mortality are also social benefits obtained only by those who do not exceed the price of income and property. These funds are issued on purpose, with which no one can earn unjustifiably, as a rule, they are not high amounts. Therefore, it is all the more pointless that, despite the abolition of the return on social assistance, the people should also return these other social contributions. That is why, as we say, the socialists at the July session proposed the deletion of the Institute for Refund of Social Remuneration in the Succession Act. As before a good year, when we first considered a similar proposal, this time the government's main argument is that, with the total elimination of returnability, I quote, "were making the social funds poor". This phrase was once written by the Constitutional Court and now appears as a chronic argument by those who have turned social aid into credit. But, look, paying social assistance to people who meet all income tax rates isn't poverty of social funds, it's social assistance. This is the implementation of the basic task of these social funds, not their poverty. For most of our citizens, this is self-evident because social assistance is one of the basic human values at stake. However, because of this, of course, I will not convince the Ministry's management that social assistance is a key part of the social state and social security that the government and the ministry must provide in accordance with their constitutional duty. We therefore reject any talk about the poverty of social funds when it comes to payments of already too low social assistance. One way or another, they always get involved in spending on the most vulnerable and the poorest. In some detailed discussions on budget poverty, it is never, for example, when we talk about tax breaks that are best paid or capital that are actually those that are actually poorer than the social funds, and they are supported by our political class and its governments. Social assistance comes from the budget and the budget is fueled by taxes and taxes. Governments that have been in power for the past 10 years have systematically reduced the potential revenues and thus have indeed impoverished the budgets of the country and the municipalities. However, the budget was the most impoverished measures: the reduction of corporate income tax during the first and second of the Janša government; the abolition of the tax on paid salaries by the first of the Janša government, in which Desus, as usual, abolished the tax, which at least partially compensated the pension deficit after 1996; the double reduction in income by 10% of the best paid in the country under the mandate of the Cerara government, for the first time last year and for the second time at the September meeting of the National Assembly. If we draw the line, we can say that social funds or budgets are certainly not poor people who are not provided with their own incomes or survival, but governments that systematically reduce taxes on high incomes and capital for 10 years. If we are even more current here, we can say that social states do not impoverish people who have built houses with their own denial, but organisations such as the Roman Catholic Church, who have seized our common social property, now claim millions of damages from the country, and we citizens are paying them social contributions. But, of course, in the case of the RDC, the Constitutional Court and the Government did not detect the poverty of the social funds. It is certainly clear to everyone in this Chamber that the Institute of Real Estate Recording is not intended to protect social funds but to intimidate recipients. In response to our question, Minister Anja Kopač Mrak replied that in 2014 the recipients of the social benefits returned the poor €216 000. The data on the amount of assets acquired by the Republic of Slovenia by the sale of real estate could not be provided and it stated that these assets were low. That's why this institute isn't only inhumane, but it's also pointless. At a time when fundamental income debates are taking place in advanced societies, we still have social repression instead of social policy. Instead of discussing basic income, we have to prove to the ruling suit that social aid must not be credit. This credit social policy stems from the surviving assumption that applicants for social assistance are speculators, although research shows that the percentage of abuse is extremely low. This is a matter of foreign research, because even the state's top representatives are talking about abuses without having any analysis of the actual violations. As this is a general debate, I will also briefly identify myself with an alternative proposal from the Ministry of Labour, which is currently under public scrutiny. After all, the coalition is likely to reject this proposal by arguing that it will propose a better solution. The Ministry's proposal foresees that cash social assistance and a security allowance will not be refunded if the recipient owns property that does not exceed €120,000. From the point of view of our programme, this proposal still does not fully address the problem and is not socially fair. According to our estimate, there are two major shortcomings. Firstly, not all social benefits are still covered, secondly, people in real distress will still have to help. At the outset, I said that we are in the United Left against the return of any social benefit, not just a protective allowance and social assistance. Imagine someone demanding a child's allowance back. For us, therefore, there is no valid reason for anyone to be forced to return, for example, the congregation’s household allowance. Therefore, we continue to claim that the institution of return must also be removed from the roof law, which is the Law of Succession. And we suggested that a few months ago. This would also eliminate difficulties in determining the value of real estate to which no social assistance is needed. We are in favour of each socially disadvantaged citizen receiving monetary assistance, even if he owns property worth more than €120,000. Of course, provided that he actually resides in this property. According to our legislation, it is considered appropriate to have a flat for one person 60 square meters and for two persons 90 square meters. Whoever knows the prices of apartments in Ljubljana or on the coast knows that property worth €120,000 is not a luxury property there. If the Ministry's proposal is adopted, someone who owns a flat worth EUR 121 000 will have to return social assistance, someone who owns an apartment worth EUR 119 000, not. Someone who owns an old one-bedroom apartment in a better neighborhood in Ljubljana will have to return social assistance, but someone who has a much larger and newer apartment in a smaller place will not. And here the Ministry's proposal violates all fundamental principles of justice. However, another additional problem needs to be pointed out. Our system of social benefits is built on the concept of suitable housing. The size of a suitable apartment depends on how many people live in it. The Ministry's proposal breaks this principle and places a fixed limit of €120,000, which is why it treats the owner who lives alone for €120,000 in an apartment as the owner who lives in the same apartment with the dependent members. I therefore reiterate that every fictitious criterion is lifeless and socially unfair. Social workers are required to deal with whether a property is worth €120,000 or €121,000, instead of dealing with what they are there for, that is, with social work. Therefore, in the United Left, it is proposed that the immovable in which the recipient actually resides should not be taken into account in the right to social assistance. Here we must be aware that 85% of our people live in ownership apartments. With us, the ownership of an apartment or a house is not limited to material layers, such as in Western Europe. Thank God it's different with us. This does not mean, of course, that we will assign social assistance to rich people or speculators. Whoever owns another property must take this into account in the award price. But if someone is concerned about receiving social assistance from people living in luxury apartments, we can do much more justly with the property tax. If a person is socially threatened, his tax debt should be transferred to his offspring. But no one has the right to force people to sell houses and apartments they actually live in. This would result in gentrification, thus evicting poorer people from better neighbourhoods. This would give us, as is the case in the West, unacceptable segregation of the population. That is why, in the United Left, we are committed to the total elimination of the return on social assistance. Having a socially disadvantaged person owns a house or an apartment is good for society. In this case, the company has one less housing problem. And the fact that the descendants of a socially endangered person inherit an apartment or a house is also good. Poverty is inherited, so it is not wrong for someone who comes from a poor environment to inherit a house or an apartment. Once again, this man will have at least one less problem in his life. This problem will also disappear from the broader society agenda. It will never be possible to completely prevent social assistance from receiving any kind of speculative mutiny, but such an example is really rare. What is worse is that the thousands of people who need help today do not receive this assistance because of intimidation, while we are listening to our political class, that, in our social assistance, those who are not actually entitled to it are being fed. After all, this social assistance is a maximum of EUR 288 and is not fully returned after the present law. That is why the poverty of social funds is a premeditated problem and, in fact, just an excuse for saving at the weakest. If the abolition of property returns increased the number of recipients of social assistance by 10,000, a maximum of €35 million would be needed. This is about as much as the RDC is supposed to receive in damages and interest. So it is not true that we cannot afford the removal of repayability, we can afford it if we decide that instead of being capitalists, such as the church, we will be paying public funds to socially disadvantaged people. If I put on balance the government proposal and the proposal before us, I must say that the proposal before us is more just and more lifelike. At the same time, I note that all the articles in this law, which are also open in the Ministry's proposal, are open. I therefore call on the coalition to support the law at this stage and in the second reading propose its solutions. In this way, the adoption of the law can be accelerated for several months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Kordish. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Although this is an extremely important topic, today it should be Minister Anja Kopač Dark. It is true that today the whole of Slovenia is wondering where the Minister is. “Colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing again the proposed amendments to the law on social security benefits of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities did nothing in this area last year. It is a feeling that without the opposition, there would be a real death in this national assembly. However, the circumstances are such, and they are worrying and therefore require hard work from all, including from the coalition and also from the ministry. The monetary social assistance and the social security allowance are social security benefits that should enable at least the weak to provide at least the basic conditions for a decent, life-worthy person. In fact, the level of risk of poverty has been steadily increasing since 2008, and Nova Slovenija has been constantly alerting. We re-evaluate that a number of left-wing measures have not been taken by left-handed governments. The number of recipients of cash social assistance has been steadily increasing since 2012, when there were 533 thousand 11 beneficiaries. This year there are only 437 thousand 624 of them by August, if I count them after months. Thus, the projection shows that these recipients will receive social money at the end of year 656 thousand or even more. On the other hand, the number of recipients of the protective allowance decreased following the implementation of the amendments to the social legislation of the then Minister of Svetlik in 2012. Many older ones have given up receiving a protective allowance in fear of losing the property they live in, or without the possibility of having access to, this property if the state places a restraining order on it. We imagine when someone, and in the countryside in general, spends his whole life together, as they say, a real estate, a house, an economic building, we imagine what this person has to do with what he's been creating all his life. The transfer of the protective allowance to the social transfer system has radically reduced the number of recipients of the protective allowance. As we have already pointed out a year ago when this law is being considered, in the National Assembly, at the proposal of the competent Ministry of Social Affairs, we are always talking only about fines, minimum changes in the equivalent scales and monetary social assistance prices, but we are not addressing the causes of the increasing poverty of recipients of monetary social assistance and the protection allowance. This is precisely why Christian Democrats are proposing proposals for lower taxes and burdens of work to encourage the opening of new jobs in order to encourage private initiative and so that all people can enjoy a decent life through their work. Unfortunately, the coalition stops our proposals with a voting machine. We must also draw attention to the so-called state pensions which were abolished in 2012 by the Svetlik Act. This was a great blow and also a great humiliation for some 16,000 people. If the citizen has then decided, he has submitted an application for a social benefit or a protective allowance. This is linked to the obligation to reimburse legitimate heirs and, therefore, many beneficiaries do not decide to receive these transfers. The result is that rural distress is mainly increasing. All of this and much more are devastating consequences of the poor response of left-wing governments to the economic and social crisis. Otherwise, we will support this amendment because it brings at least something to the weak, but it is not a long-term systemic solution. We once again call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fully regulate the social policy in a way that respects human dignity as soon as possible. Above all, it is time for the Government to ensure the effective financing of the social state. This means more listening to the Slovenian economy, which creates new value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Joseph Horvat. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Pojbič, representative of the proposer, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. We're back to the same problem as ever. When we propose a good law, a very good law, a good solution for our citizens and citizens in the Slovenian Democratic Party, a coalition as a machine comes along with government support and overruns it. Today, I have practically not heard any tangible argument why our law that we have proposed in this area is not good enough for the government coalition and the government, together with the amendments, to fix it and it could enter into force as soon as possible. I think that would be the only smart, smart, responsible thing to do. But since the Slovenian Democratic Party is the proposer of this law, all coalition parties have announced in their position that they will not support this proposal. Really, really unreasonable. I don't know how much longer we're going to be working on this principle in this National Assembly. I don't know how much longer. I think that we were all chosen here in this National Assembly to look for the best solutions. The law we are proposing is significantly better than the government has proposed. Much better. I used to say why in my position. I will not repeat the argument after the argument. We made it very clear. My fellow Member, when she spoke about the position of the Group of Members, also made it very clear where those values were. But nothing! For the government coalition, this law is unacceptable to the government. And then she comes up with some proposal, because she's scared because the elections are coming up, they're seriously losing those customers in the ratings, and then she needs to bring someone to the National Assembly. Better than nothing, but not good enough. But it's only because the elections are slowly approaching. I find that completely unacceptable. Once again, I am convinced that the law that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party is better, and there would be no problem if we joined the coalition, the government and the opposition, and in those parts where anyone else has any thought, we would have completed it in such a way as to be acceptable to everyone. Above all, it is important that it enters into force as soon as possible. To get rid of that nonsense or what to call it – the mess that was made in 2011 when the government was run by the Social Democrats. Social Democrats are now those who now propose solutions to what they themselves have adopted. Svetlik's law was the law of the Social Democrats. It said this nonsense about people suffering today. I come from the Slovenian Mountains myself, I know an older lady who has 280 euros in pension, she has a small house that, in my opinion, is not worth more than 50 or 60 000 euros, and she has given up a protective allowance. Now you can imagine – this lady lives on 280 euros because she packed this house with blood blisters for 30 or 40 years. With this law, we gave her a label on her house, and she can't even sell it, even if she wanted to go to a small apartment. He can't. And so on and so on and so forth. Then we are talking here about our credibility, how the SD, Desus and so on are customers with a great social heart. It is these people who have made this decision that today these people are truly living below the poverty threshold, not just below the poverty threshold, that is not a decent life at all. And these people warned me, they say, Marian, look up and go up there to that area of ours, to the periphery. How many people like that are there? Either they live alone or they live two lives, one has a pension and the other has virtually nothing. There's a lot of these people. Many times in the past, one of them went to work, and the other had a farm at home 1.5 acres [1.5 ha], resulting in, knows who to destroy our agriculture, and thus lived through it. In the end, of course, he lost his pension. I think it's really insatiable and unacceptable. In the law the government has proposed, there are some interesting writings that I will quote, so no one will be able to say that I made it up because the government wrote it. She wrote: "It is estimated that the right to a protective allowance was cancelled by about 13,000 people due to the property registration." And that's 13,000 people I've talked about before who have 250, 260, 280 or 300 euros in pension. These are the people. And here we have a customer, Desus, and I really hope that the Slovenian people will overlook it once and tell them that they have nothing left to look for here. They have nothing left to look for in Parliament because they do not represent their interests, they represent only privileged groups, those who already have too much. Instead of representing the interests of these people, these people should be represented. I think that's why they were elected, but they don't do that. It's one thing to talk, another to work. And today they have made it very clear, 'we will not support this law, which you have prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party.' But the arguments were not to say, well, away from some real argument that a person could even take them as arguments. It further writes in this paper: "The rate of poverty risk in 2015 was 14.3% in Slovenia and fell for the first time in two years; in 2013 and 2014 it was 14.5% and in 2012 it was 13.5%. This means that in Slovenia there were around 290,000 people living below the poverty risk threshold in 2015. I have to tell you, I don't believe this information because it's not accurate. There are at least 400 thousand of them, and this is practically a third of all citizens and citizens living below the poverty line. You must also count on those who have two children at home, and one is employed in the house and receives a minimum wage. How many of these people are there? And then it divides into four and you'll see how much more there are those who live below the threshold of poverty. We laugh here, we have fun, we joke and we come up with such ease to read the position, "yes, and we're not going to support this law that will help these people." At least a little help to make it easier for us to survive, because a protective allowance is just a supplement to a pension or a difference that can come to that threshold, that's all. We forced people to move away from it and they said, "what I've been doing for 40 years or 50 years, and no one will take that away from me." Or it's a background for hidden nationalization so that the country can easily get back to what people with bloody stings were producing when they didn't even put a cent in it. People had to pay taxes for every brick, every bag of cement. Today, in such an easy way, these people would have taken this in a nice way, just as it is now slowly working in the areas of forestry, forests and so on, that I am not at all telling where this state policy is going. Let me continue: "The calculation is based on the income received in 2014. This means that in general poverty is decreasing, but this does not apply to poverty among the elderly, in particular single, which is still twice as high as in the general population." Gentlemen of Desus, do you copy? Do you hear what I'm reading here? That's what the government has written now. What did you do for it? Tell me! And Social Democrats with a great social heart, what have you done to make it not so? You've had a government in your hands for over two years. More than two years! Social policy is a total disaster! It's a complete disaster. It's a complete disaster. The system doesn't even work. Directors of Social Work Centres ask a few questions! They say, "we don't get any practical instructions from the Ministry on how to work." Catastrophe condition! Here you come to the National Assembly representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and here we are not going to say anything, you are deceiving, and in fact the situation is completely different. The very social area is the Fevd SD, which I think is before a complete collapse. And lately it's time for the Minister of Labour and Family to leave once, because it's no wonder she's not here today because she's scared because she saw what happened in court now. Illegal child abduction. She's not supposed to show up anywhere else. She has to step down immediately. There is no longer any dilemma, he must do so because the Slovenian nation must demand it because it is across every border. And that's supposed to be a good social policy in our country! Let's keep going. The risk of poverty over 60 years of age is higher than the average in the Republic of Slovenia. A quarter of men over 70 years of age and a third of women over 70 years of age live below the risk of poverty. Among pensioners in Slovenia, more than half are exposed to poverty. And you come here simply to the National Assembly, you sit down, you come read the position, and you say, "We will not support this marriage, because something will happen." How is it possible, what is the attitude toward those who voted for you? I can't go past Desus and SD here again, not talking about – what's his name? Modern center. No, no, no. Lobby Center. A client of the lobby center, I think that's what they call it, if I'm not mistaken. I'm sorry if I said it wrong, but I think that's it. Such a team are the coalition that you do what you do, and I think you're destroying the country from point to point, instead of helping people solve the problems they face. And that's unacceptable. Among pensioners in Slovenia there are more than half of them, I have already read this, exposed to poverty, because pensions often do not reach the poverty risk threshold, for example 2015. The average net retirement pension is EUR 609, the poverty risk threshold in 2014 EUR 596. In order to improve the social situation of inactive older people, it is necessary to adapt to existing and predicted demographic movements. According to data from the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, the average net pension was EUR 561 in 2015 and the retirement pension was 609. In December 2015, more than 50% of pensioners received a pension of EUR 600, 28.8% of pensioners received a pension of less than EUR 500 and 39.5% of all pensioners received a pension of less than EUR 500. Dear gentlemen, do you think these heights are the heights at which people could survive, do you think? Did any of you sitting here try to spend 450 euros a month? Has anyone ever tried? Do you even know what that means? And then you oppose those like us in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we are proposing good solutions. And that is only because we in the Slovenian Democratic Party are the ones who are able to invest in time, speedily and perfectly. If it were not for the Slovenian Democratic Party and I would not have left some other opposition parties here in Parliament, I do not know what we would actually be discussing. We would only discuss how to place a new burden on citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. What you did yesterday in the Motor Vehicle Act. Shame, pure shame. And for the last time, let's not talk the day before, when we had an interpretation on the agenda against the health minister, what kind of pigs are still in there. I can't, I just can't really understand that it's the way it is. So that someone can come with their left hand to present the position here and say "I will not support the law" and state some arguments that are far from some truth, or are arguments that no one understands. Today I listened to some of the views of the parliamentary groups, I didn't really know, at first there were a few lines of marriage, and then there was no content in the back. The manipulation itself, the conversion of sentences, the left, the right, and with what difficulty was then said, "we will not support this law". Since there is no appropriate argument to reject this law, they do not exist. And the coalition and the socially sensitive parties should, most simply, say that in the first reading, we support this law, we amend it until the second reading, and the law will enter into force as soon as possible. We would have solved one big problem for our people on the social goods themselves. I am sure that there is still a possibility that by the end of this debate, Members and Members, those who are really concerned with these people, you will change your opinion and support this bill, because it is definitely, as I have said in the introduction and the arguments already stated, better than what the government has proposed. And most importantly, the time of acceptance. This law can be applied very quickly. But the one who came from the government is once again the question of how long it will take, which means that we are still additionally burdening those people, instead of immediately helping, at this point, if we know that the policy pursued by the Social Democrats in the social field is so wrong, and now we all have found together, the government has found that it is wrong, then you would expect to say, look, we have recognised the mistake, we are incompetent, the Minister must immediately with his team on top, go, put other people there and support what is of quality. As I said before, we have been doing this in the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time, trying to be a constructive opposition, not the opposition that besets someone. That is why we come with quality legislation, and we do not have the whole structure of the government, the ministry, of all these employees, who are often self-inflicted. Only so much so that it gets slower and slower, because if you don't do anything, you can't answer for anything and so on. The philosophy of some individuals within all the subsystems we have in society and in the country. And that's wrong. I think there's going to be a lot of work to be done in this area. I hope that this coalition and this government will, at least before the elections, come to the senses, I hope, for the benefit of our citizens and citizens, especially those who live on the brink of poverty. Therefore, once again, I would like you to reconsider by the end of this session, those Members and Members, who are something for these people who live on the threshold of poverty, and then support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Urosh Prikl, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. I respectfully ask you to warn my colleague Pojbič that in his implementation, there is a need to abstain from judgment of value, who has something and who has nothing to look for in the National Assembly. It was explicitly said that Desus had nothing to look for here. It is always up to the electorate and the electorate to decide who may be or to whom a decision is given in the National Assembly and who remains at the door of the National Assembly. I must say that, in every composition of the National Assembly, I would like a fellow Member, Mr Pojbič. Marian would be very nice if you would listen to me when I speak and directly relate to your debate. Why, though, do I want Marian Pojbiè to always sit in the National Assembly? Since one expansion of this National Assembly, its ideas are good at the end stage, they are constructive, including its discussions on the home working body. Directly focus and throw away one political group from the National Assembly, but I really don't think it's right. He must have focused on Desus because I listened to him very carefully, watched him and listened to what he was discussing and how he was discussing. I wish we could all come up with the right solutions together. If my colleague Pojbič thought about my implementation, in my view of the Group of Members, that it was pamphlets and that it was some kind of blinding, of course it was not. I confess to my colleague Pojbic that in this proposal he has taken a step forward, if not the other, Marian, if not the other, you have done that by encouraging the government or the ministry to come up with a proposal that I assess if my time is left in the debate, I will also tell you which points are better than your proposal, why it is better and how it will affect people's well-being in the long term. Above all, we all need to know together, and we probably realize that there is no way to be and cannot be or remain a dilemma: to get something from the country so that you can make a decent living, and, on the other hand, to hesitate or an alternative to keeping a hard-boiled asset if you want, a house, an apartment, a property and leave it to the tenants. I don't think it's right for Marian to use the fact that I'm listening to you and because you look at me, you get at Desus and you talk about not having anything to look for here. However, I believe, I am sure, and I must admit that we have done little in the past, or especially for the pensioners, who have paid the highest price for the social crisis and the past period. And we're fixing that. With this law, which the government is preparing and will come to Parliament next month, we are correcting a social solution. And the right thing to do is to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich has heard the warning. Here you are, Mr. Pojbich, a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. My purpose was completely different. I just wanted to point out that you are the customer of Desus who says you are socially sensitive, and if we have such a bill on the table, it would be right to support it in the first reading, because you know that in the second reading it can be prepared so that it will be suitable for all and for all quality, so that we can immediately solve this problem that we have before us. That's what I was going to say, and I hope you've understood me in that sense. My interest is that we all stand together and do good for people. Not who's in which client. But I can't tell you otherwise, you're a member of Desus and I can't tell you that you're a member of the SD because you're a member of Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs Martina Vuk, Secretary of State, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I appreciate your honesty and directness, Mr Pojbich, I like it. However, when we refer to certain particulars, we need to know what the sources are and do not refer to them. Therefore, it is up to you, of course, whether you believe it or not. But when you read that information that the government used in their position, we didn't make it up. That is, basic indicators of poverty and social exclusion, the level of risk of social exclusion in 2014 20.4, in 2015 19.2. Poverty risk rate in 2014 14.5, in 2015 14.3 Level of serious material deprivation in 2014 6.6 in 2015 5.8. Rate of very low labour intensity, age from 0 to 59 years in 2014 8,7 in 2015 7,4. That's not our data. They are not data from our Ministry, but are data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. Nor did they start to measure last year or this year, but they have been measured all these years according to the same methodology as the European Union methodology, which is comparable to other countries in the European Union. Just as you referred to the same data last year on last year's measurement, and last year's data presentation, when the level of risk of poverty has risen, it is right that you trust or say now, we will not talk about the risk of poverty, we will not talk about social exclusion at all, but we will talk about people's feelings. And I agree. The feeling of people is extremely important, the most important feeling of people. Because the one who feels that his condition is bad, that he is not living well, that he is not feeling well, and that he is not feeling well, no matter what his actual material situation is, he will not live well. I agree. But this year's data also show by people's self-assessment that self-esteem has improved, so people are assessing themselves to live better. I always say the same thing, that even if one person is poor alone, it won't do him any good if there aren't another 100,000 like himself, or a million of them, or if it's just him. For him, life will be the same, so we must strive to improve these numbers. Because improving numbers also means better quality of life for each individual and individual. Therefore, these assessments should be based on something from which we come. And I agree with you and you have just stated that the level of risk of poverty among the elderly is higher than the average. And it's significantly higher. Hands on your heart, she's been taller the whole time. But it is not right, because if we can say that inactive households, which also have a high risk of poverty, we will approach them with social activation, where it is the one who is able to work, who, for such and other reasons, cannot get a job, so that it can be approached to enable it to eliminate its discomfort or some condition that makes it impossible to become active and that also allows it to approach the labour market. And we'll do it with social activation. However, in the case of the elderly, it is difficult to say that they will be activated because they cannot be activated because it is wrong to activate them because they have already given this activity in terms of employment, in terms of other incomes. Therefore, these figures are important in order to reduce the risk of poverty among the elderly in a way that enables them to receive passive benefits, i.e. social transfers. Given that the criteria, censorship and other conditions for obtaining such monetary social assistance and, above all, the protective allowance will now not change – is our purpose? By means of this proposal for a law on which a public debate was concluded yesterday, let us relieve people of this fear. Yes, because people have been intimidated by many, such and different reasons and purposes. But it wasn't right for them to be intimidated. It wasn't right. Because no one has told them clearly and loudly enough or someone has just told them that they will not pay for the time of life, that no one will take away their house or the dwellings that have been difficult to build with their own hands and with their own resources, but that only after death will they be able to see whether they have any inheritance and will be paid for from that inheritance. But, yes, practice has indeed shown that, despite comparing internationally, practice in other countries, that related arrangements are such that it is expected that first those who need help will cash all their property and then ask for assistance from the country that the situation in Slovenia is different. And it turned out that this fear and this spread of fear were so powerful that people were afraid that anyone would take away anything from them during their lifetimes and that they would have to move and make a hard decision about change. We have taken this lease and therefore we are now proposing changes. But changes in the way that one limit must exist. One limit must exist, but on which we must agree — what is it that someone is poor? What, though, is it that someone has to ask for additional help and must receive it? That is why this price is 120 000 euros that we can talk about, of course. But as I say, there must be a limit. Unfortunately, Mr Kordish is no longer here, but when we talk about justice, what is absolute and ultimate justice, how will we ever achieve absolute justice in this world? Very hard. We therefore need to reach some social consensus on what is right and wrong in our society. And once we reach that consensus, we can also implement it. As long as there is no consensus, however, as long as some laws give us evidence of how much we can burden congregations that are unable to bear all these financial costs. In other laws, however, we will say, no matter what the congregations think, we will intervene, but we cannot say for so long that we have agreed on the basic assumptions and point to this ministry, how it destroys the social state and how it is solely responsible for the situation of the people in this country. It's hard to talk like that. When we say that nothing has been done in all these years, you have in fact all pointed out in your opening remarks which legal changes have already been adopted, both as regards the law on social security benefits and as regards the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. That means you know very well that the changes have been. And changes have always been based on those analyses that have been regularly carried out on the social situation of people, on the level of risk of poverty, on the situation of families. On this basis, legal changes were also made. But if someone thinks that the situation of people is isolated, completely independent of how the unemployment rate increased in 2009-2014, if someone thinks that this situation is completely isolated from how negative economic growth was, if someone thinks that this situation is completely independent of what the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has achieved, then it is difficult to talk about the same criteria and the same starting points in which we are. We probably agree, however, that the situation of people still depends on the situation in which the country is located. And luckily and with a lot of effort, this situation is better today. Next year, when we talk about the risk of poverty, it will be even lower than it was this year. And this next year will also be based on revenue from 2015. So it will not show the real situation in 2017, in which we will be next year, because it is so with statistics. That is why we must also anticipate going forward, not just looking at this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, Madam Secretary of State, I used the document you wrote. That's a fact. At the same time, even if these data are held, they are extremely alarming and unacceptable to Slovenia, where we have 2 million people and almost 400 000 below the poverty threshold. It's unacceptable. Then we can ask ourselves what social policy we have in this society and in this country. I am sure that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Disabled Persons and Equal Opportunities do not need us if it is not to blame for anything. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Persons with Disabilities and Equal Opportunities is the one that guides policy in this area. However, I do not claim to be exempt from the rest of the functioning of this country. But it's responsible, definitely. And this ministry has been in the hands of an SD party for too long. That's why it's the way it is. It's been in his hands too long, too many lobbying in the back, too many connections and so on. Madam Secretary of State, when you were talking about intimidation, now I want to hear who was scaring someone and when people gave up a protective supplement. I demand that you tell me this, or you lie and deceive the public. People gave up a protective supplement because they refused to let anyone take what they had worked for for 40, 50, or 60 years. But you tell me who it is that has intimidated them, and against them there is a charge to be brought against them. I demand that you give me a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Nada Brinovšek and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Secretary of State! I like your energetic performance very much, so that the people we're accompanying you better remember what you're telling the public. Perhaps you have been encouraged to do so by young visitors whom I welcome. But look, Madam Secretary of State, this law, which you say is now under public scrutiny, I'm talking about the law on social security benefits, this law, which is under public scrutiny, you're essentially correcting your mistake. Your mistake or more precisely the mistake of the Svetlik-Dark connection has made a mistake, and this mistake must now be corrected. I show respect and recognition that you have detected a mistake and that you are willing to correct it. But I would have wanted to, and I am of the opposition that the coalition here is united. You guys need to stick together. This is not the concern of Members of New Slovenia, but this is your concern. Here I also see that it is some prestige of the Social Democrats, who just pushed this law out into public debate and how much information I have, I do not know if all my colleagues in the coalition have been familiar with this law. But that's not today's theme. The topic is social policy, the topic is in fact Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, which says that Slovenia is a legal and social state. I think this is one of the most important articles of all 174 articles. We had, interestingly, a very good debate yesterday in the late afternoon hours of the Committee on Finance when we discussed the budget documents for 2018. We were not just talking about accounting, accounting, just numbers, but we were wondering what the answers to the 2018 budget of the Republic of Slovenia are to the question of how we will live in 2018, how we will live in this country in relation to the budget, which is just a budget of EUR 9 billion. How will the old people live, how will active people live, how will young people live, how will they not leave this country? Unfortunately, young people educated do not need to study budget documents that are such a trick, but they have a feeling and so quickly decide where to make their potentials, intellectuals and others easier. We in New Slovenia want to be in Slovenia, foreigners tell us what a beautiful country we have, that we live a rich life, that we are here rich people, that we live in prosperity. We understand prosperity as spiritual prosperity, and as material prosperity, it is at least a two - dimensional prosperity, spiritual and material. That we're happy people here. But back to the policy of this government or specifically to the budget documents for 2018, where there are no guarantees that we will live fighting, there is no modernisation of the health system and the school system, there are no instruments that we would see in the budget documents that the economy will get more oxygen. There are creating new jobs, creating added value and new ones. So it's not, it's a government that's designed to rule, not to do the necessary reforms. The OECD has told us that we still have a socialist health system, and nothing moves. Now I'm not going to repeat the risk of poverty. Everyone can look at this information on the web portals, especially on the Statistical Office portal. People are not numbers, but we must count all those who live below the threshold of poverty. Thus, it is indeed frantic that nearly 290,000 people lived below the poverty threshold last year. Out of $2 million and a few 10 grand. Nearly 290,000 people lived below the poverty line. Why have we Members of New Slovenia proposed a new law on income and raising the general relief to €7,000, now there are about 3 000 200? Because the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs calculated that the annual poverty risk threshold for a single-member household last year was €7 000 399. This is my esteemed colleague mag. The spread, which is well-known for tax matters, repeatedly says that it is not morally necessary to tax that part of the income that a person or household needs to live to survive. It's not moral. But you said, no, no, we're going over what we care about morality. Okay. Interestingly, on this subject, on the subject of the Social Security Benefits Act, which was tabled this time, for the second time, colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, I asked the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister of Justice about what the Government was actually doing with the properties it had received because the State was paying someone social security benefits, how much of these properties were and what the effects of managing these properties were. Very interesting answers, and maybe I'm also with this, but I'm not an idealist, or maybe I've also encouraged the ministry and the government to think about whether it makes sense to continue on the property of recipients of social security benefits to give sealing, as we say at home. I asked how many registrations banning the disposal and loading of property are derived from the adoption of legislation. The Ministry correctly responds to the fact that, since the adoption of the law in 2012, a register of the prohibition of the alienation and the burden on the property of the beneficiaries of the financial social assistance has been entered in 6494 cases on the basis of decisions on eligibility for monetary social assistance. A total of 80 thousand 348, based on the decisions on the application of the protective allowance, was recorded in a thousand and 565 cases a registration of the prohibition on the alienation and the burden of assets on beneficiaries of the protective allowance. The total property registration referred to in this Title is 11 000 109. Next question: In how many cases did the owner of the property or parts of the property become the Republic of Slovenia? Answer: In 2015, we had about 150 cases on the acquisition of property rights based on the limitation of inheritance under Article 128 of the Succession Act and in the first half of 2016 about 110 cases. Next question: How many of these properties are buildings, and how many are land? Answer: For the most part, more than 95% are agricultural and forest land. Next question: What is the total area of these lands, and what is the total square of buildings or other buildings? Answer: We do not keep data on the number and surface of the land and the squares of the dwellings. Next question: Who, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, manages this property and how? The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is appointed as the manager of the building and built-up land on the basis of a decision on succession by a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the case of agricultural and forestry land, a proposal shall be sent to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia to be designated as manager. And the following question: What are the benefits of this property for the Republic of Slovenia? Answer: In 2015 we sold 11 properties, for them we received 83 thousand 158 euros. Interesting numbers that should have taken some action long after our assessment. Look, colleagues and colleagues, for 25 years now we have a country of our own and we in New Slovenia are really wondering what we need to do, what measures the Government must take, so that we can step firmly into the times of prosperity for all citizens. I understand that the crisis has hit Slovenia very hard. I understand that the data is still frightening, actually. Last year we created only 3.39% more than in 2008, which was a year before the crisis, if I look at GDP, compare gross social product. And in these seven years, we have increased GDP by only 3.39%, that today we have the number of active people, active citizens by about 62 thousand less than in 2008, says the active population is about 62 thousand less than in 2008. This suggests a great need for new jobs. I don't mind if Gini's coefficient for Slovenia shows that we're an egalitarian society, I don't mind, but it bothers me that we're an egalitarian society in poverty. And the question remains what we need to do so that citizens with fantastic potential can relax you at home in Slovenia, not abroad. That's why I'm so worried when I'm looking at data on the migration deficit. More so when I look at the data that we have a negative natural population growth. This should be a red light, an alarm for this government and under emergency, and indeed, following an emergency procedure, some measures should be taken. The opposition, mainly the right-wing bloc of the opposition, the right-wing thing of the opposition proposed a fantastic number of solutions, but almost everyone, well, yes, the vast majority were simply driven. So what are we waiting for? Only that time will spin, spin, spin, and one day the time will come for the well-being, prosperity for everyone in Slovenia, not just for those with long fingers. That is why this debate on this amendment makes sense, and it makes sense to ask how and who will finance the social state, because we know the answers. In fact, the answers to all the difficult questions I have read somewhere, 95% of the Slovenians, but the 5% who don't know them or don't want to know them, they may be blocking measures that could make people happier and more satisfied in this auction. I do not know what contact the Government or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has with the countryside and the outskirts of the Slovenian state. It is nice to live in Ljubljana, where there are relatively good jobs, good employment, but when you drive east, when you look at the problem areas, the least developed regions, you know, it's not easy there. But more importantly, we have legal solutions to raise the least developed areas, specifically Pomurje, the Pomur region, more broadly, in a developmental sense at least for a nuance. We have a law adopted here, but the government says, "no, we'll make an exception, which law on development support to the Pomurska region we don't have to respect." The Government knowingly does not provide sufficient financial resources for the implementation of this law. There's actually no answer here. And all of this is about new jobs and all of this is about the social situation of citizens and citizens of this country. Our concern is, all of us 90 — although we are now a little bit smaller, because usually, if the opposition proposal comes to the table, they quickly collapse – our task is, the eyes of Slovenian citizens are fixed on us, as a rule, the demonstrations are here in front of our house, in front of the National Assembly, not in front of any other institution. That's what I'm worried about. That's why my debate is this way. I didn't want to offend anyone, I have no intention of doing this, it's not my way, but somehow I expect this government machine to actually put on the table, to put on the table some concrete solution on the House of Representatives to improve the social situation in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. Prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. There are very few Members here in the Chamber, but there is no Minister by the Ministry, no Secretary of State Sorry, yes, she just arrived at the Hall. [[…]] Look, if citizens are following us today and listening to what we're talking about here, I think they're a little confused. When we listened to the views, my colleague Pojbič explained what we were proposing with our marriage, while by the coalition we listened mainly to what is not, what is the old law, what is the new law, how the new system law is prepared by the Government and so on. I'll tell you in my own way, so my Upper Savinians will understand me up there in the Savina Valley. See, the Slovenian Democratic Party is proposing a second amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act this year. And what is that? What do we propose with this law? This law suggests that beneficiaries receiving or receiving money or a security allowance will no longer have to return or that the State or the local community will not sit on their property. Pika. It is true, as we have heard, that this law applies mainly to those who are below the threshold of poverty, but I think that some other citizens are also interested in changing this law into the welfare of people, as we propose. As we have just talked or stuttered, 14.3% of citizens live below the poverty line, whether it is 290,000 citizens or 400 or what 2% of citizens live below the poverty line would be too many. But not to put it that way, it's 14.3% good, because that's 290,000 going on. As has been said, the threshold of poverty is even higher for older generations. And here, fellow Desus, I hope you will support our amendment. In addition, I think we have already seen that more than 40% of pensioners receive a pension of less than €500. Do you know what 500 euros is? Can you imagine what 500 euros is? The number of persons receiving a protective allowance in 2015 also listened to the information. It's true. Nine thousand and 800 are recipients. But this year, 13,000 of them gave up because of this marriage. Ten thousand 244 are entitled to this right at this time, but they prefer to give up their property after their death to the country or to the welfare of the local community, the congregation, I will say at home. It's amazing to me that we're here so we're breaking up here and there with a security allowance or we're sitting on property or we're not. Look, with our left hand, we'll give you $5 billion for the banks. With our left hand, we give an additional 300 million to the Ljubljana Municipality to carry out some projects. I want to know how these projects are going to be implemented. During these two years, this government has hired 3,000 51 new civil servants. You know what that is? And for that, she burned 390 million in those two years. Do you know how much money that is? I have been looking in here in the government's writing, asking what amount of resources we would need to not have to pay back money aid or a security allowance, and writing down the dead coldly that it is not possible to assess, since it is impossible to obtain data on how many people do not apply monetary social assistance because of the existing legislation. Respectable fellow workers or respected secretary, however, can be ascertained, but it is only necessary to have the will to do so. Every time the government or prime minister appears on TV, he boasts of the economic growth we have. Bravo, great, that's good. But I want to know what the percentage of Slovenians who feel this economic growth is. The government had also said in its position that it was preparing a law itself, but that they were still coordinating that law to be systematic. But look, your term is now due to expire. For any system law, I'll say it's too late, and I don't think there's any need to detect hot water here, I'd rather say otherwise that the water here is already very hot. When Comrade Horvat said earlier about the social state – indeed, we say that Slovenia is a social state. But I'd say who? For individuals, for chosen individuals? For selected individuals, it is a social state, but for those, I don't like to say, but I think you're reluctant to take us to first-class and second-class. But for those second-raters, it's not a social state, it's a real stepmother. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar and Mr Jan Škobrne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Once again a nice greeting to all in the hall and to those who listen to us. The bill, prepared by the Government or at a stage when it has already passed a public debate, corrects past errors, corrects anomalies, corrects a social solution from the past, corrects itself quite late, but sometimes, much better than never. It is not and must not be a dilemma, or take the receipt of the State, the monetary social assistance, the security allowance, any receipt of the State, on the one hand, or keep its property, its apartment, its home and so on. Of course, there's no dilemma here. Which is essential for people who listen to us. In the law drawn up by the Government and expected to be in the National Assembly of December, I expect its entry into force in January, 1. 1. 2017, there are two essential components. First of all, people who receive these benefits, if I may say so, will not be deprived of their lives for nothing. Second of all, all these people who receive social security benefits, 13,000 have given up. All these people do not need to be afraid that their daughter’s sons would be without these properties, these houses, these dwellings, which people who receive these benefits, who will receive these benefits, are toiled from their mouths to create them. And this is where the story ends. Pika. People need to be clear about this and not be intimidated. But it is sad, and I must say this, that it is necessary in this country at all, that people are forced to exercise their rights to these or other transfers. That the pension does not allow them, pension as the sum of 40 years' work, denial, labor, does not allow them to live a decent life and that they must live in fear and decide what I said earlier. We have a chance here and we'll take it one step further. The White Paper on pension reform is outside, it is necessary to examine all options and reach this solution, such that no pension will be lower for anyone than that threshold for risk or social exclusion. And that's a fact. If necessary, we will simply have to give up the Institute on the basis of the minimum wage. Once again, the legislation that comes within the House of the National Assembly systematically regulates this area and people will not have to hesitate between social assistance, between the remuneration and the loss of their property. Their sons and daughters will not lose him either. At this point, we need to pour clean wine and not leave people in some kind of uncertainty. I hope that we have been clear enough here, no matter how my friend Pojbič says what political options we come from. It is for people who receive who are forced to enforce certain social transfers, and it would be right for the state to allow them to live a decent life. And that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Jan Škoberne and Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Since we have little time in the Desus Group, I shall be bound to continue what my colleague Uroš Prikl has just said. We should all be more united, and above all, I am now addressing my colleague Pojbič, who spoke a little earlier about poverty. We are certainly not immune to this problem. In the Desus Group, I would like to stress this, we are also aware that poverty is the highest among single women. These are the most socially endangered. That's why I think there's a great original sin here at the rate of pensions, in these percentages. Such low pensions are being paid due to the current law of ZPIZ-2, adopted by the government of Janša or under the minister of Vision, these percentages were adopted. Just to refresh the memory of what they're like. In 2016, the rate of one year of work for women is 1.41%, the second year will be 1.38%, by 2023 it will be only 1.3% and from 2023 onwards it will be for all, men and women 1.25%. If a man retires today, 40 years of work, his pension is set at 64.25%. A good 64%. If a woman retires today at 40 years of age, her rate of retirement is 57%. I think there's an original sin here, why pensions are so low and they'll continue to be so low if we don't change this law. Now there is a white book in the debate, as colleague Prikl has already said, and it should be up to all of us to provide solid pensions with this pension reform or, earlier, with some kind of law at their disposal. We all know how low the wages of employees are now, that there is no chance that they will be much higher, except for those minimum percentages of the lowest wages that rise. But if we think of a full-time man, male and female alike, his pension based only 57% of the pension base at the rate, and this pension base is even longer, so that it's even lower, I don't know where that leads us. Let's just think about it, first of all, that we're gonna raise pensions, that pensions will be decent when a person retires. Then, of course, this valorisation of pensions is, only if a person retires with such a low pension, the valorisation guarantees him only that his pension does not continue to be reduced in reality, but that it retains its value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The proposer has the floor, Mr. Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u108	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to be very brief. I cannot believe that someone in the House of Desus is discussing this in the way that the lady has now done, but if their party was in the government when these decisions were taken. She had a key word regarding this area, and she was the one who voted in favour of such a solution. And today there is such nonsense in Parliament. Well, I think it's too big.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Get Dr. Ange Logar and Mr. Franz Jurša ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the basic purpose of social transfers, social policy and State intervention is to, through a system of solidarity, allow a decent human life to help those who would otherwise not have the opportunity to be equal in society either to create their own existential framework or to realize their potential and the task of the State is to regulate these solidarity systems fairly and so that transfers address the needs of those to which they are intended, namely, the weakest, but not to channel resources to those who do not need assistance and support, at least in terms of social transfers. It probably happened to everyone in this hall, but mostly to all the people that they met with the debate here and there, I'll say, in the park during the walk, that I don't say exactly at the inn, when the debate was going on, that in the country, people who receive state-owned social assistance and child support and free kindergarten and something else, their children then drive into kindergarten with higher-priority cars, live in extremely large and beautiful apartments and so on. All of this has angered people and angered them even today. It is therefore important that the country, through control instruments and through an appropriate system of social transfers, prevent to the greatest extent possible social transfer, a protective supplement, a child allowance from reaching someone who has the possibility of using a car of a higher elite price class, rather than perhaps reaching a higher amount of those who are struggling with existence, to those who are unfortunately at the edge of our society even on their own existential salary. Also, the nature of the law that introduced the refund of monetary social benefits, transfers in the event of someone owning property, wanted to address this problem. Maybe he didn't address it properly. After several years of implementation of this law, we have found that it did not take due account of the actual situation in the Republic of Slovenia, where we have a significant or majority percentage of ownership apartments. Because many people were afraid that by filling on their property and thus receiving or vice versa, receiving financial social assistance, protective supplements and so on, they would lose the roof above their head, their property, because these amounts would be charged in the succession process, and that the wider members of their family, perhaps two or three generations, could live in this property, and that this solution was needed to be updated and made in accordance with their purpose. I can understand that what the SDS is proposing is also in line with the purpose here. However, it seems to me that a significantly better solution is the law that the Government is proposing in public treatment, because in my opinion it involves a fundamental solution in an appropriate way, namely that some value for the property in which the beneficiary of the financial social assistance lives is excluded from the calculation or repayment of these aids after his death, because it is a property which is a fundamental existential framework, and since the amount of this property does not give me the possibility of a luxurious life. This framework presented by the Government seems much more appropriate to me in this regard, because it seems to me that it is right that someone who has in addition to the property in which he lives and the weekend trailer, and two cars and so on, may no longer be among the most threatened ones, and perhaps it is wrong to participate in this case in solidarity, but at the same time it does not contribute. This is a question and a value system, on the other hand, the question of how we understand solidarity. Is it proper for those who have twice or three times as many to be helped as those who have nothing? It is important that both have equal opportunities and opportunities to establish their life-existence career framework and that both have the opportunity to live a decent life. As has already been said, I also view the SDS proposal as one of the possible solutions, and I think, after what I can see in the public debate, that the proposal prepared by the Government will significantly better and more effectively resolve the situation we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Prepare Mr Franz Jurša and Mrs Susana Lep Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to know how many of those who have a Porsche in their garage, a luxury villa, a house on some Croatian island, a dača in the hills, a boat, are receiving cash assistance and a security supplement. How many are there? Because if they are, something is very wrong with the system, but if they are not, and this is how the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party is broken, this is pure demagogy. The security allowance and state aid are provided by those who do not have enough assets to link the beginning of the month to the end, and the country, the social state, should probably know that. But, interestingly, this law, which allowed the sealing, seizure and sale of these properties, was created right under the Social Democratic Government, i.e. with the support of these two parties who are allegedly fighting for the principles of the Social Democratic State. We know that in 2012, she came into force, punished another government because the government had already changed in the meantime, but the law was passed when current Minister Kopač Dark was Secretary of State. Which means you can't change the law that came into force at that time, and we both know that, because if you think that way of managing the country is changing legislation every month, for good, then we have an inactive country, and that's probably not what you want. See, in this period we now have three years of operation of this law, and in that analysis provided by the legislator or not, the Government says that the penalties that have been charged in these seizures or seals and then sold after the legacy debates are up to EUR 3,000. In three years! On average; or, for example, we have cases where the cost of this is below 1,000 euros a year, within three years of the law. Imagine that this law — some will never come to the green branch, whether they have a disability or have been punished by life and so on — imagine this cost within 20 years of the validity of this social democratic law. How, then, will their offspring make this right? In the same reply, you write that of these recipients of cash aid and security supplement 60 000 400, I think in 2016 there are 7 000 700 real estates or 13%. Look how deprived this group is after this percentage! The average in Slovenia is 80% of equity and here we have 13%. So you beat them twice. For the first time, they are deprived of their status, and now those minorities who even own property sit on their property. Isn't that the double injustice of the Social Democratic bloc? My colleague Horvat presented a very interesting statistic that actually shows the real brutality of this law, which probably none of us can be aware of. But to someone who lives in such a property or who owns such land, it's scary if it's already on the social side, and then the country takes away his land. The same person, the Secretary of State in 2010, and now the Minister, took state pensions in 2010. So those of you who took their state pensions, now you're taking the land. 95% of these seizures or sales are land — again, for the third time. The fact that you are proposing a law for public consideration suggests that you have also found the wrongness of this law, which you have proposed for adoption by the National Assembly. What the secretary of state used to say about people being intimidated, what would this marriage bring? [[…]] Who was the one who intimidated them? The law itself is terrible, and the consequences of this law are terrible. What, though, of someone who suffers through a life that is on the social side even more terrifying than taking his property away from him, knowing that they will do so to his craftsmen after his death? What else is so scary? Even so, the only bright thought he has in this life was that his child would be better off not having to go through this calvary. And what does he hear today? Look, don't worry, because we're not gonna burden you, we're gonna burden your kids, they're gonna go through this calvary. You took that last light from him when you call him when you're gone and your children will pay for you. That law is unacceptable. It is also completely unnecessary from a macro-financial point of view. Half a million, in your paper, you get back from these properties. Half a million for the country is nothing, but it's half a million tragic stories, and individuals who are financially poor, the country has sat down to the only thing they have. During this debate, I was called by the person accompanying or accompanying today's debate. She had €38 of a protective allowance, and when you wanted to sit on a 200-year-old house with 38 euro of a protective supplement, she decided to live with 38 euros less a month. That's what you've achieved with this social-democratic legislation. However, EUR 38 is much less money for such a person. Once again, this law is well-intentioned and goes forward, after all, to your electorate – social democratic principles. If you have now placed this law in public treatment, you have just completed, so you have already received most of the findings, the law is in the procedure, support it in the first reading, and then build it up with the relevant findings of this public debate; but do so as soon as possible! Why wait every day? Every land seized, every house seized is one tragedy more. Since we have all agreed that the law is totally inappropriate, each day of delay with the amendment of this legislation is a lost day for the country, and above all an additional day of tragedy for those who will experience it in the meantime. Look, this is unfair to all those who are doing this to them right now, and then you're going to end it, or to those you've already taken from them, and now you're going to break this law. Can you imagine this dual morality? Under Anjo Kopač Mrak, State Secretary, it was possible for you to take away their property, seize it, and then under Anjo Kopač Mrak, Minister of State, when he finds out that his error is essentially that the seizure or seizure is inappropriate, because he is also proposing this legislation. Support me, at the end of the day, you might as well say that you didn't find this mistake, but that you were following the SDS argument. But correct this mistake that has been made in the past, and correct this inappropriate legislation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenka and Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u114	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, as well as, of course, secretary of state with colleagues! This topic is very popular and interesting for our Slovenian public. In any event, people are very interested in how in this area we will actually define the parliamentary groups of individual political parties. Some of the debaters in front of me, but I don't want to be argumentative, I have to say this, they mention the Social Democratic bloc, they say that we, Desus, were the most important in this area when this was actually accepted. None of this actually holds or is not true. With the five seats you can never be the most important in the government, but your weight is the same as the number of cities you have. Once again, the president of the party I belong to, when we receive 46 votes in this country, 46 seats, we will certainly also settle the pension issue at such a high level that people will be able to live with dignity. And when that happens, it will be settled on our side. This legislation has actually been adopted in the days of the Pahor government, those who were with us, we know and we do not deny it. Of course, I must also say that the SDS has had this opportunity and the opportunity to amend this legislation in the course of its rule. We were there, and if the biggest party suggested it, we would support it in any case. But I must say, in a coalition agreement, we have entered into a contract to settle this matter. As you have already been told by the Secretary of State and also by some of the debaters, this matter is ongoing, there have already been presentations, public debates and accounts to be confirmed by the coalition's joint strengths, as well as by the opposition. This proposal will not only cover these issues that you have proposed in the SDS, but I must say, I do not mind that this proposal came from your side. It is right that you care, and we will all have to take care of those who are most at risk in this country. We will have to give these people more attention in the future, and we will actually give them a decent life. It is true, however, that one of the discussers also discussed the fact that, within the coalition, we are not most pleased with the approach to resolving this problem. Indeed, I have to confirm this, and we are not satisfied with how it came to be, but the approach is the same as it is, but it is assessed on our part as being a little incorrect, and it is still running, and we will come together with the common strength to adopt the amendment of this law. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as most of us have already identified or are now joining this conclusion, clearly states that Slovenia is a social state. Of course, the details are defined in the law, the protective allowance and monetary social assistance are in extreme economic circumstances to help the country to the one who is simply not able to survive with its income at that time; this is said to be State aid for the one who is in poor social condition. This is a social transfer and this social transfer, a protective supplement, has in some ways been eliminated in the past from the pension fund and is in the second item of the state budget. The security allowance has been gone for several years now, as I mentioned. However, I must also point out that the Constitutional Court has also found that the right to private property and inheritance for heirs does not give rise to the right to inherit the property of the prodigal without being prepared to participate in any obligation, which in a number of cases is this obligation of the children to the parents and vice versa. Thus, if we want to inherit, it is also right to help our parents.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Get Master Andrej Shircelj and Mr. Jože Tanko ready. Here you go, Mrs. Susanna Beautiful Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, Members, guests present here in our hall and those watching television screens are warmly greeted! My colleague Jurš said that this is an attractive and interesting topic, I agree; it is attractive, interesting, and especially extremely important for a large part of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I regret only the fact that more than obviously this topic does not seem so attractive and interesting and important to the ministers themselves, who are not here today. With all due respect to the secretary of state, I know she can be replaced, but whatever. Given that she has proposed and placed herself under public scrutiny, I will say, quite a similar law, of course, that she would be present here today. But there may be other circumstances that have kept her somewhere else than to come to the National Assembly. My colleagues from Desus, I don't know, but you're too fond of forgetting that you're always in the coalition and that you're always the one helping to co-create legislation. You also created this legislation, proposed by Minister Svetlik under the rule of Borut Pahor. That, too. And you supported it. I find all of your discussions very interesting, and I'm going to say, a lot of tactics. And if I recall just a little bit of the interpretation that we discussed against Minister Anjo Kopač Dark in June in this National Assembly, and why you voted in favour of the interpretation. What were the reasons? Not substantively, but more than obviously anyone else. Sometimes it's better to be a little quiet. As regards the content of what we propose, we propose to abolish the total return of the protective allowance and other social transfers and to abolish the restriction on the availability of real estate. This is the second time in this mandate that we have proposed this reference to the National Assembly. Why? Because we think it's really important. I do appreciate that you have overlooked this in the SD, or that the current Minister has overlooked this and that you have taken the initiative to change this truly non-life law. The public hearing is closed. But you know, I can't get past this, as it was said, that you might have taken a slightly incorrect approach. I would very much agree. And all that pierra comes: SD shuts down! Yes, you have forgotten that the SD has also introduced and proposed this, or your minister. Then again as Secretary of State. You yourself mentioned that people are being misled by the public, that people are being threatened with this, property records – yes, you are also deceiving them! Tell you the truth: we have proposed this, found that this is a complete nonsense, and now we are correcting it. Then that's the way to do a piranha show. Take a look at your announcement when you came out with this proposal, which was given for public consideration: SD cancels it. Yeah, that's great, but you brought it in! I know, yeah, people forget very quickly. In general, laws adopted in July 2010 have entered into force 1. 1. 2012. In February 2012, another government appeared. Then people, yeah, now that's true, so you did it. But I'm sorry. Our proposal is here another time. More than you're all saying is that it's going in the right direction, it's okay. But why didn't you support him the first time we treated him? Now you're going back to some of your improvements. But no! Look, what we're proposing is better, because we're completely shutting down the return. And you have some additional demands again. Look, this is about people who are already on the verge of some poverty. You know very well what this information is, you know very well how many people have given up a protective supplement. You know what it means to have a Slovak and a Slovenian property! How much they spent their lives working for her and what it meant to them in such a personal way. And they'd rather give up a protective supplement than write somewhere, there'd be some kind of sign here, and they wouldn't be able to give it to their offspring. Because it's the only thing they're proud of, at least something they can do to make it easier for them. I really can't understand why we don't build on this law. I didn't even understand it when we suggested it. But sometimes, if it stimulates a wave, then you're going in a slightly better direction, I always welcome that because you don't accept any more than obviously opposition proposals. But, anyway, we want to solve things, so it's actually going to be like it didn't exist. Because this marriage of yours was really a disaster and really wrong for people back then. As far as trust is concerned, perhaps only this is the end of the OECD's research on government trust. However, the social state we have in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia concerns all of us. And it's very important to people, because they can be touched more personally than anything else. If we look at the trust of this government – according to OECD surveys, which is on average at 42%, and in the Republic of Slovenia, the average, followed, in 2014/2015, is about 18, 19%. Yes, Your Honor, this is truly worrying! But if we look at that period that you don't like to think about it that much, 2007/2008, that was about 48%, even above the OECD average at the time. These numbers are probably not negligible and say a lot of things, but, really, that's how you like to talk about the social state, the proposals, the really good proposals to improve people's situation, but don't support them. I just can't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Franz Jurša, please. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u118	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. When a person thinks about how individual Members and Members are discussing and when he thinks about how individuals are accusing the parties, when they accuse those parties with whom they have also cooperated under certain conditions, and when they think that they have actually been co-creator of this policy – it is true that we have been co-creator of certain policies. I confess and apologize before the entire Slovenian public that some of us have succeeded in some things of consciousness, because between the lines of certain things were so written that you simply and simply could not understand them. Now I really think that we, along with the SDS in the then government, actually adopted the ZUJF, with which we were correcting how many, 43 or 45 laws, and that was one big mix, and we couldn't really figure out what was written in there. I admit that without this law, at that moment, it would not be possible to successfully implement and overcome this crisis that we were in at the time. But these constant reports, however, assess other parliamentary groups or political parties, that they were the main actors and the main culprits, and that is not at all correct and fair. Therefore, as a procedural proposal, the Vice-President suggests that when discussing this, individuals should also be alerted and that they should focus on their own proposals and their own conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot influence what is being discussed. Of course, it was a slight abuse, I'd say. Mr. Logar, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u120	Good. Thank you, Chairman. I would like you to point out, as Chairman-in-Office of the Parliamentary Group, that he has been a Member for a long time and that, by saying this, after he has already extended the Public Finance Balance Act five times in every government where he has sat, he still does not know what it says in this law, that before the decision in the National Assembly, because this is unworthy of the electorate and of all of us Members who know the legislation we are voting on, this is an insult. I also ask that you explain to him this dictatorship in the law that was upheld by State Secretary Anja Kopač Dark in connection with the seizure of property in the debate, because it states in that article that "the action of the prisoner's property is limited to two-thirds of the funds received" in order to explain this sentence to him because it is very simple. For all the protection allowance or aid granted to him, the pro rata must compensate for two thirds of that aid. I suggest that you explain this sentence to the MP, the leader of the coalition member of the group, so that he knows what he voted on in 2010 and that he will know what we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. That wasn't procedural either. Mr. Pojibich, the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Of course, I have to stop by here because of this discussion that we have now heard on the other side of Desus. It is essential and crucial for the Slovenian public to know: Mr Svetlik was of the species or quotas of Desus. Mrs Kopač was a secretary of state and she was from SD and together were writers of this rotten law, which today harasses those people who live on the brink of poverty. It is only with this proposal that we propose for the second time that this mess that was made at the time, and these people who made it with this law, that we turn it into the benefit of those who live on the threshold of poverty. It is right for the Slovenian public to find out who was the creator of this mess.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Uroš Prikl. Here you go. Do you want a procedural or a replica? Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. It'll be procedural, of course. I would really like to, but you warned my head of the Jursho Group that he had abused. I will ask, just as he thinks, to warn the debaters to focus on the content of the debate, but not to be told about histogram here; histogram, who has ever been in the government and who is responsible for what. In this place, I would like to listen to this debate, because we don't have that much time, and if there is a need, I will also call back in those few seconds, or else I'll tell you what. And I'm going to add something here now, maybe there'll be some abuse in this paragraph, and I believe I've explained my procedural proposal. Yeah. I, too, regret that Desus has supported bad solutions in the past, which today is an amendment to the government’s law, which will come to the National Assembly in the coming month or at the latest in December, is a correction to past mistakes. Thank God it's coming to this and people don't have to be afraid in the future that they'll be with what and not their heirs.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. This too was an abuse, because of course I cannot tell people what to discuss. However, people or Members of Parliament have debated this within many in the past. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will try to talk in my contribution about the very law that we are proposing and in fact to invite Desus and the Social Democrats to actually support this proposal. I will also say why our proposal is better than what the Ministry of Labour is preparing. I'm actually going to talk about content. The first thing that we can and can all admit is that the current solution in this area is not social. The first thing is not the social and social state, which is enshrined in the constitution and which some members of Desus have also warned about, is unfortunately only on paper. The second thing is, this law and this solution that you've proposed in those governments and so on is criminal. I think this injustice is best explained by my colleague Logar, and I will not repeat why the poorest, those who need help, are hit twice, three times. Four times if you want. I think we can agree on that, too. The next issue is, of course, that the Slovenian Democratic Party has already proposed solutions under such a law as it is now and you have not accepted it. And we propose it again. Why are we proposing it? To eliminate the irregularities, the anomalies, the injustices that are taking place today, and to restore to all those who are sealed with property, if not with dignity. In fact, dignity to those people who have to give up some social security income or allowance in order not to impose their property on psychological, sociological aspects of all of this and so forth on individuals. We've talked about this a lot today, too, and I don't want to talk about it again. Certainly, however, these are difficult moments for humans. If you support this solution in this reading, you can also introduce your solutions in the next reading. But now it's just here, a respected coalition, a respected Social Democrats, a respected Desus, there's only a question of whether you're going to do the thing of leaving the anomaly immediately and now, or whether you're going to go political prestige. For the fact that you reject such a solution when voting, and, on the other hand, when you speak, you actually support, accept, know that something is wrong, I think it is only political prestige. Nothing but political prestige. The solution that the Secretary of State was also talking about, which the Ministry of Labour was supposed to propose and should go through different coordinations in the Government and so forth, ladies and gentlemen, you have set the limit of some apartment of 120 000 euros – up, down, as you wish, because of me 80,000, because of me.140,000 – and I will tell you what this number is. [[…]] Remember the debate we had about the Property Tax Act, the valuation, where there is real estate, how much and how valuable. According to Gurs' records, I don't know which other records, and it doesn't matter which number you give. Only if it's a number will she again be unfair to so many and so many people. Again, it will be unfair and again a matter of judgment, of free judgment – as mentioned earlier today – of people at the Ministry, of people at the offices, of people on the Geodetic Board and so on. And in any case, it will be unfair, and in any case it will complicate the whole system, and in any case it will result in disputes over this property and the value of this property. No matter what number you give, there's always gonna be something wrong with it. And then it's going to happen that this property, I'm going to take the current number, which is worth 125,000 today, and that's why the seal will have to be made on it, and in three years, the mayor will decide that he'll make the road there because he'll be past the noise and so on, this property will be worth 85 or 95 thousand. Yeah, now what? Yeah, now what? What are you going to do with these people now? And the seal is up, and the seal will have to be taken down, and the top left and the top right. [[…]] So take the easy solutions! Support the law that actually makes it possible, as if these mistakes you've made weren't making things right for you and making things right. If you're going to go to this evaluation, go ahead, no strings attached. You're just going to get complicated and you're going to be taking solutions in two or three years and you're going to do so many and so many wrongs again. I really suggest that you leave political prestige alone, support this and then vote on solutions that will be simple, fair and give people the dignity to restore their dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mrs Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. When we are discussing social issues, I would expect that, first and foremost, the rights of those who need to receive certain social rights will be read out to those who are sold for the greatest social democrats, both for the SD party and for Desus. You're the one who brags about 30 cents of pension repairs, you're the one who brags about some bits that you force with each valorization. In fact, you are extremely antisocial. I am sorry that we have this coalition and their coalition treaty now virtually for more than two years – the contract was written a little earlier if I am not mistaken. At that time, almost nothing has been done since what is said in the Social Treaty. We have already proposed – I think that April or May last year was the first debate in the National Assembly of this same law with a similar solution, and also then, a year and a half ago, the position of the Government and the government coalition was exactly the same. It has been a year and a half since then, and since this government and this minister, who Skoberne says is the best in this government, has done nothing, we have again proposed a law to remedy this weakness. We would not do that if you had acted differently in your current mandate. But you are a factory of injustice, of injustice, and when a judgment comes or anything, the responsible person withdraws and is no longer guilty, he says. If you look at Article 2 of the Constitution, it says that Slovenia is a social and legal state. Therefore, the State must fulfil the criteria for the social state and the rule of law in its mission. But on the one hand, we have the Social Security Benefits Act, where officials without error book every mortgage, every seal on every monthly allowance received by a person, and on the other hand we have the same country that is unable to process any criminal proceedings against those who have caused the biggest crime in this country. No procedure at all! It was a bank hole, property transformations, property thefts, embezzlement, and so on. This government or this policy has been led by this coalition for two and a half years or more. I don't think you can rely on anything in this area. You didn't and you won't. Also, what you are proposing is a lower limit on the value of property, only that a few hundred more officials, bureaucrats who will deal with these records and translate papers will have to be employed. It's nothing else. This is a call for new employment for certain institutions in this country that will deal with recalculation, comparison and so on. This law is not just for another reason. This filling only affects those who have some small assets. Those who live in rental apartments don't get hit by that kind of filling. And you know exactly where those people who have some small property live, you know exactly – in the countryside. Small farmers, those who were unable to work; those who maintained the green belt at the borders, north or south, no matter where; those who maintained the cultural landscape; those who had paid nothing in their lives already took their state pension. This is the achievement of this government or the minister who was on that team that did this, and that's all you've done for these people. It's absolutely nothing else. And you work exclusively against a certain category of weak. Not against all, against certain categories of weak and against those who live in the countryside and have small holdings. Because of the circumstances that some policy has led to, their children are forced to move on and on. There's no way for me to overlook or not be able to arrange certain things, these are the facts I've been talking about. However, that the transfer is sufficient is also a statement by Mr Jurša. Jurša said that if I had been proposed when the second government of Janša, this law, they would have supported it. What changed at that time? Whether I am a coalition partner or an opposition member or an opposition party, it doesn't matter who proposes such a solution. Jursha said everything with that sentence. Everything. Then we would support it if we proposed, now that we are proposing a solution that we are not then, and it will not support it. And he's waiting for better times. What happens in this coalition, when you answer to the future in each of our proposals, to some comprehensive studies and so on, as the government also says in this opinion, is pure nonsense. You are not even able to prepare some solutions to a law if the coalition or opposition does not propose it. It's a motive for you, you wait three months, five months, a year, two years and a half for something to happen, we suggest something, and then you come up with an answer to completely edit it and study it. What kind of system? What kind of policy is that? Then government representatives come here and teach us what is social, what is third and what is fifth. They have no idea what social is! If we had a concept and a sense of people's problems, we wouldn't even be interested in it because it's humiliating with these flossules and passwords that come in here. What we are listening to today and in some other cases in dealing with these social laws is humiliating. This authority deals solely with the protection of the privileges of those who have been granted, and defends all that they have taken away from small people who have more or less dead property. If it were so good on small farms on the southern border, people would live there and not be blackmailed. So in addition to hanging such burdens on them, you took away their school, you took away all the other gains, including the electronic revolutions that are happening these days. In short, I propose that the law be released into second treatment, that there be a government, if it has any solutions to come up with solutions to come up with an amendment to correct this law, and then we will continue to solve other problems. To refer only to some slogans, only to some stories – respectable, time has passed, people suffer. Not all injustices are just with, I'll tell you, but same-sexs with the likes and the asymmetrics and the like. Here are the main injustices. It's all so much more marginal and probably even superstandard in some part of it. But there you are top, you find top solutions for the price of referendums and all sorts of stories. There the cost is not important; one or two referendums on the Family Code may have cost half of these injustices, which you persistently reject. Now what you have means nothing more than a new injustice that will happen again, and especially a foundation for some 200 new government officials. And when you come up with another social solution, 200 new state officials. It's a concept. That's why there were 3,000 jobs or even more. Therefore, there were €90 million additional salary burdens in this mandate. But here we are dealing with whether someone will get, the one who really needs, 100 or 200 Euros of protection allowance, without anyone sitting on any property. Milan Kučan gets two pensions, the superstandard both, but there's no problem with the coalition to sit on any assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u129	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mrs Janja Slug and then to come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! It is funny when we discuss this law in the National Assembly on the law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this way. That the law is advocated by those who are most often referred to as ugly neoliberals in this House, and that those who consider themselves to be the most sensitive in this House are even addressed by socialists and what I know with what else. We have received in relation to the law that you will also propose – and here is a double problem. The first problem is that the law is filed by a minister who does not have majority support in the National Assembly and who has lost all credibility for me, so the question is at all the meaning of the debate on the law tabled by a minister who does not have any support in his coalition. Yesterday, it was confirmed that this minister was also stealing children or that she was doing nothing to prevent the children from being stolen from her parents. No statements. No problem. The second problem is that this law is also referred to by unions as inappropriate or as having to be corrected. I don't know where they got that 120 grand. Some suggest that we go instead of this number 120 000 in that they have an extra property in addition to the property they live in. But that's the problem. People are refusing to receive any social assistance – we have cited three cases here, which we propose not to impose confiscation on received financial social assistance, for a security allowance and for the exemption of social security payments. That's the problem. Our people, the Slovenians have to pay this money back. Tell me how many Muslims, migrants coming back, radical Islamists will return. How much will they pay back when more than 2,000 euros are spent a month for one of them? How many people are gonna pay you back? Maybe someone knows? Will they be given a seal on any property that they may then receive, or will they get paid, once possible, when they may be employed? How are they gonna get that money back? No, it is not a problem to spend €123 million for Muslims coming from a region of radical Islam, it is not a problem for Algerians, for Moroccans, for those who flee not from war, but for economic reasons, but it is a problem for Slovenians and Slovenians. Such a stepfather's attitude towards his own Slovenian people, which the Slovenian Left has, I don't know if I've seen anything else. Probably because you swear more on economic classes than on national membership, because national ownership is the one that bothers you, because you are doing everything you can to ensure that those who worked here who paid here, who are Slovenians, have some of it — it is necessary for them to take it. But we will welcome 50, 100, 150 thousand new Arab citizens whom I import in order to elect them in the next elections. I hope people miss it. We're putting this in next year. The government always comes only after we file, with some adjustments. With the next law, which we will address at the next point, we will see that the same is done with the dual school system. Although we have prepared solutions, nothing has happened in two years, except that three pilot projects are now about to begin to take place, and in 2020 this is only to be introduced gradually. But when you talk to some coalition MPs, this government will not have this option, or at least the SMC Minister will not have this option. Support this law of ours, which is why we have put it into first treatment and not secondly to eliminate social injustices. Just one more thing. You talked a lot about ZUJF. No pensioner who had a net pension of less than €622 was taken from the euro. Not even the euro. Here you can see which people are taken from this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u131	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Then prepare a representative of the Government and the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Today I have listened very carefully to this debate, and I can say that it is actually very difficult to add something new. Since all the arguments have been somehow exposed, those for and those against; it is said that the social risk of the elderly will be addressed to allow for a better material position of recipients of monetary social assistance, of course I can agree with all of this. We have also heard about whether such a measure is proportionate or not. We have heard that this has also been decided by the Constitutional Court. We have also heard something about responsible citizenship, in particular that we must be aware of the fact that we are part of one community and that both rights and duties are coming with this community. I can say what I have already said, in fact, last April, when we have considered this identical proposal that wherever some criteria are laid down, wherever we talk about certain social transfers, for which, of course, some criteria must be set, these criteria can never and can never be purely fair for all. It always belongs to someone else and it doesn't belong to anyone else, and here in the social transfers where we talk about the weakest people, these recipients are always in an unequal position. We've heard that before today. Even in an unequal situation, there are those who own a certain property and those who do not, and so on. Last year, too, when this proposal was discussed, we made certain arguments why it might not seem best for us and why we rejected it last year, and I note that nothing has changed in this regard until today. However, if I make further progress for a moment, it is possible that this upper value of real estate, which is an integral part of the new bill, is the 120 000 euro. I have some concerns about this number myself. It will be very difficult to agree whether this number is too low or too high. However, above all, I would like to point out that I agree with those who said today that the ministry is somewhat behind this proposal. I am very sorry that, in essence, we discussed this proposal in April 2015 and today, October 2016, we are discussing an identical proposal because we do not yet have another proposal. I truly regret this because I feel that things could somehow go faster. Finally, let me just say that, after this debate today, that our goal, all of us, is the same; and this is that we allow individuals who are entitled to a protective allowance and who are entitled to financial social assistance to receive it, and that they do not then deal with the question of how, after their death, how the heirs will pay it or not pay it, to determine in fact how they will be able to receive a protective allowance, especially where it is for those who are most socially affected that we will somehow make this social security possible for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u133	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which you will receive the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Martina Vuk, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not know how to respond to all these debates that have taken place today, and to all the words that have been said, it was more about accounting for ad persons or some inter-party accounting than for some quality substantive debate. Therefore, given its competences, given the area covered by our ministry, and given that I cannot personally account for not responding to some very inappropriate allegations, I think that the position of the Government has been received in writing. [[…]] Initially, it was presented, and I also responded to some of the comments. I strongly hope that even when a government proposal for amendments to the Social Security Benefits Act is tabled, there will also be such a broad talk about the social state, how this area needs to be supported, what the social state means, what needs to be addressed and what priorities need to be. Even when we talk about other laws, we will be able to set a ladder, a priority scale that will be discussed and that we will focus on first. However, let me just say that when we talk about reducing the number of recipients and recipients of the protective allowance, you all stressed that people were not afraid to apply for this benefit. All of you have said in a row that people fear, do not want, and that because they do not want anyone to reach out for their property, they do not want to apply for this protective supplement at all. But then you accused me of counting people who intimidated me. Last year, I said that it was sad that people were afraid if they could barely survive, but that they were afraid that, because after death, someone would pay for one part of those funds they received, from what they would leave, if they left something behind, that they would be afraid to ask for this protective supplement, that it was sad and that we had to do everything to relieve them of this fear and that we would tell them clearly and directly what it meant for their time of life, when they needed it for themselves, that no one would touch their property. When we speak of this ultimate righteousness, what will you say to those who have nothing? What is right for this person or this family?Oh, my God! We talk so hard in general and so flatly and then you demand some very precise answers. As I have said, when the Government has tabled this amendment to the Social Security Benefits Act, I expect the same worrying and equally supportive debate and I am counting on your support for this law as well as when we are discussing how to secure the necessary financial resources, so that this law can actually be implemented. Because if we find that fear is the one that prevents 10, 13, I don't know how many thousands of people to apply for a security supplement, then it means that when that fear falls away, that it will still have to be provided with additional resources to be paid for that right. That's when I'm really counting on all the support of this national council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u135	The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since I do not have much time left to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, with this proposal for a law that we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure, we want to ensure that those people living below the poverty threshold are restored to dignity and that their living conditions would be better and that even in the future, if they live with such small incomes as those there, 200, 300, 400 euros, they could afford or apply for a protective allowance. This is a fundamental and key message of this law. Secondly, I simply have to say that I am also very disappointed that we have not convinced the coalition's parliamentary groups to support this proposal of law. As it has been said many times today that it is better to save certain parties more specifically and more simply; that the coalition groups have decided to vote against this law, purely out of prestige, because we have put it into the Slovenian Democratic Party, even though, as we now see, the Government is imposing its law and most of the solutions we have in this law, the law proposed by most of them also has them. It means that this marriage could easily be part of another reading with certain amendments and could be adopted in a very short time. This would quickly solve the problem that we are talking about today and help those who do not have this dignity at this time, and this is because they have given up the protective supplement and what they have left without a protective supplement does not virtually allow them to survive with dignity and normality. That's that absurd thing, and that's what I think no one in this national council should miss. Once again, I ask you, honourable Members, to think carefully and accept our law, which we have proposed, as well-intentioned. In fact, it is only about helping people who are truly the most vulnerable. I see no reason, reasoned, that this law could not go into procedure or other reading. I really don't see any real reason. It is very sad that you do not listen and that it seems to me that I am here in Parliament and all my colleagues and colleagues, who have been here for three or four hours today, have tried to explain everything and to answer all the coalition's questions that we have not convinced you. Although we are convinced that for those who are looking at us today and are burdened with this problem, this issue is very important and they expect us to take a step towards them as soon as possible and immediately. We'd do it with this law. But with the government's input, not only that things are half-saved, but the question when we are talking about the limit that my colleague Andrej Shircelj was talking about today, I think you've thought a little bit about the coalition MPs and Members. Because you know when you're setting numbers, what kind of problems occur only after how and what real estate is rated and so on and so forth. We saw a thousand and one problem when this property tax law was passed and so on, and we could have witnessed what injustices could result if the law was adopted as proposed by the Government. However, it is also true that I must say to the end that I am very pleased that at least something has happened, at least that we have put this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the third time, twice in this mandate, for the third time that, if anything, we have convinced or even partially forced the Ministry and this coalition to come now with a solution that is worse than ours, but it is a small solution. Thank God we are persistent enough in the Slovenian Democratic Party! I think that's how people started to recognize us, our electorates and voters. They know we're dealing with people, that we're not about our own prestige, and that we're not just about privileged people. But it's not about privilege at all, it's about those who need help. In fact, this should be the essence of our work here in the National Assembly. There's no problem for the privileged, they find themselves on a cubicle, living as gods. These people on the social side are in constant trouble. To add this, this government coalition and this government have done nothing but burden them with new taxes and new burdens. He really has to say that I am personally very sad to be sitting in a Parliament where coalition parties and those who should be held accountable do not understand the essence of things. If you don't vote that this law will go to another reading, that's exactly what it is. So you didn't understand the point and you didn't want to work for people, but you do well to help those who have everything. Those who can't survive don't even know how to end the month, and for those you seem to care very little. Such coalitions certainly did not represent our citizens and citizens, and even less so, we have here the largest coalition party that has advertised very little today, which has talked about morality, ethics and so on, and how it will help to reduce differences and I do not know all that I will not start to explain these matters, but today has spent just a few minutes on such important issues as the issue that we are talking about today and which law we have also put into Parliamentary Procedure by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Once again, please do not be like this, so that because of some prestige, who has enacted a law, they may vote against this law. The law is good, the law solves the key problems of those who need solutions. Please, I will see in today's vote how social you are, how solidarity you are, what heart you have and what kind of people you are. By pressing the button today you will answer this fundamental and important question of Slovenian people and Slovenian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u137	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Nobody. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on call and professional education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Tomaž Lisc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u138	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! I am sorry, however, that there are no representatives of the Ministry among us so that we can respond to the indications that we will present today. The fact is that we have been talking in Slovenia for a long time about the link between trade and the economy with education. That is why today again before you or us is the novel of the Law on Vocational and Professional Education, because we want to combine these key moments and structures for Slovenian development. Now it is a fact that this government also talks a lot about the importance of the education system and its connection to the economy and trade. When we proposed a rather similar law in 2014, the government's opinion was as follows: it is not good, we will prepare a better one. When we drafted the law in June 2015, which we changed to about 30% for talks with craftsmen, trade unions, economists and so on, not least on the proposal of individual initiatives by the Ministry, the government's response was once again the same: the law is not good, we will prepare our own. And today is October 2016, 16 months after the government last said how it would prepare its marriage, and there is nothing yet. Just here and there a piranha meeting of a minister or her coworkers with representatives of trade unions, craftsmen and businessmen, but nothing is done. In short, the typical law and the typical attitude of the government towards this legislation. A lot of words, nice photographic memories, but in practice nothing happens. That is why we have re- tabled a law in the SDS Group, which we have changed to about 10% in the 2014 law. In short, we changed almost half the law because we wanted to be very exact, systematic and we wanted to go against both sides of the tradesmen and economists, we also listened to the warnings of trade unions, and not least we also want to cooperate with the ministries affected by this law. But Ministry of Education, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Labour, Family – nothing. What a pear smile. There are hugely important and positive components that this law would bring and somehow follow trends that also follow comparable European countries – Germany, Austria. On how young people would be employed at this time when they were working, on how this time would be taken into account during working hours, on how they would be insured, and on the last draft of the law we added some other important components: the role of individual chambers in this law, the role of individual ministries. In addition to the very explicit determination of who gives the prize to the apprentices, what this reward will be, we have decided that it is also necessary to elaborate more closely on what the reward should be for the mentors. Because if we want good apprentices, we have to have good mentors. Mentors, they're almost gone on the map of educational institutions, we don't have apprentices anyway, and instead of following the trend that we raise vocational and professional education to a higher level, we'll soon have no more mentors, and this system will be completely extinct. We want the law to be introduced after the budget has been adopted and gradually introduced by 2020. Why did we choose to make a marriage in these days? New school year, and the ministry didn't do anything in the last year. Last but not least, why did we decide? As the President of the Government at the Cele trade fair widely explained how we need successful craftsmen, successful economists and behind as some support for a strong education system in this area. But we are confident in the SDS Group that it would be another year and a repeat attempt by the SDS Group to move something in this area. Unfortunately for us, sire, at this time, more than once, while almost 90% of Slovenian companies want a system of apprenticeship in Slovenia after the last survey, we have on the other hand empty benches which are for those who should not only be involved in this law but, above all, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u139	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the parliamentary groups [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mr. Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you, President. This Parliament is divided about by a left sitting there, here is a right sitting, in the middle of those who are once a little there, a little bit there; in short, let the minestra. What is essential, however, is that under you is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These chairs are empty. These chairs are empty. I do not recall that any time in this mandate, when we have dealt with the law of the Government or any parliamentary group, these chairs would be empty. I am interested in the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards this law. If you look at the agenda for Thursday, it clearly says, on behalf of the proposaler first Tomaž Lisec, presentation of the government's opinion, 5 minutes. Stop the session, get the Minister of Education or any of her secretaries – now I don't know if the Minister is still receiving the imaginable thousands of dollars for permanent readiness, if she is prepared, she must be constantly ready to come here, if necessary – and to ensure her presence and the position of the Government. This position has been announced and the Minister must come, if not her, and one of her two secretaries and present her position. In the event that any Member, as we were at the last meetings, I think that, sometime in May, April, Mr Krivec missed the oral question and came as soon as the question was put to the Minister for the Environment was asked, and you did not leave him or Mr Hainz did not leave him to ask the same Minister because he was late and should not discuss it – I expect you to stop the debate at this point and that you will provide someone from the government side, because this is the task of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to come here and say the position. Never before in this term has it happened that I would not be competent from the Ministry to say what he thinks about this law. How can Members then discuss this? We've got a position, but I'd like to hear what the minister or her secretary of state has to say. Such an ignorant attitude towards this House as the government is doing [[sign for the end of the debate]] Mira Cerar, or in this case a minister coming from your party, Mr President, coming from a SMC party, from its quota, now whether he is a member or not, I don't know, I haven't seen him in this Parliament yet. Make sure someone from the government comes in to say the words, and then we can move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u141	Procedural issues are dealt with on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. I, as chairman, have to see if the necessary conditions for this are met. The essential condition for this is that the proposer is here, plus that we are now at the moment [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, please, please, please. Please! Right now, we're at the point of view. You received the government's position at 19. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day As far as this is concerned, I have been informed that the Government will join us in the debate and that it will express its position. Because you do not have a procedural basis for demanding a stay under the Rules of Procedure, I say that we can continue the debate at this point. However, something has happened, and that is the fact that today, according to the timeline, we have saved for 3 hours, so I understand that the ministry was unable to appear on time in the National Assembly. Otherwise, it's not disrespect. The one who, on the order of the day — and was announced — did not, but did not get the word. This rule is totally independent of everything, even if any representative of any committee is not or any such thing, this is simply not taken into account. But if it were not, I would consider it to be a failure to respect the National Assembly, and if that were to happen by the time we finish our positions, it would not be fixed, but I will be ready to stop. Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much, President. I regret that you cannot condemn the Government's decision not to participate in such an important debate, a debate that puts pressure on the situation in Slovenian vocational education in the future. See, Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure states in the first indent: "The President of the Government and ministers represent the Government in the National Assembly." I wonder where the Prime Minister or ministers is? Next, in the position of the Government, which is attached: "On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, the Government has determined that Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, Dr. Andrej Barle Lakot and Elvira Šushmelj, Director-General, will participate as its representatives at the meetings of the National Assembly." Where are they? Well, we have achieved with our procedural, that the Government is also present and that it will be able to present its position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u143	You've achieved so much that it's procedurally possible to do this part, but I said it's not an emergency. I know I would if we were really at the point of the debate, but we are at the point of presenting positions. Both for the introductory explanation of the opinion [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Now is anyone making a fool of me? [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural? Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u144	Presidents, I always treat you this way as the first of the same; and that is also true, you are the President of the National Assembly. When colleague Anže Logar made his procedural proposal, you literally jumped into his word in the middle of his explanation. You keep reminding us in this National Assembly of the order, the silence, the fact that we do not chat and what I always give you very well, but I think that you, too, as the first of the same must stick to it. I think it's bad, even to keep order in this national council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u145	I'm taking note of your procedural proposal. I will stick to it at least as much as all the chairmen of the individual bodies of this national assembly. At least that much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž God.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u146	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! First of all, thank you very much for your words and please accept your sincere apology at the late beginning of this point. We believe that we will explain our position, but our absence at the beginning of this point, unfortunately, was no different than a somewhat traffic reservation. Please accept your sincere apology for this subject. Thank you very much. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education, which has been tabled by the Group of Members or the Group of Members, addresses, in addition to some other issues, the key and fundamental issue of apprenticeship. The fundamental principle of regulating and implementing vocational and professional education in Slovenia is the social partnership. The system regime for this part of the education system is based on the principle that the interests of employers and employees and ministries should be coordinated in professional and professional education with a view to providing general and professional knowledge and competences that enable an individual to be properly integrated into the labour market and, in particular, a wider range of individuals' lives. The principle of social partnership is taken into account in the planning, programming and implementation of vocational and professional education. In the social partnership dialogue, employers, together with the other partners, must identify the necessary professional skills, competences necessary to carry out a particular profession or occupation. This is not only about defining fully specific skills and skills, but also about the broad understanding of abilities that include generic knowledge, professional specific skills and skills, as well as the development of certain personality traits and competences. In this context, we think or take into account mainly teamwork, relations with colleagues, customers, conflict and complex situations, and so on. On the basis of the social partnership, various forms of participation of schools and companies called dual education have already been developed in the implementation of vocational education. In Slovenia different forms of dual education are thus developed mainly in the context of the school form of individual student contracts. The law provides that vocational education must be carried out by the school with the company or with the employers and that vocational education programmes must be provided for at least 24 weeks of practical training in the employer. A student who is practically educated in the employer may have an individual learning contract, with which practical education may also be extended. These forms of vocational education are also known by other European countries, with school forms of vocational education predominantly taking place in Scandinavian countries. In the form of vocational education already mentioned, both employers' associations and individual companies have taken the initiative to reintroduce the apprenticeship system into the education system. In particular, this initiative is strong and is present in Germany and some other countries that have concluded the so-called Alliance or Alliance for apprenticeships, and the initiative has been adopted or supported by the Council of Europe in 2013 as a special statement by the European Alliance for Training. In order to achieve this commitment, professional coordination has been established, and this has also been followed in the Republic of Slovenia, and in this way coordination has been established in which representatives of all stakeholders are represented. A proposal for an apprenticeship commitment in the Republic of Slovenia, called a working group to prepare a proposal for a law on apprenticeship and a working group to prepare new starting points for the preparation of vocational and vocational education programmes, has been prepared so far. In this context, Slovenia has also been involved in a project on the thematic review of apprenticeship in Slovenia, which helps to identify key issues of apprenticeship in this part. The fact is that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has already drawn up a proposal, sent it to public hearing from 5 July to 19 August and on the basis of this 19th. 10., that is, yesterday, in inter-resort coordination, within which we believe that we will reconcile the latest uncoordinated details. From this point of view, we stress that the Government considers that the proposal before us is not suitable for further consideration, because just before inter-resortmental coordination or before further procedures is a law that is prepared in our ministry, which we believe to be a more thorough and in-depth regulation of areas together or in cooperation and in agreement with all key stakeholders. For this reason, we believe that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u147	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Education, colleagues and fellow Members! Today, for the third time in this mandate, we are discussing the amendments and additions to the Act on Vocational and Professional Education, which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure by the SDS Group. We are pleased to share the concern and awareness of the importance of apprenticeship within the system of vocational and vocational education with the proponents. Of course, apprenticeship cannot be a common and miraculous remedy against youth unemployment, but it can play an important role in the closer integration of the education system and the economy and the labour market, in better professional socialisation, in the involvement of apprentices in real working environments and so on. We are reminded of the need for an effective apprenticeship system by international examples of good practices and experiences from foreign countries. One of the most recent studies of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development shows that the labour market in the youth segment has been able to stabilise completely in recent years countries that allow their young people to connect education with work. This same organisation also encourages Member States to include in their education an effective apprenticeship system based on the integration of education with practical education in businesses. Today, we reiterate that in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we are fully aware of the need for such reinforcements of vocational and professional education, which would allow for a faster and better response to the needs of the labour market and, in meeting certain conditions, reintroduce the apprenticeship system. Therefore, we must initially reject the proposed claim or the thesis that we have been listening to representatives of the current government for two years after regulating this segment, but the government has not done anything so far. It just doesn't hold. The result of all the activities so far and in particular the consensus of key actors to regulate the field of apprenticeship by special law is a proposal for a new law on apprenticeship, which has already landed in the stage of public hearing and can soon be expected in the parliamentary procedure. The fear of proposing that the government will at the last minute draft a law that will be bad, and will sell it for systemic, is superfluous. We will not sell anything, we just want the law to be real enough and will be aligned with the social partners at key points so that it can actually live in practice. We must not repeat the error during the period when this law actually began to work — that is, from 1996 to 2006 — when the system of apprenticeship was introduced and abolished because it did not produce the desired effects. The key point of the difference is that the applicants first propose to amend the law and then seek a broad social consensus for the implementation of the apprenticeship system. First of all, we want consensus, as this is a condition for the development of the apprenticeship model and the adoption of appropriate legal solutions. As we say, we're in the middle of this right now. To the obvious that the draft law on apprenticeship is bad and that no one supports it, we answer that at the same time we are satisfied with it, all of us and no one. It is normal for the social partners to have concerns, since everyone is looking at the proposal from their own perspective. It is and must be a compromise, and we also expect further coordination of positions in our Group. We also reiterate the following. The economy is important for the successful implementation of the apprenticeship system. Practicing can exist if there are jobs. It is therefore reasonable and necessary to introduce pilot apprenticeship models first and gradually where the real interests of individual employers exist. The apprenticeship model must be financially acceptable to employers and sustainable for the state budget. Therefore, only a flat-rate assessment of the applicants that it is difficult to predict the exact consequences for the state budget with regard to the gradual introduction of the law cannot be accepted. We will not support the proposal for a law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. However, we look forward to today's and all future debates on the introduction of such a system of apprenticeships that will have the socially desired effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u149	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, President! Mr. Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Thirdly, we have already tabled a proposal similar to, not always, the same law that would reintroduce the dual school system. We also committed ourselves to this in 2014 to citizens and citizens in the early parliamentary elections, and the government coalition also committed itself to this. Finally, Mira Cerar was also a party when she promised to introduce apprenticeship. After more than half the term of office, we are nowhere or we have a proposal for their law, which has been under public scrutiny, and most of all we will or most of what you will do in this mandate, is to carry out two, three, maybe four pilot projects, and then the story will be finished and not this government, not the dual school system. It was heard that everything depended on the condition of the economy. Now I really don't know if I'm following all the meetings of this National Assembly or whether I'm also a member of another National Assembly. Whenever we talk about the economy, whenever we listen to the Minister of Economy, the former Minister, the current Minister of Finance, everything is fine again. The economy is booming, unemployment is falling, there are no more social problems, people are spending it all over again; in short, everything is back to being like the fairy tale. This is said to be the reason why it is necessary to wait for the economic condition to be the same as it has to be, for then apprenticeship to be introduced, and then no longer endure. Why if everything's okay? If the economic condition is as it should be, then apprenticeship could be introduced; but not it. That we need new jobs. How does it need new jobs if the government of Mira Cerar boasts that it has reduced unemployment by 23,000? This is said to be jobs and that the economy has jobs that could also be offered for the implementation of the apprenticeship system. At the same time, it is not said that of these 23,000, 12,000 found work in Austria, 3,000 were employed in public administration, and 8,000 went abroad. How does social welfare improve if the budget allocated to the Ministry of Social Affairs is raised by €52 million, not on items that would create jobs, but on items that put out fires. We're talking about social problems. In short, we currently have a double picture in this situation, and this double picture does not show on one side of the coalition, on the other side of the opposition, but is depicted by the government of Mir Cerar, saying that the economy is booming, but at the same time that we cannot introduce apprenticeship because there are not enough jobs; that there are no more social problems, at the same time we are giving 52 million euros more for social services, especially on transfers. And that unemployment is down, and at the same time we see that 21,000 are gone, and 3,000 are in the public sector. A double image created by the Government itself, not a coalition on one side and the opposition on the other. In this mandate, you have only confirmed the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party twice in these two years. Once – yes, Mrs Murgel, if this is too much, then you will have the opportunity to confirm some other laws perhaps elsewhere. In short, you confirmed it for the first time when we proposed cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on European Union matters, and the second was the law on the abolition of volunteer traineeships. That was the first time you confirmed it in the first reading, but in the second reading you voted against it. There can be only two explanations: because of political prestige or because within three months you were unable to prepare amendments that would correct our proposal accordingly in order to be good for you. Today is both apprenticeship and internship, still a problem. In two years, when we talk about it, you have done nothing in these areas. But we will also discuss this with the interpretation that was made on the basis of your coalition contract, only on the basis of a coalition contract, from point to point what you promised 2014 and what the situation is today. The law before you is different from the law before you, and above all we have drawn closer to the demands and initiatives of the economists. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we work well with the Chambers, both Economic and Commercial, and nowhere did I run into deaf ears when we asked them what they thought about the apprenticeship system. How can the apprenticeship system help to increase, say, economic growth, more employment. More than employees, there is more to contribute; the more we link them to the economy in the school system, the more opportunities we create for these people to be able to work. Because if a young person in the school system is already attached to the employer, if he generates 50, 60, 70%, as we suggest, all the time in his educational process, he will also be in the interest of the employer that such a young person who is already used to working processes will be employed by a company that knows what the climate is like in this company. If we have the system that we have today, where young people see work in production, work in companies, especially in July and August – I speak for students who benefit from student work in order to go to work. If they are lucky, of course, they can work in an area for which they are also educated if they do not have this happiness, it is good that they deserve something to do. This is also a benefit for the future, when the government also moves forward, that we will finally begin to formally recognise informal experiences, and such young people have a problem because when they come from school, we know that so much and so much experience is required. If we had a dual school system today, such as Austria has, as Germany has, Switzerland has. The Belgians went to some correction because they were not satisfied with their system because they were flaws. We also discussed these shortcomings with our colleague Lisce, when we attended the young Members' meeting in Brussels last year, we talked to the Belgian Members. They went into some changes to optimize their process. But the proposal before you is similar to the proposal of the countries that are close to us and the countries where it works. We all talk about how we want to be like Germany, like Austria, and when you have a proposal on the table that we also go in the direction of Austria and Germany, then you reject this proposal because you are waiting for the government. Ladies and gentlemen, in our system, the government can make a law, it can be tabled by a parliamentary group, it can be tabled by at least one Member or 5,000 voters with certified signatures. It is not always necessary to wait only for government laws, because sometimes it happens that someone thinks and covers an area that the government does not have on its list as a priority. And the Slovenian Democratic Party's priority list is growth and economic development. How this is done, we have shown 2004 to 2008. But when we really reduced unemployment and it was the lowest in the history of Slovenia, when Slovenia was the second least indebted country in the European Union, when we took only EUR 700 million of credit in four years, and then the governments behind them, Borut Pahor's government, 8 billion in three years, the government of Alenka Bratušek, 8 billion in one year. That's how you rule the country, that's how you do it! We've already shown it, you'll have to. I'm afraid that you won't have, but let's be objective, time for this, because even if the mandate is complete, in two years it will make up for everything that hasn't been done in these two years, and the hand on the heart, except for some analyses, some pilot projects, some meetings, disassemblies, nothing has been done. There's nothing done. If the climate in the European Union were not like this, if the climate in Germany were not as it is, we would still be crying on the spot and stagnation today, which is what is happening under your Government. But this is not what you promised citizens and citizens! The Government's opinion on our law states that at school a minimum of 40% of the entire education programme should be implemented. Our proposal is 30%. So why not confirm our proposal and make an amendment to that article, which sets 30% if the Government proposes 40%? This would then be, say, collective and genuine cooperation. It's not the opposition's job to go to government parties and ask the government what kind of law should we file for you. You have a government for that. That would be contrary to what we promised our constituents and voters. When you have a proposal, it is precisely why it is put into the first reading that it can then go to the committee and improve there and then there can be a discussion about what is needed and what is not. The government also noted that in order to reintroduce apprenticeship, employers' key willingness to achieve better professional socialisation through apprenticeships, a longer period of apprentice involvement in the working environment and thus a greater opportunity to train apprentices in a given working environment. The introduction of apprenticeship is included in the Social Agreement signed in 2015 and is one of the tasks defined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its programme under the Coalition Treaty. Not a word or an argument about you rejecting our marriage! Not one. You also continue to describe what you are doing, what the current processes are like, how the matter is running. I sat with the Minister of Education last summer when we talked about what would happen with the apprenticeship, and I offered to help her. We have an excellent company in the Poljanska Valley, Marmor Hotavlje, an excellent company, we work well together. If I had counted all the hours and days that I had spent in this company both in production and administration, I would probably have had two and a half years and three years of working time because I worked through a student; in the morning in college, at the company Marmor Hotavlje, where I had accumulated rich experience both in production and in preparation for work. This law has been welcomed and is ready, and I also told the Minister that they are helping with this pilot implementation of the projects. No calls, no questions, no nothing! Employers, who are actually willing to help, who are actually ready to implement both the coalition commitments and the commitments we have given to voters and voters in our party, are disappointed. The economy needs this. I didn't hear a craftsman and an entrepreneur against our proposal. Our proposal is here for the third time in this mandate today, as amended by the requirements of crafts and entrepreneurship. By the way, from your previous term, you probably remember a Member who is no longer here, when the Chamber came up with suggestions on how to improve the climate in the economy, and she said that these are their wet dreams and that this will never happen. I hope that this dual school system for coalitions is not just a wet dream for economists, craftsmen and entrepreneurs who need it, but you are only stopping them. The law follows the fundamental principle that as quickly as possible, or to improve the transition of education to work that provides quality and quality employment, not only employment for being a job, but also for someone who has actually studied in a given area to do so. Because if he went to school for this, if he's interested, then he'll enjoy the work he's doing. The law also follows the principle that apprenticeship is a work study and allows integration into the apprenticeship system of different groups; those who have graduated from primary, secondary or higher education. Because one of the sights, I think a year ago, was something grown-up. How are we going to integrate adults into the apprenticeship system? That is also why we have taken care of our proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Unfortunately, however, apprenticeship today loses its meaning, as it has in the past, but it is a characteristic of the development of an individual in the workplace, of the development of the company itself, and of the principle of lifelong learning. It was heard that we were under-specified the financial resources needed to do so. In our assessment of the financial implications of this law for the state budget and other financial resources, we have written approximate indicative figures, which somehow follow our objective of gradually introducing this system by 2020. Here we have written that to prepare apprenticeships for practical training for the generation of 10,000 students we need 20 million euros and for mentors' awards of 200 euros a month. The second part foresees full employment of learning cities, so that the second generation requires EUR 20 million, together with the first generation, then the sum of EUR 30 million. The third year is the sum of €50 million and €70 million in the fourth year, followed by €70 million each year. How long have we spent on migrants? Let's do it again. 123 million euros. We throw EUR 123 million out of the window, paying for possible social and, above all, security unrest. Because now I think it's clear to everyone that we are earmarking EUR 123 million to import terrorists into Europe as well. If you don't believe me, trust intelligence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u151	I mean, this really has nothing to do with this point, so please stop. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u152	And at the same time, Mr President, I cite the case that it is a shame to give you €70 million in additional employment, but it is not a problem to give you €120 million for migrants. [[…]] What's the problem here?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u153	By interpreting the position of the Group of Members and pushing everything you can think of into it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u154	This is the position of the Group of Members. Red thread is the law of apprenticeship, but you know it's necessary to explain it widely, and you don't understand it at that time. In doing so, the law provides [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u155	Please don't be insulting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u156	the way in which practical work is financed by the participation of employers, the competent Ministry of Education, for the economy, for the work and the Employment Institute. [[…]] We have also distributed the financial resources of those who would participate in this. In the previous law, 50% were on the employers' side and 50% were on the Ministry's side, and now this proposal is aimed at 30% on the employers' side, at the Ministry of Education at a maximum of 50%, at the competent institution at a maximum of 10%, and the Ministry of Economy will also devote up to 10%. In what, then, did we not specify the financial spending, the financial plan? Everything you see not in this marriage is in this marriage. The main point is that you already have some proposal that you are preparing and that you cannot and will not support our proposal. Dear Members and Members, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, unlike government parties, we follow our pre-election promises, you can do their analysis – the laws we tabled – by what we promised before the elections, and you will see that there is a great difference between us, if not a light. We do what we promised; you do exactly the opposite. We will therefore support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u157	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education was tabled by the SDS Group. In its opening statement on the law, it notes that the established dual education system in the 1990s has led to a drop in employers’ interest in the implementation of vocational education provided by employers. This is why the school system has taken over most of the practical training curriculum itself and the smaller part is carried out as a practical training with the employer's work. The fact is, in Slovenia, the fundamental principle of regulating and implementing vocational and professional education is the social partnership. The initiative to reintroduce apprenticeship into the educational system appeared mainly in Germany and some other countries that then concluded the apprenticeship alliance. The initiative was also taken by the Council of Europe in 2013 with a special statement by the European Training Coalition. In Slovenia, the apprenticeship form of vocational education was enacted between 1996 and 2006, when the then government, led by the SDS, abolished it. In order to reintroduce apprenticeship, it is crucial that employers be prepared to achieve better professional socialisation through apprenticeship, a longer period of apprentice involvement in the working environment and thus a greater opportunity to train an apprentice in a given working environment. The introduction of apprenticeship is included in the Social Agreement signed in 2015 and is one of the tasks defined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its programme under the Coalition Treaty. The Government has drawn up a proposal for a law on apprenticeship that responds to the needs of the economy and regulates key issues concerning the manner or form of such education, regulates the status and rights and obligations of the apprentice, employers, schools, chambers and employers' associations and ministries. The Secretary of State said earlier today that the government law on apprenticeship is currently in interdepartmental coordination. In Mrs Desus, we estimate that the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education, which we are considering today, does not answer all questions of apprenticeship, which we want to arrange for coalition partners according to the European model – I think here the Austrian apprenticeship system as well as the German system – and that is why we will not support it in Desus. And here's to the end. In the coalition, we are working to adopt such a law on apprenticeship that will enhance the reputation of apprenticeship and vocational education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u159	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u160	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State with his co-workers, the distinguished proposer, dear colleagues and colleagues! The concept of dual education, vocational education and vocational education is, of course, more than simply to add to the theoretical set of skills and competences derived from practice. It is a question of how to address in the long term the important issue of demographic trends, which is why we are already rightly asking ourselves today whether all people will be able to achieve the same intensity of their work through all stages of their career path, or whether our society has come to a period of time, even when we will have to think through the educational system about a different concept of career paths, especially in the sense that the permanence of education is transferred from the system to industrial sectors or between employers. If the expected working time and labour activity of the population are increasing, it is logical that those who enter the labour market at the age of 18, 20 or 25 cannot work with the same intensity as those who are due from the labour market at the time of 64, while the first does not bear the same level of experience, competence and skills as those who are due from the market. Therefore, the interaction between them, the transfer of knowledge and the appropriate and optimal exploitation of the skills potential and competence of the employee, is crucial not only for the employer but also for the functioning of the company as a whole. Therefore, when addressing the question of how to regulate the apprenticeship system, it is necessary to include in the debate a substantial number more than the question of whose law, our law or theirs, and whether the law appropriately refers to the question of awards, it is more inclined to the idea that each work counts, or less favoured, the idea that apprenticeship must be linked to the job, to a longer-term career plan. In this respect, we understand and welcome, of course, the proposaler's initiative, which also follows what was agreed in this Chamber a year ago, but this initiative has also been followed by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Their proposal is a little wider and a little wider in terms of addressing the longer-term trends and challenges ahead. However, because of its width, it also encountered the need for further coordination and a slightly longer path from presentation to the introduction of the law into parliamentary treatment. So it remains crucial, and this is before the assembly, that today's debate should not be reversed, as it may have been through the presentations of the parliamentary groups – whether it is our proposal or yours, but whether we have properly reconsidered the concept of apprenticeship that we want. Since what we do not want is that apprenticeship would remain or become merely a practice of "on the floor" for a certain number of hours, for which there would be neither a career plan nor a potential employment pool within industry, the public sector or service activity. It remains crucial that the law allows for long-term career planning and successful integration, interaction between the economy and the education system. In this part of today's meeting, we can also find solutions addressed by today's proposaler and incorporate them into an important segment of solutions presented by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in a somewhat broader conceptual understanding of apprenticeship from July onwards. Social Democrats cannot say that the bill is inappropriate for further consideration. We believe that certain solutions can be properly incorporated into the broader government law, so we support the solution publicly presented by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and we believe that, in the context of the inter-departmental coordination and further adaptation of the Government, the latter will also allow the inclusion of comments by employers, housing chambers and all stakeholders who had something to say about this law in the public presentation. Above all, we do not want the concept of apprenticeship to be discussed as one of the technical measures or laws that are written just to satisfy the pre-election promise, because an important part of apprenticeship today, if a craftsman, entrepreneur and school agree to do so, we are already implementing. The key remains whether we will know and be able to support it systematically and horizontally. The Social Democrats Act under this heading will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u161	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u162	Hello! Again, we have before us the SDS proposal for the introduction of apprenticeship. While the proposal seeks to respond to the specific need for practical knowledge and skills, it is written solely from the perspective of employers, as most of the costs go to public resources, and are not taken into account by an apprentice who is treated solely as a wage earner. Practicing for a lot of people at first sight seems like a very attractive solution. We often hear about the old masters and professions that are dying out, despite the knowledge and skills that are still needed and valuable today. However, when this is a matter of concern, it is also necessary to think beyond it. The key questions are whether apprenticeship can achieve the objectives of the education system and who will benefit from the introduction of such a system. The primary objective of secondary education, whether professional, professional or general, is the comprehensive development of young people. From this point of view, any training in the workplace could only be completed, not the main pillar of education. The aim of the apprenticeship system, especially where it is developed – in German-speaking countries – is to employ young people as soon as possible. Of course, employment for young people is a key issue today – not only for young people, but for employment at all. While the rate of registration of unemployment is slow to decline, it is still very high, while the vast majority of new jobs are extremely precarious. Slovenia is ranked first in the European Union after the fine employment of young people. We have a large number of young people who are highly educated and qualified, but they certainly do not find the right job. It is therefore necessary to reverse the logic that, without the need for these young people to be qualified or disabled from higher education and development, such jobs should be opened up systematically so that young people, as well as all other workers, can find quality jobs for decent pay. The introduction of apprenticeship, of course, is not the solution. Early employment of young people is, even at a time when the required working time is constantly increasing, when workers in companies do not have real opportunities for co-decision and are under increasing pressure on health due to the intensity of work, it is rather hampering the incentive for the comprehensive development of young people. This does not mean, of course, that young people should be prevented from making their own decisions about whether they will be educated or looking for employment. It means that public funds must be directed towards the educational and cultural system, in order to remove social barriers to the free development of young people, i.e. inequality in property, cultural and even social terms. Practical knowledge is, of course, extremely important and also part of comprehensive development, but in order to acquire these skills through compulsory practices or apprenticeships, their broader comprehensive education and development must not be curtailed. Above all, it is necessary to clearly distinguish between what is a vocational or practical education with which a worker is trained for a wide range of tasks, and what is training for a specific and specific work process of a specific individual employer. This latter cannot and must not be covered by public funds. From a public financial point of view, the proposal foresees an additional form of subsidisation of economic activity. However, since the economy is not a harmonious community where we are all entrepreneurs and nothing else after neoliberal myths, but in fact the conflict between capital and other employees and workers is a conflict, it is necessary to ask whose interest it is to subsidise. The answer is clear. Systems where there is almost no confrontation between workers and actual income-sharing, where management incomes are sometimes 10-15 times higher than workers' income, subsidising the economy means subsidising management and capital owners, i.e. a narrow privileged layer. Managers and capital owners directly state that they are expecting and, of course, already abundantly receiving large-scale incentives from public funds. Public funds, which should by definition provide public interest, go directly into private pockets. As we look at where these public funds come from, it is even more clear why riches are misdirected and unjustly flowing. Taxes have been reduced by capital and wealth over the past 10, 15 years, and more and more people are being hit. Let us just remember the last tax reforms, for which those with the highest wages for public good contribute much less and the budget will be cut short by about 60 million. Thus, the tax money is Roma from people to capital and capital expects the introduction of workers to a new job to pay for public welfare. Employers see as a problem, in particular, wages or rewards for new apprentices, contributions, insurance, accident liabilities, obligations to apprentices in case of company problems and so on. The problem is that honest work deserves a fair payment. In the United Left, we do not support the principle of direction which is the basis of this proposal, so in our view the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u163	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! I will say directly on behalf of the New Slovenia Group that we will support the amendment of the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. Actually, they're backing up again. I say it directly because it's not possible to live from rhetorical locksmiths. I continue with a very interesting statement that someone made this fall. It reads something like this: "Children who crossed the school threshold for the first time this year will be doing jobs we don't know today." I very much agree with that. In fact, some axiom is actually an axiom. Colleagues and colleagues, we are considering a substantively similar novel of the Law on Vocational and Professional Education, which we discussed before and again before a good year. The coalition does not want to accept this proposal, and unfortunately we do not yet see its proposal to regulate this area. The previous proposal has been supplemented and added a few minor amendments. New Slovenia - Christian Democrats have not changed their position on the introduction of a dual education system or apprenticeship system into Slovenian secondary vocational and vocational education. We still believe that closer integration of theory and practice is needed in education. Vocational, vocational and secondary education play an important role in the development of staff, for the development of municipalities, regions and countries. We are committed to achieving higher levels of knowledge. Christian Democrats are far from alone in this belief, but currently Slovenian professional and vocational education is far from those objectives. We have to do Slovenia according to economic measure or according to economic measure, and this will therefore be good for all people. The education system and the economy must be reconnected. The link between theoretical education and the acquisition of quality practical competences, according to the applicants, provides an easier transition between professions, a reality of modern career paths. Life - or - life education requires that each individual acquire a wide range of theoretical knowledge and also as many direct practical experiences as possible. The existing legislation, which places vocational education only in school in a cooperative relationship with the employer, seeks to upgrade the proposed legislation so that a dual system can also be made possible with the existing system. The latter responsibility for education shall be given to the employer who raises a reliable future staff and thus ensures the quality of production or service. Germany is an example of a country that reaps the good fruit of such a school system. An increase in the quality of work would, according to our assessment, directly stimulate economic activity while at the same time reducing structural unemployment, as it would be easier for young people to opt for vocational education if they were already in school and, above all, they were waiting for a job after school. The law proposes the gradual introduction of a dual system, because in fact the current and dual system would coexist. The dual system will be very likely to be implemented mainly where successful companies and businesses already operate, which demand certain professional profiles. This would also have a positive impact on the reputation of these professions. We expect companies to prepare apprenticeship programmes and successfully start restructuring education due to incentives, which should also be followed by tax incentives. It is a very important solution for apprentices to be considered during working hours, which will be an additional incentive for young people to make easier choices about vocational education and regular progress from year to year. Once again, the amendment of the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education will be again supported by Members of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u165	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Hello! The issue of apprenticeship regulation has been raised several times in the public and also in the National Assembly, and today we are also discussing the issue of the establishment of a dual education system. Applicants, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in the proposal for the amendment to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, stress in particular the importance of reconnecting the education system and the economy with a view to reducing youth unemployment. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of this mandate we have received an invitation from the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise Slovenia to re-establish a dual system of vocational education. From that call, it was also possible to understand the indication that they would seek to re-establish it in agreement with the competent ministry. The Act on Vocational and Vocational Education was adopted 20 years ago. The appropriateness of the dual system was assessed in 2005 under the Phare MOCCE programme, where studies highlighted the inadequate exercise of apprentice status and the need for a thorough modernisation of educational programmes for secondary and secondary vocational education. In 2006, the new Act on Vocational and Vocational Education abolished the special status of apprentice in dual education programmes and introduced an individual and collective learning contract. Today's proposal for a novel renews the legal system of apprenticeships by summarizing fully and almost unchanged the section on apprenticeship, as regulated by the 1996 law. Almost the same proposal as we are considering today has already been tabled by the SDS Group in March 2014 and December 2014 and June 2015. The National Assembly rejected all the proposals. However, it should be pointed out that the 1996 legal solutions were also in line with the Labour Relations Act, and in 2013 this material was removed from the labour law. In addition to the implementation and regulation of apprenticeships, the current proposal for a novice to apprentices for the entire period of practical education in the employer foresees the recognition of working age as an additional incentive for young people to decide on vocational education. Schools would provide free space and facilities to the best graduates as a form of aid for the establishment of a company in the open-ended period. They would pay only current costs and the depreciation would be settled by the state. As I have already mentioned, the proposal for a law before us redefines legal relations and forms of work with apprentices, provides for the possibility that adults can also be educated as apprentices in the Employment Institute programme, and for a new regulation on student status and adult education. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we are aware of the importance of the initiative after the introduction of apprenticeships, and we therefore agree that the introduction of this or the change in vocational education towards early employment of young people is essential. However, consideration of the subject matter should take into account the fact that the introduction of the apprenticeship system constitutes a change of attitude towards vocational education, since the basic responsibility for apprentice education is transferred from school to the employer. The examples of apprenticeships known by other comparable countries in the European Union, in particular the dual system known in the German-speaking countries of Central Europe, remind us that this is primarily a question of apprentice status, which is equivalent or at least comparable to the status of worker. This also leads to a legal regulation of the area, which is not just school legislation, but rather to the need to find answers to questions relating to the status of young people who would work in addition to school, which means that apprentices would be in some way in a working relationship. This also means that, together with the social partners, a consensus will have to be reached on the strategy for the development of vocational education at least by 2020 and, with particular care, a law that will regulate the quality of our young people's education. In view of what we will say in the first phase of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, we will support the Group of Non-Aligned Members in the Parliament, but we expect greater efforts in the future to properly and comprehensively regulate the normative environment and the labour law and achieve social and social consensus. However, we expect from the government or the competent ministry those concrete solutions and initiatives that the former Minister of the Government has put forward and promised already in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u167	We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Tomaž Lisec, representative of the proposed law, spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you, President, for your word. Allow me to respond first to the editorials, both to the opinion of the Government and to the opinion of the parliamentary groups. I have to commend the Government at the outset that they will not say that everything is wrong, unlike the previous two opinions, this opinion at least is not a copy-paste, it is a little different, but it is true that at the end there is almost one side of the opinion where I feel that the Government is a legal service, not a government. Interesting opinion, I must say that for the first time, I see what is really missing in what kind of law the government is writing. But, you know, I have a personal problem with legal services, and I've been in the National Assembly since 2005. This government is not the only one that will bring the bill into the National Assembly and our domestic law enforcement service will tear it apart. In this mandate, there may be more of these cases, even given the fact that the laws coming from the government are less. I must say, if not the other one, since last June, when we tabled about a similar bill, at least we forced the ministry to make a decision. In the previous two opinions it wrote "we will prepare our amendment to the law", and now obviously, as far as I am concerned, I see the draft law on apprenticeship. In short, you have again decided, in my opinion, to be a bit of a strange practice that this government has. This is, you talk about systemic solutions, and then from the system law, like the Vocational and Professional Education Act, you take a certain part and you give it as a special, new law, and we get a bunch of articles, which are then submitted with questionable content to the public first, and then only in implementation. But at least I like that every so long we force the government or a certain ministry to say in two months, but only ministers say, look, we've got one opposition law again, let's have a look at it, and let's do a meeting, this time with the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, trade unions and so on, we'll do something. Dear representatives of the Ministry, you wrote down in June 2015 that you will arrange. 16 months later, you say that there was a public presentation of opinions followed by cross-cutting coordination. By 2020, when the apprenticeship system is to be gradually introduced, you will be preparing the law and bringing it into the National Assembly. Well, you won't, probably some other government will hurry up, but it's a matter of politics and not content. Speaking of cross-cutting coordination, we are already talking in our bill about at least three ministries that are supposed to be involved in this bill. These are: the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy. I'm sure if you have coalition coordination tomorrow, you won't know how to make a deal. If you only observe representatives of all three ministries, you will go further apart in the problem of the resolution of apprenticeships in the Republic of Slovenia. And after you have received so many and so many comments from the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and from us everywhere, you will be further apart. There's going to be a lot of discussions about how you're doing it, trying to solve it, understanding the economics and crafts crisis, as the Prime Minister said at the trade fair, and it's missing what's missing, not just points at i, but the whole last word. You don't even come to Parliament, and the Legal and Legislative Service is probably going to say something, and we're going to have a problem again and a law that when it comes, what it's going to be like. SMC – we share concern. Very nice, but you're the biggest government party, not the smallest opposition party. So I like to share your concern, but I hope that at least those colleagues, for certain reasons, I know that you are also coming from trade and economy, that you will help us and that you may ask each month the question of where this law is, what is happening to it, that we get it before 2020. The SMC said that the result would be a new law. The law is here. If you look at our law, the one from 2014, and then we've changed it 30% in 2015, and now 10%, and if you look at our law and your draft law, which was created after we tabled the second draft of the law in this mandate, if you give that programme to plagiarism, you would find that 70% is very similar to our law. Well, thank God he's that similar. We're not on the shores as much as anyone might think, but the individual numbers are questionable, who would give someone something, who would take something, who would take something, and so on. But, Your Honor, one must begin. And, yes, today's first consideration could also be followed by a public presentation of opinions, but not least as we find out in all the laws, it will never be a marriage for all, but every marriage will be better than what we have now that we have nothing. SMC, when you say so, all consent. It's a prediction that there will never be a marriage. You can imagine at one meeting of the President of the Chamber of Commerce and one or two of the main trade unions in Slovenia. And the theme of apprenticeship. They won't come together. Yesterday there was one article, and the apprentices will also perform practical training abroad, and we will be able to keep them. Of course, not one side of us has the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, there are already individual shifts here. And who picks up at the end? Chief Secret Sweezers, you're not gonna do that. The first question is that the state is asking for too little money. Are you ready to give the Ministry more money? While you accuse us today that we do not have a precise financial picture, after the Minister herself says that for pilot projects money is already in the 2017 budget and also in 2018, we want to make a system to start working fully with 1. 1. 2020, I wonder if you know what the financial picture of your bill is and how much we are each other. I'm sure it's not much. Maybe it's just that we know and write down nicely how much we want to give both mentors and apprentices themselves and who should contribute. Unlike the previous rather flat-rate basis in the law, when we said that by 2020 the state would take care of it, we have now written down exactly who could give it as much. More. It is not only the State through the Ministry that should provide certain funds, but also the schools that have to provide individual matters and, on the other hand, the chambers which must do their part in implementing this law. Everyone has to give something if they want something. Desus — more than the government’s opinion has been read — is never responsible for anything but will support good solutions. But only those who are coalition because Desus is always in coalition. If the government were New Slovenia, the SDS and Desus, and if you came with such a law, you'd say it's not good because you'd be in the coalition. But if we were in the opposition, the question is what would we do? SD – I welcome the kind words, but you know, we are in the National Assembly. The pressure on the button is the one who makes the call. Like I said, it always bothers me when, for two days now, I hear how we Members have adopted some kind of stupid marriage. No, it was not accepted by the Members. The coalition has accepted him. Yesterday I got some text messages from a couple of colleagues who said if we fell on our heads in the National Assembly. I said no, I pressed the counter. Today, too, what someone says about Slovenian media will not be counted, but what they press. It's a shame to lose words about the United Left. I'd only ask the United Left Representative who's paying them. They receive money from the Sava, which runs downstream, or they have a particular tree from which they collect their wages, or they are paid by trade and economy, or by the so-called real sector. I don't think they have any idea where they're getting their office salary. It's over. Yes, thank New Slovenia and the Non-Aligned Members for their support. Although my colleague Miriam Bon Klinšček would explain a little that the marriage is not the same as in 1996. I hope she read that marriage, not just someone wrote it to her. However, the 2013 law and the current experiment have almost 40% of the amended articles. If this is copy-paste, then there are a lot of plagiarists in our country. At least the government is one that is much closer to our bill than our original and current bill. Why I think it is crucial that in these times when this government is bragging about how great it is in the social field, all the flowers, the economy is flourishing, but we have some real problem. Young people are fleeing abroad. Not just those doctors and the masters we congratulate them on. I have quite a few colleagues who have gone to Germany for the last six months, not to talk about Austria or Koroška at all, but to go to Australia, not to New Zealand, but to doctors. They had a three-year vocational school. And what kind of feedback do I get from them? They say that those professions that we laugh at are highly valued and also highly paid. We have a third-class caste made out of apprentices. When I worked alone through a student for four years at one company, let's leave what I did elsewhere in other companies, I always laughed that I wasn't some apprentice, but I was a trainee. It sounded a little better than the apprentice, even though I did the work that students do. Instead of encouraging young people both with prizes, with insurance that this work would be included in their working hours, we reject such proposals of the law at first reading and say to them, young go, Austria, Germany, where they have apprenticeship, they need you, Australia needs you, or in Slovenia, or go to doctors of science, here and there, otherwise you are quite unwelcome. Once again, the first hearing and the system law are ahead of us. I do not think that the Minister should have any problems to support our law, because if you continue to count only the addresses of all the articles that are in our law and the addresses of the articles that are in the government law, I say once again, 70% supported our system, and therefore I expect the Secretary of State to do so, yes that, when you are finally among the coalition, interdepartmental and I do not know how you will agree to come to the SDS Group and before the law in the procedure in the National Assembly, you will also present to us a proposal for a law that we will also learn in some small ways, because it is at least within the professional council of the SDS in various areas, which some people in detail know both the labour law and the education system. And why I do not believe that the government will come with this law before the Members. I think that, on the proposal of the SDS Group, we have dealt twice with a so-called regression claim, which is one of the preconditions, at least the Chamber of Commerce, if we want a serious apprenticeship system by 2020. Dear Members of the Coalition, how did you vote in those laws? Against. So much for how you want your apprenticeship. But in the laws that are supposed to support apprenticeship, you're against it. This also shows that it is only for your theory in schools and practice that people, especially young people, should get where they want. Let me finish. I hope that the President of the Government will not need another international trade fair, where he will boast about how it works, how the President of the Government cannot sleep unless something is arranged, and on the other hand he and his ministers do nothing to save this system. In short, today is one fine opportunity to adopt, following a regular procedure, a proposal for a law which is of a systemic nature. If you reject it, you'll get a government non-systemic law. So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u169	Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Dr. Bojan Dobovšek and Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! Let me begin with the words once spoken by Kempinski: "If you want to be tolerated by others, bear with the others." This is primarily a response to some of the words spoken today before this speaker here in the National Assembly. Now the novelties of the law. Since 2006, when the then government and ministry led by Milan Zver have found that Chapter 5 of the Vocational and Vocational Education Act governing apprenticeships should be deleted in the absence of results, the SDS Group has tabled the amendment of the same law four times to date. Let me remind you, this was the first time in April 2014 and then in January 2015 and June of the same year and now. This proposal, as well as the other two proposals, the last two, contains some appropriate solutions proposed by the proposers in changed circumstances. Experiences from the past can be taken into account; they can be implemented individually into the current situation. However, as we have heard several times before, why we do not support them if, in large part, it is in line with the current government proposal, the fact is that we support the new law, the law on apprenticeship, and not the novels of the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which it has already identified in its chapter, or has found that these solutions are not appropriate, do not achieve the right results. The main reason why the novel has not been adopted in all the attempts so far is similar. Some of these causes, given the reasons, would be listed and some questions would also be addressed to the applicants. It is not clear from the proposal whether there is at least a minimum consensus between all social partners. In this segment, the regulation of the problem of the government and this proposal of the SDS Group differs. On this point, I ask whether the proposal is in line with the employers to whom the most targeted solutions are addressed in this version. Is it also compatible with trade unions and do they assess that the proposal provides adequate protection of the rights of apprentices? Whether the competent ministries agree to share the financial burdens, as you state or propose in this novel. It is important that we have at least approximate assessments in which areas, areas and how many apprentices would in the initial stages benefit from the apprenticeship system proposed by the amendment of the law, because the competent ministry predicts the implementation of 8 to 9 vocational education programmes, and in the first three years they plan up to 200 apprentices per generation. So we have some specific information. This is also important so as not to conclude in the end that there is no real interest of employers and that in fact all this legislation will be in vain. In this case, they would risk approximately the same exercise of apprenticeships as between 1996 and 2004. For correctly, I will say, the establishment of the apprenticeship model must take into account the real needs for new jobs that have changed in the last decade. Swiss calculations, for example, show that if the job is real, then the employer has 7% of the profits if he leaves the apprentice in the workplace. In its opinion, the Government noted that the chapter governing apprenticeship would be difficult to implement in practice. Let me add some inconsistencies or shortcomings myself, if I may say so. The proposal does not provide for the possibility and the path of judicial protection of the rights of apprentices. In the parliamentary group, we believe that this must be a compulsory part of this marriage solution, i.e. the law on apprentices. Nor do we find in the proposal amended criminal provisions, for example, regarding the non-payment of apprenticeship awards and other benefits. In the plenary debate on the January 2015 paper, I commented on the purpose and objectives of the novel, which was presented at the time, of course this purpose and objectives also now stand out. It is pointed out that Slovenian vocational education is facing the problem of multi-annual decline in vocational and vocational education. So it's a drop in the number of students. However, data from the Statistical Office show that this is not the case or that the proportion per year is increasing. During the school year 2015-2016, it amounted to 63.6% and remained in the high school programme. We have been defending the apprenticeship system in the Modern Centre Party since the first novel presented by the proponents, but in the framework of the new law, which we have heard is in the inter-departmental coordination phase, and we will most likely get it in the National Assembly this year. This mentions that it can or will be implemented already in the school year 2017/2018 after this time period. Of course there are concerns. The social partners, as already mentioned, have doubts as to whether they are coordinated. It's not. It's not consistent. We want and will follow these further coordinations and believe that the majority consensus will be reached. As you have already mentioned, can we achieve full consensus and full consistency in this law? Very hard. I hope we will, so we cannot support this novel and expect a new law on apprenticeship in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you. Thank you, however, for the constructive debate and certain questions. It is not clear whether at least a minimum consensus or if the proposal is harmonised, you started Mrs Verveg, and then you yourself said that your law would certainly not be 100 % harmonised. So we're on the same page. Our marriage probably won't be optimal for everyone, not even yours. But I hope that our marriage will be more favourable to craftsmen and economists, and more to your ministries, because the ministries are the ones who will make the law. I have already said that we could respond to possible concerns by publicly presenting opinions, even though we have met with craftsmen or chambers, both. But it's about unions. I personally have had problems with them for some time now, and I know that they will always oppose whatever we do, especially what we will do in the SDS Group. Then you said you were afraid that there was no employer interest. The introduction of apprenticeship is supported by almost 90% of Slovenian companies. So I hope that the interest is that ladies and ladies, not only from the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, but also their members support apprenticeship in Slovenia. That this will be difficult to do in practice. I agree. The law is probably not optimal. But that is why it is the first consideration and if we let it go forward, we will get an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which is likely to raise some questions, initiatives and not least concerns. If the only problem is the criminal clause, then there's no problem. Then there are so many other laws by the government that should fall on the first obstacle are passed. Which, in the end, despite the constructive debate, I would say is a new moment from the Ministry. It's always been, "we're going to prepare a new law on vocational and professional education." After June last year, the Ministry apparently only decided that it would have its apprenticeship law, and here I have just said at least to the Ministry that it is not at least a copy pasta opinion of the Government, but to a certain extent improved. No law is likely to be optimal, and even more likely, implementation in practice will be questionable at least by 2020. That is why we have written among the transitional provisions that businesses can integrate into the apprenticeship system, i.e. they have three and a half years, four years of time for a country on the one hand, and on the other hand employers to find that moment, perhaps even any amendment to such or other apprenticeship law to make the matter at least normatively acceptable, of course in the hope that it will be as feasible in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Amendment of the Act on Vocational and Vocational Education is necessary. We have already talked about it in this national assembly, and we will obviously talk about it until there is a change in this area. Why is this so important? In particular, due to the high unemployment rate, especially for young people. This law applies not only to young people but also to those who are unemployed who want to be educated in this system. For this reason, I also find this marriage to be very good. On the one hand, we have a large number of unemployed, although I know, yes, very much like to boast, the number of unemployed falls. Data, very nice, encouraging, but still, if we look at the period before the crisis, we have lost 68 thousand jobs in the economy. That's of great importance. And such a law, I believe, would help to get any of these jobs back. On the one hand, we have the unemployed because they don't find the right working meat. There's also a lot of, I'll say, inadequately educated. Not appropriate in this sense, because we simply have over-educated certain profiles, while we have manca on the other side. And that's a big problem for society as a whole. I am quite on the ground, I also talk a lot with various entrepreneurs, employers, and very often I hear that when they have an invitation, especially for a particular more technical cadre, it is very difficult to get employees. This is again one of the reasons why the system of apprenticeship for Slovenia is extremely important. Many times, at least in the past, parents have been pushing their children to go to high school or many of the young people have not even decided what they would like to do in life and it is best to go to high school, since then it will be four years before he decides what he will do with his life. Many professions have little negative appeal in the eyes of young people today. And it might be very nice if we could take a walk in the production of some company and see what kind of profession it looks like. A lot of companies do that. Many companies grant scholarships to attract young people. They have open-door days inviting young people, "come and see what production looks like." Just to show them that work is essentially pure, that work is something completely different than it used to be in some kind of production. Why? Because they want to attract young people for individual professions because they are aware that for a period of, I don't know, five, ten years they won't even have people to hire. That's why it's so much more important. On the other hand, we also have young people, not just young, active people who go abroad. And that's a big loss for the country. That's why laws like this are crucial. On the one hand, we have education, on the other hand, we have an economy. For a very long time, we have been talking about the need to connect these two. It is not enough to link only between the university and the economy, of course this is also of exceptional importance. This connection must also be achieved in secondary and vocational education. How important it is that we move things forward. We have heard that 90% of businesses support the apprenticeship system. And this amendment to the Vocational and Vocational Education Act, which we are talking about today, introduces exactly this, introduces a system of apprenticeships in a way that allows the employer and, on the other hand, the school to cooperate, with a programme that actually takes place at a rather individual level, through a personal educational plan that takes place again on the one hand with the school, on the other hand with the employer, which is crucial, and in this way also adapts to the abilities of the individual learner, the apprentice. Someone may not be the best student, but in some parts he can be a great expert and he is making excellent progress, and here is the opportunity to actually adapt to this level, not least, we also have athletes, artists, and they also need to adjust the system so that other activities can work successfully. I am of the opinion that the establishment of the apprenticeship system is crucial if we want our economy to continue to develop successfully. We do not want economists to go abroad because it would be easier to find appropriate labour and employees there. Businesses are still aware of how important people are. And they are also aware of how difficult it is sometimes to get a properly trained employee because our educational system does not allow it. There is currently little practice in vocational education. Companies want to get to know people through this apprenticeship system or a dual education system. Last but not least, this is good for young people, for this may present itself to a prospective employer during schooling. And believe me, everyone better will definitely get a job, and this transition from education to work will be so smooth. And that's of great importance. That's why I'm calling again, look, the law is in front of you, and we've improved it according to the criticisms we've heard in the previous hearing. Of course, I believe he's not perfect yet, but today's the first time. Through the legislative procedure, there's still a lot of opportunity to finish it, drink it. I suggest you support him. I absolutely support it because I know how important this is for young people, for those who are unemployed, and not least for the development of the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr Lisec said in response to our position on the Group of Members, and of course the Government's position that the government's proposal is also 70% in fact in line with what the Ministry of Education and Sport presents in its vision of the regulation of apprenticeship and professional vocational education. In this regard, I see nothing wrong, because, as I said in my opening position, the Ministry's proposal is somewhat broader and conceptually covering some aspects that are not resolved in the law before us today. It is somewhat broader to understand the concept that each work considers that it is not only a matter of reward and that it is not only a question of technical implementation of practice, but of the dismay that apprenticeship, as such, must offer in relation to career planning and the comprehensive development of the individual's competence. Competence, as such, consists of knowledge and skill. It is not possible to agree that anyone opposes this law because he is a proponent. We are simply not going to support the law because the proposer himself notes that the proposal of the ministry is broader. It is true, it is not yet in parliamentary proceedings. But even if this law, proposed by the Ministry, comes with a further 3-month delay, we can properly place it in the next and next school years. Similarly, this law, if approved by the end of the new year, does not change anything essential this year. In any case, he is referring to the school years coming, and in this regard, at least in my personal opinion, it is wise that, with the relation of both proposals, he is trying to address a broader segment of the issues. In this case, my conscience would be completely clear if the Ministry's proposal were not available and would support the SDS proposal and sleep peacefully. But since I know that there is a proposal that is conceptually closer to me, I will also have a clear conscience when I reject this proposal today. Once again, I understand the purpose, intent and also the goodwill of the proposer who is submitting this law for the third time, but I assess that this has also been achieved by the last submission. The Ministry has accelerated the process, it has entered into a dialogue with all key stakeholders, there is a law on the table that has been under public scrutiny, the nature of public hearing is to gather most of the proposals, usually those that say this and that and that, and that is not good, so that the Ministry, in the inter-departmental process, harmonises what is not good, clears it to the government and brings it to the national assembly, where there is still something to be fixed. But in my opinion, that law will be more suitable for enforcement than it is for today's table. For that reason, I reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Kotnik has the floor. Prepare Mr. Franz Breznik and Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u178	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! The proposer wants the field of apprenticeship to be regulated. That's what we want in SMC's client. This means that we have a common goal, which is very positive. The only difference is that the proposer proposes changes to the law before reaching social consensus. But our position is different. First, it is necessary to find the appropriate agreement of stakeholders and then to develop the apprenticeship model to the fullest extent and to adopt appropriate legal solutions. Comrade Mahnic touched on the issue that apprenticeship was not appreciated. In doing so, I would mention that the survey conducted in public shows almost 100% support for apprenticeships. The data for the period 2009-2013 also show that the proportion of students educated in vocational and vocational education programmes is approximately 40% higher than the proportion of students educated in high school programmes. This indicates that the trend of enrolment in secondary and secondary vocational education programmes is increasing. My colleague, Lep Šimenko, talked about talking to employers, and I also had a lot of conversations with entrepreneurs myself. I visited Damatech in Jesenica, where they told me that they wanted to cooperate and also to finance because they lacked technical staff. But here I would point out another positive aspect, because all the days and even today I'm listening to a lot more negative than positive things. In the Railways in Donel, in the LTH Castings and at the MIC in Škofja Loka, I talked to all the stakeholders and it is interesting that these three stakeholders are already working together, as well as the Ministry of Education, which approved three departments for the education of students. All three cooperate by contributing funds to classroom equipment so that students have the opportunity to be educated and have the possibility of education or practice. But what I liked most about all of this was that all of these students, who later work in these companies, also have the possibility of career advancement. So I think that, despite the fact that we always like to follow the example of the neighbouring countries as they do, we already have examples of good practice with us, and what is important is that this law really needs to be negotiated between us. It's understandable that there are concerns. Some concerns are justified, but each shareholder is looking from his point of view, and I am convinced that compromises can be found that this law will be really good. I do not support the proposal of the applicants, but I support the proposal of a good law that is in preparation and I am sure that it will also see the light of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Prepare Mr Franz Laj and Mr Saša Tabaković. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! First of all, I must say that I will support the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. All of you note that this is already the third attempt to make this law on our part. I hope you're also wondering why the third attempt to make this law is. Obviously because, despite all the promises and assurances made so far, the coalition has not brought the law into the National Assembly to solve the problem. The president said that this law needed to be a dual education, apprenticeship and so on, you all talk about it, and in conclusion, she said that it was necessary for stakeholders to agree on it and to make good decisions on this basis. In this part, I fully agree with the predecessor, with her colleague, but she forgot that we have our first reading, which means that the marriage is in the initial stage and that there are still many stages until the law is confirmed. This means that marriage can be greatly improved if you feel that it is so poorly prepared. However, you forget that in the meantime there may also be a stage of public representation of opinions in this national assembly, which is common practice even when you pass a law that has been coordinated within the coalition and within the professional services with stakeholders for more than a year, and in reading on the parental committee there is no support. It is said that the procedures will also allow for both cases where the Government has agreed with all those involved in the drafting of the legislation to agree in the coalition, still enter into the procedure in the National Assembly and in the home committee to come up with a proposal to continue to make a public declaration, despite the fact that such a law has been adopted for one year and has been more coordinated with all stakeholders. We're talking clearly about the health law, the pharmacy business. So this law also has a long way to go to come up with a coordinated solution, but this is only if you support the first reading. Then, in the next stages, we find solutions, probably sooner than in one year or one and a half years, what is happening to your drug law, which is that there will be no mistake, previously coordinated in the coalition and with all stakeholders. Thus it was understood from the accompanying materials. We speak in this third introduction of the law that we have in some way adapted to all stakeholders such comments as were presented to us in previous discussions, and this law somehow summarises all these comments, including them. However, we do not want to argue that it is a definitive solution and that it would not be given further and further complemented in the process of adoption within the National Assembly, and may also be adapted to certain wishes. Otherwise, there is no coalition, even with some predecessors, there has been a speech that the Government's proposal is now in inter-departmental coordination, that it is certainly better, that it is systemic. I, who have been in this national council for a long time, but I kind of know these things, and it's hard to buy them. I will return to the proposal on pharmacy activities, which was not only in inter-sectoral coordination, not only in coordination with all stakeholders in that area, but was in fact coordinated within the coalition, but still not good and so on. It is said that this story has a relatively poor basis if you talk about the fact that it is better in inter-departmental coordination than this proposal proposed by our party or my colleagues who have tried and prepared it. This law actually sums up the demands of both the economy and all other stakeholders within this process of education and we see no reason not to get your support in relation to all your discussions, how appropriate it is to regulate ourselves within our system, and not least, you all acknowledge that this is also important in this title, because you have included this in the coalition contract and you have also talked over at the pre-election time about how we have a somehow deformed education system mainly in the field of personnel, which covers mainly professional professions, where we are achieving with the current education that people come from some primary level of this vocational education, two, three, four-year schools into the economy, into businesses and these employers find that they are practically useless young people. This is especially a source of damage to young people. Looking back, even at the time that I went to both high school and college, these were mandatory things, that someone practiced most of the time where he had the scholarship, and thus gained the necessary experience to be able to perform immediately with some active involvement in the work process. On the other hand, those companies that financed it also had some insight into the personnel that came after the completion of the schooling and were able to adapt in this direction. But now we have cases where young people actually graduate from school, and they can't get a job. On the other hand, they cannot open up their businesses because of ignorance, and most of the time, even in this labour market, they are starting to position. All the employment processes also talk about some pre-announcement, some practice that has been done, some work experience, and in the way that we have it legally, or as it is now in practice, it is increasingly difficult for young people. All these anomalies are somehow trying to save themselves with a solution like the one proposed on the table. Once again, I will stress that this is the first phase, the first reading, but at least this is the beginning, and on your side this is always just a lot of talk about systemic solutions that will solve matters in the long run, but if these solutions are not in the parliamentary benches, there is no solution at the end, and there will be no effect from this title. I was also disturbed by some of the debaters who have always stressed that the matter is ready, in line with the economy, trade and so on, but is not in some way aligned with the education system. It's a very broad term. So, clearly, those who are now in some way constantly employed, teachers, insist on new programmes, which ultimately do not bring some quality in the human resources sense, say we do not get a staff to meet the needs of the economy. It is certainly not in the interest of some things to improve, to simplify, for they are likely to be disadvantaged in some part. Until we are united as to what is good for future voters, because it is likely that not all of the full-years covered by this law will be very difficult to move forward, and we will always find that in every legislation there is obviously someone who will stop the matter because he does not like it. I think it is high time, however, that no matter what kind of law it comes from, which also solves things in terms of improvement in the real state, we also support it and thus enable it to improve in the next stages. However, in view of your discussions on how such a law is needed and how this system of secondary education needs to be improved, the introduction of apprenticeships, apprenticeships and similar receptions, as all of our neighbouring countries know, is said in this respect that all of you are discussing this in a positive way and all of you realize that this is necessary, I expect you to support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor to prepare for the mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u182	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greetings to the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking again about the apprenticeship system, about apprenticeship and this time, as a coalition Member, I regret the SDS Group's proposal. My vote against, of course, does not mean a vote against the apprenticeship system. The issue of apprenticeship is certainly one of the key elements of the strategy against youth unemployment, as it simply encourages the integration of work and education. However, I must also point out this time the shortcomings of the provisions and the inconsistencies of the proposal itself, which is not only substantive but also substantive. The proposed amendments to the law are very conceptually similar, they are not copy-paste, but they are conceptually similar to those in 1996-2000, when the legislation already existed, and, as we have heard today, Mr Milan Zver, the then minister, has simply drawn it because these provisions have turned out to be ineffective. Notwithstanding the fact that I do not politically agree with the gentleman, I will certainly give him the benefit of the doubt in this regard. If we want to talk about the development of apprenticeships, it is highly dependent on employers' efforts to easily provide teaching places and training in the company and to properly design curricula in accordance with schools. If we want the exercise of apprenticeship to work successfully, there is a need for the responsible actors to be linked responsibly and this is not the proposal for a novel. Your proposal is simply written on the skin of employers' organisations and craftsmen. You yourself have said this in your position, and this is also clear from the burden sharing in the financing of the apprenticeship model. Of course, I can agree that the burden needs to be divided and I do not see any problems in this, but they need to be divided in some fair way, and above all fair with a view to budgetary resources. The fact is that your proposal does not give an approximate assessment of the financial implications for the state budget. I must say that I have had a lot of fun on this subject, I have to say in a way to the schizophrenic of the SDS Group when we actually have Mr Lisco's proposal on the table, which he himself wrote that he cannot give an assessment that he does not know what the assessments of this proposal are, and then we listen to colleague Mahnič in presenting the views of the SDS Group, which represents the financial implications of the proposal made by the SDS Group in June 2015. Then we have this schizophrenia again when we have on one side a colleague of Lisca who is talking about how they actually upgraded this bill, but at the same time colleague Mahnic is actually giving a financial assessment without actually taking into account what colleague Lisec is saying to him. Given that, in fact, colleague Mahnic and colleague Lisec are sitting together, it would be considered that we might get our heads together and actually decide which proposal they want to support the coalition at all. When we talk about who really is a good master and how a good master should work for the welfare of citizens, citizens and countries, we can also convince ourselves that if we look at what the government is actually doing by consolidating public finances in the event of good governance with public finances and what was actually happening in the time of the government of Janez Janša when the debt of the country went to heaven, of course citizens can also answer themselves in this sense who is actually a good master. As it is said, the proposal is very prone to employers’ wishes. It should be noted here that legislation should be adopted in such a way that it can easily be produced over time. If we introduce a system where the state simply pays most of the costs for the apprenticeship model, this way we can track the path of employers in a way that could lead to some abuse. The abuse of apprenticeship becoming in some way, if I say very harshly, trafficking in human beings within the meaning of some free labour force. Because the worst part is that employers use apprentices in the sense that the state would cover as much costs as possible when the apprenticeship is over, they would show the apprentice the door. In fact, this is probably something none of your colleagues want from both the opposition and the coalition. Indeed, I am fully aware that we cannot say that the proposal of the novel is not harmonised, but that it will not be up to all stakeholders. If we are talking about coherence, we are certainly talking about coherence in the way that there is a minimum consensus, that apprenticeship as a system, when we can actually implement it, we are actually talking in concrete terms. I must also add that when I visited the MIC Grand Centre, which is one of the best centres in Slovenia, which is actually very much affected by this issue, I actually looked very unburdenedly for the proposal of the SDS Group, and they thought it was simply bad for them as such. But I believe it's not bad for employers. When I listen to my colleague Pojbič, who says that the SMC Group is actually a parliamentary group, I don't know, lobbyists, actually when I look at this proposal, I ask myself in truth about his words and how to actually address them properly and understand them. If I understand in any way the proposal of the SDS Group, I simply understand them in the light of political pressure that the opposition can properly and fully legitimately exercise on the executive branch to draw attention to a subject and only to the dynamics of accepting change. I'm totally joining them here. However, in the light of the articles of the law of the government proposal, I think that the Government's proposal will somehow address the issue that we are discussing today in a more concrete and qualitative manner. That is why I will not support the SDS proposal today alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabaković, I think the expression schizophrenia is a little overextended because it is a serious disease. And please stay away from this in the future. Please, procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you, Vice President. I hope it's not as comprehensive a solution as it was the Maritime Code because you made such a barn that we had to change the law a few months later. My procedural proposal, Mr Vice-President, is that you bring two documents to Mr Tabakovic. The first is the previous proposal we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The second is a magnetogram of the previous meeting, at which we considered this proposal to see the words of the Ministry. He said we were schizophrene or schizophrenic in SDS. Why? Since Mr Lisec speaks, colleague Tomaž, that there will be no financial consequences or that it is difficult to assess them, and I have specified these figures, exactly how much they could do in each year. I have not only read this proposal, which we have now tabled, but also that which is only before and before. And in the last proposal, we wrote exactly for each year how many million would be needed. And since 2020, when this proposal comes into full effect, it would require €70 million per year. At that time, the government said that these numbers did not hold because we did not know what the financial consequences would be. And we're just explaining, you know what the form is like when you file a bill, you get it on the table, you get an assessment of the financial implications of the bill, you just write what the government said. Despite the fact that we had the numbers we wrote: "In view of the gradual introduction of the law by 2020 it is difficult to predict the exact consequences for the state budget." Thus, in this proposal we have only summarized the words of the Government. Since Mr Tabakovic obviously does not know whether he has read the previous proposal yet, I suggest, Mr President, procedurally, that he be given the previous proposal at the table and also a magnetogram that he will see that the Government has indeed said that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Of course I won't do it. The apostle spoke in his own name, and what he said he said, and yet he stands behind it or does not stand behind it, he will judge it himself. The speaker has the floor, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u186	Thank you, Vice President. You said the MP spoke for himself. But if an MP is lying or has no idea what he's talking about, keep it quiet. Mr Tabaković spoke about the country's debt between 2004 and 2008. Dear Mr Tabakovic, when was the only time we had a flat budget in the Republic of Slovenia? When's the public debt? And when is the debt of the country? The two-month course may be the last line there, I think Mr Han, Mrs Bratusek at least know what it is. But if you don't know, don't talk about it. It is supposed to be a lobbyist law and therefore it will not support it, but 70% of the Ministry's copy-paste will support it. So much for schizophrenics and so on. The financial implications have already been discussed by my colleague Jean. We had exactly what was written in the previous law, when it would enter into force, and the ministry said, "We do not know how it will be, we will prepare a law that will enter into force in 2020". They don't even know. I would like to ask you, honourable Members of the coalition and representatives of the Ministry, in the introduction, whether you know the financial implications of your bill. Once again, I quote you on the transitional provisions. "By 2020, companies shall be gradually integrated into the apprenticeship system in accordance with their capabilities." Then how do we know if they'll all be one? 1. 2017 grabbed or with 1. 1. 2020? You know, Mr. Tabakovic? All we know is that interest is great. But what it will be like, we probably don't know exactly, we don't know exactly, not the Ministry. And don't worry, you started the law-making procedure when – either you lied about the financial consequences or you wrote the same as us that the financial consequences are hard to predict. As far as Minister Beast is concerned, as we know, 2004-2008 blames everything, and I will quote the opinion of one senior official from that mandate. "They say that we have abolished apprenticeship in that term. That's not true. When we arrived at the Ministry, some new programmes were already in place, we were just continuing to introduce the current system of vocational and vocational education, and the whole system changed or began to change in 2000. Schmut! But at the time, it wasn't Dr. Beast, it wasn't Yangsh's government. One other anti-social government was the one that started to undermine the system and then we just realized that the system had failed and will have to be re-established once again. That government went back to history in 2008. The new government, and the social government didn't bring it back. Mr Škoberne, too bad he's not here, I'd almost specifically ask him if he knows where the differences between our law and the government law are, because he's "like" a wider government. It's not true at all. I said that the only difference is in certain numbers, who gives them something. It's the only concept. We can follow the articles. Some articles are literally copy-paste of our proposal, and we welcome this, which means we are on the right track, and you object for the same reason – the wrong proposalr. That's all that bothers you. If that 30% problem is a problem, believe it when you come to the National Assembly – how many comments will the Legislative and Legal Service make and how many comments will there still be? And not least, I think you're gonna have a big problem inside the government. When ladies and gentlemen from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Economy are sitting at the same meeting. When everyone's got their hands back like this, they say, "but they wouldn't give us that much, and they wouldn't give me that much." On the other hand, you'll have craftsmen who will say, "so much or we're not going to do this." And more. You'll have favored unions that will want more than that. Are you sure you can satisfy these appetites? In view of the current draft budgets, by no means. At least until 2018. But what's gonna happen after 2018 and you're still hanging down because you won't be there. And again, why we decided to have this law now in October. We have a November and December session, and it has also been said by the Ministry in previous discussions that it takes at least 9 months for cases to be carried out both within the government or ministries and in the cooperation of all those affected by the law. You will adopt the law on 1 June and then probably make a revolution in the field of apprenticeship during the summer holidays of 2017. You will not, because you dream too much and flaunt the Slovenian nation by the way you want it. That's why you're part of the coalition in Parliament to do this, not to dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u188	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In opening, I would like to say that I will support the bill. I am sure that there is a need for change in this area. In particular, we are told by the Chamber of Commerce, the economy, small entrepreneurs and Slovenia here have a lot of reserves and mistakes that have been made in the past need to be rectified. The fact is that there is a need for cooperation between the economy and between vocational schools, and I am particularly convinced that there is not enough attention to the needs of the economy in particular. I am sure that vocational schools should actually write small economies. I am convinced that only the Chamber of Commerce, the economy knows what kind of profile people, such as trends, need. It is sad when we are primarily talking to small entrepreneurs who need a new workforce to sign off on their jobs. For example, more than 200 interested persons come to the interview and then the owner himself or the one who talks to him finds that, despite the fact that he has finished school, that he does not actually have the knowledge that he should have or that he expects. Above all, it is important for students to have an insight and to get to know each other significantly earlier through the process of education with the actual state of the profession for which they are educated. I am sure that theory is something, practice is something else, and here the issue needs to be supported and done everything to get this segment back to Slovenia. I think that it should, in particular, take stock of the good practices of the neighbouring countries of Austria, where this is organised in a way that is actually an added value for both the student and the one he will later employ. On one side, I do not understand the coalition, the coalition is playing again a game that we are already used to in the party of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This means a rebuttal, 'we will not support, we will prepare a law that will be better, the law is currently being prepared'. Unfortunately, however, after the experience we have with the laws of this coalition, we see that these laws are inconsistent and that the comments are legislative and legal services. But I also don't understand because today is the first reading. If it were in the interest of anyone to get a really good marriage, and especially those words that the coalition would like to speak outside this Chamber or outside this House, such as some link between the opposition and the coalition, that the opposition would expect mainly proposals on the table, not that we interfere with the work of the coalition or the work of the government with the interpretation and other matters, when the opposition brings into Parliament a concrete law offering some solutions and that the voting machine of this coalition of SMC, SD and Desus rejects it. I am sure that the process and content of this law would be better, better, faster if the coalition decided today to support this first reading. I personally agree that perhaps certain things here should be corrected and I see no reason why I should not support these matters in the first reading, and then somehow with common powers, both the participation of educational activities and in particular the economic segment, the Chamber of Commerce, which is somehow the most involved in this law, offer a solution that will have added value both to the educational system and to the economy. Today, too, the issue mentioned by the Chamber of Commerce has been mentioned several times, but not by the Government of Mir Cerar, but by the coalition you do not have a hearing, but here I am thinking mainly of regressive claims. Allow here to listen to the Chamber of Commerce, because regressive claims that do not have any limitations are such that today none of the insurance companies will want to protect it and that a number of resert claims that are not limited can cause any entrepreneur to close its business due to resertial claims. I'm sure it's in the interest of everything that the coalition has said today that it will not support it. I'm really looking forward to your marriage, which you're explaining will be better. I am sure that the end of the days when his mother's working body will treat him will be significantly thicker. It will not be thicker not because of your content, but mainly due to corrections and comments of the Legal and Legislative Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Ivan Škodnik. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you, Vice President. Throughout the debate, we have heard that the only argument for rejecting this law is that the government has already come up with its proposal, which has been publicised, that the government has already had various consultations, that it has already set up some strategic groups, that it will now carry out pilot projects and so on. We have made it clear in what way this third proposal of ours we have come closer to demanding craft and entrepreneurship in this mandate. This is that we have changed funding and that after this new law employers do not contribute more than 50%, but 30% in this process, the rest are distributed by the ministries. And what was evident before was that we included the elderly, that they could also participate in this dual schooling or that the elderly could also be apprentices. I can't agree there's no financial implications. Despite the fact that we have written here that they are not known, we have clearly outlined in the previous proposal what the financial scheme will be and what will be the financial consequences of the adoption of this law. But as I have already said twice today, and I will be the third time, if we are talking about 10 million for the following year, because we know that we have written down that we will gradually move to the full introduction of this dual school system in 2020, so if we take these 10 million euros, and if we take what we have proposed to correct the injustices that have occurred in the past to all those who have subsequently renounced the social security benefits due to the new legislation, we will not come to half of what this coalition commits in one year for migrants, that is 123 million euros. This is practically more than one percent of the budget. This law has been supported both in the various chambers and in the education system. I think we've been talking about this too long. This is already our third proposal in two years. The government is now only starting a pilot project when we propose that the full implementation of the law should take place in 2020. Until then, gradually, but I doubt that, at the pace we have now, there will be any realisation or introduction into the practice of what you will now learn or what you will see from these pilot projects. At the beginning of this year, the Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Škofje Loke, convened a meeting, interestingly, of all the members invited, was attended only by me and my colleague, Master Marko Pogačnik, where we also discussed this dual school system. There, in addition to all the other problems they face, the economists also highlighted the need to do so. In the United Left, they say it's a matter of getting good people to school at the expense of state money. Ladies and gentlemen, economists already need to get good staff in their company, because, as we know, public education is free, we will not talk about how much it is free and how much it is not, but, however, economists expect if everyone who pays taxes in this country, even companies pay them, and from these taxes also goes the money for the education system to get such staff that they will then also employ and also use their knowledge in this company. Because this is not the case, and we agree that it is in some way that entrepreneurs get the staff and they are trained at the expense of state money, and that is the point of public education, such as we have, that the future personnel that the economy will need are trained at the expense of taxpayers. Since this is not the case and because it is mainly insufficient practice, you can take a good example to look at the School Centre in Škofja Loka, where due mainly to this lack of linking the education system to the education system, they have workshops, they have done virtually all the production there and they are in practice learning what they have in theory, that when a CNC operator comes into the company, without having a problem there as to how to calculate how to do it, let's say if I'm talking about a company that I know best from my district, the company Marmor Hotavlje, where I have also worked both in production and in preparation of work, that we will get such personnel that when they come to this company, they can go after this machine, for this NC machine and that they can work without having to know how much else to invest and not know how much mentoring to provide them. Because that's what you're doing right now. The company employs someone and this employee, who already receives the salary, all the income, is in a way the burden of the company in the sense that they have one employee who has been introducing this person for months and months. A specific example, NC-1300, this is one of the very advanced machines in the company Marmor Hotavlje, where they work 3D technology, which was the main contractor for the Church of the Holy Save in Belgrade, there you can see what our technology can do, came from a high school, but because we do not have this dual school system, it was necessary to teach this young person from the beginning to the end that you could then set him up as a self-employed worker for this machine. This is said not only to pay from the taxes collected an educational system which does not bring you the kind of personnel they need, but also to spend extra time there, in particular in practice, which is expected and should already be the task of the education system. That's what our law brings. If you do not support it, I expect the year to pass, a maximum of two, before the elections, when we do not get a law in this House that will prepare these changes and, above all, enforce them by 2020, as our law does.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Those of us who have come into politics from work are advocates of work. We know that the added value is not built in cabinets, offices, social work centres and similar institutions, state institutions, but is built in factories. So, in a small and large economy. The responsible country must do everything to ensure that the economic system works well, to ensure that it has the conditions, I will say, ugly, guaranteed reproduction also as regards the renewal of personnel. I ask you whether, according to what we know, we have done enough or enough to meet these conditions. We didn't. Who is responsible for the education system in Slovenia? Probably the state, the Ministry of Education. Has he done what is expected of him in this area or not? It's not. Many of you here now wonder how. But if we need such a system, if we need this model of education, then the state must provide it. If you are boasting about how much you invest in education, then we need to invest not only in research and development, because we know why it is necessary to do so, but we need to do something for the basic part, which is to say that there will be an implementation of research and development in practice in enterprises in order to make the product and sell it. That's a fundamental problem. And then people are teaching us here and discussing which branch in our proposal is missing. I am sure that no government law that has come into the legislative process is as perfect as this. Not one. And you didn't mind. Yesterday you confirmed two laws, two vetoes relating to traffic, where the minister said, confirm that, we'll make the changes immediately. This is said to have consciously confirmed two marriages with a mistake, with a kick, and nothing bothered you. Today, however, you are wondering whether any comma in this proposal of ours is properly or not. This is a scandal, what you do and how you discuss it. You're asking us to draft a law that will be in line with the Economic and Social Council if I simplify it. The opposition has no Economic and Social Council. And to remind you, the government doesn't have it anymore, because the economy has come out of the Economic and Social Council because of various things. The Economic and Social Council is composed of only government and unions. Now I ask you, given that the assembly system of changes in this area supports whether they set the criteria and criteria for the trade union economy. What the economy needs in the education system. Is that what the unions make of it? Will we follow those who encounter domestic and European and global competition in the market, fight for the product and sale of their products there, and the only thing that happens there is in export, is the criterion or the base component of that cumulative data on economic growth? How much do trade unions contribute to economic growth? Probably not much. You're saying the government has embarked on a pilot project that we don't know when it'll be over. And it's probably swimming somewhere, not under the clouds, but above the clouds, that's saying it won't be visible yet. You're all saying that the government's proposal for a law is a draft that goes around somewhere after inter-departmental coordination, that it's better than ours. What items? Which solutions do you think he's better at? Can someone do this on the table today, who's discussing it here? The government has not yet said A in the debate of fellow Members at this point. She hasn't said A yet. When government representatives come to defend or defend their solutions or comment on ours, they don't speak, they don't comment. They sit to make everything go away, and then they say five sentences in five minutes, and that's what it is. I'm disappointed in the work of this government. It has never happened that government representatives would not hope to raise their hands and tell Members, "Look, here, here you are wrong". Here we have such a solution. This is the rule in this mandate. Then some player from the biggest government party allows himself to teach us how right and what is right and what is wrong with us. This approach is scandalous. Colleagues have said that we have tried to legislate this solution several times in this mandate. It is not a problem in the accompanying mandatory content of the law. Whether it costs a little more or a little less, no problem is that. No problem at all. These are excuses. Everything that's written there is an indicative information anyway. But if there's no reason, if you don't have any argument to defamate some of the solutions that SDS brought to the table, then you're sticking to these little things. I don't think this government can make any developmental breakthroughs. Everything that's going on is flowing through the inertia. It's all about inertia. There is not one government measure for economic growth; there is not one government measure in the area of improving education for manual professions, if I simplify, that is to say for craftsmen, for entrepreneurs, for capable labour, which will work on demanding technological machines and so on. Nothing in this area is done. Although we have proposed several times, the government has in fact not moved completely in these two years and has not moved in this area for two months. If anything were to happen, the matter would have been improved by now. The economy knows what it needs. We who have been working in the economy for 10 years or more have also led investments, looked for new products and customers, and we know how to do so. The only thing I don't know is that a group of people don't listen to it and make all sorts of excuses. I would strongly recommend to the government and the coalition Members that, in this first reading, the objectives of the law's main solutions be identified as suitable solutions. And if anything is missing, the well-respected government and respected coalition MPs, who always have the last word, you will make an appropriate addition, at least with the care of correcting your irregular laws and solutions. You don't have these very coalition MPs when the government comes with masks to the National Assembly. This duality is being fought by Slovenia, and I hope that this will end as soon as possible, that the state will not pay too much tax on such unrealistic government proposals and government blockades as are taking place in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The last of the panellists is Mr Ivan Škodnik, followed by a representative of the government and a representative of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport, all other colleagues and colleagues! I'm very happy today, actually, because apprenticeship is my theme. However, I once told this National Assembly that I was an apprentice from 1971 to 1974. However, I later worked in the economy for ten years when it was mentioned earlier that members of certain groups had no idea about the economy. I was also four principals at school and we even had an exchange of apprentices. The first such larger group in 2002 with the Austrians, ten apprentices were with us for three weeks and at the same time three weeks were ours in Austria. I have to say, that's when I got to know this Austrian model well. However, it is significantly different from German, so I cannot discuss anything there, but certainly the German is better, because it has been built for more than 50 years, and we can say that the Germans in Europe, as far as the economy is concerned, are certainly leading if they are not even leading the world. I am quite at the beginning when I listened to the discussions of my colleague Horvath, Mr Lisco, I agree, of course not in all things, but in many ways. We have debated this several times. I must say that even as far as colleague Tank is concerned, when he said that added value is produced in companies, factories, not cabinets, I agree. That's right. This is where it's coming from. But I can't agree with what you said, Tank, but we don't have the economic growth. But every day, or very often here in the National Assembly, we talk about what economic growth we have, so I cannot say here, we have economic growth and this government can boast about it. You have to admit that to me, Mr. Tanko. Now I would return to 2006 when so many times were said today, not to speak ill of the Yangtze government at the time, but even less of the Minister of Education, who was then Dr. Beast. I must say, I was a principal at the time, and I worked very well with Dr. Beast. We did a lot of things back then. But I will tell you what caused this dual system in 2006 that the minister was forced to abandon. You know what happened? At the beginning of 1996, when this system came to us when it came to life, there was enough money. But then he was missing, and he was getting less and less. I remember, in those years, parents would come to school and say that it had become unsustainable because employers wanted new internal contracts because they wouldn't pay travel costs, they wouldn't pay lunch, and they wouldn't even pay the prize. So, in fact, the public didn't even know what the real situation was. There was no money. That is why they were forced to end this system at the time and that it would have to be reassembled later. That is why this government and the Ministry of Education have now taken a slightly different approach to the new law. In July it sent a draft law on apprenticeship to the public debate. Why is that important now? It is important because the law deals with key issues of apprenticeship status: the rights and obligations of employers, schools, chambers and employers' associations and ministries. I'm just going to say something, we're this school model that's still running, and I have to say it's very good because we copied it from Scandinavians, Finns, not bad, we just don't have practical training in employers here, and practical training is very different by year or direction. But when we had an analysis of this system, when it came into existence this year's vocational education system or model, which was partly related to the economy, with practical training, we had a round table in the Zrečs and there were representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. And interestingly, when the system was in operation, an important economist or representative of the Chamber of Commerce said, "Yes, what is this system? Don't they come to employers for six months?" At that time, it was a system that had only 24 weeks in three years of practical training or up to 29 weeks in certain programmes such as innkeepers. At that time, it made it clear to me that the chambers of commerce spoke one thing, but when something was to be resolved systematically, they did not deepen and resolve systematically. And it wasn't Branko Meh that anyone thought, the current president of the Chamber of Commerce. I must say that I very much appreciate Mr Meh, because we have already done a number of things together, and on a number of points that he is proposing now and also requires in this draft law that he is preparing, I agree. I also agree with what was written in the Journal on 19 October on what Branko Meh, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, believes that Slovenian apprentices must be educated and employed in Slovenian companies. That's what we have to do. That is why we must move on to this problem and solve it in a pilot way, as this law is now being prepared by the Ministry of Education. This will be much easier because when this law is passed, I hope that it will be soon, there will be up to 200 apprentices enrolled in various programmes. Maybe less, but certainly not anymore. And it would be right that after three years of generation going through, an analysis is done to determine where the flaws are, in fact, to get rid of all the funding, the reward of all the stakeholders, then we can go along the path that the Germans are building now. Keep saying the German system is fine, but we don't even know it. I'm saying I don't know him as well as I do Austrian. But I knew Austrian very well. What's more, which is actually going to have to be looked at here. It will be necessary to analyse how many employers are able to carry out practical training. In doing so, I am primarily referring to educational education. Is there any indication of how many employers have this pedagogical education? We need to know that now the apprentice will come to the employer and learn practically, not train, and here the approach will be slightly different. This is going to have to be done, and it's not going through the night. According to my observations, according to the information I have, there seems to be very little of those who have these conditions. That's another thing. Renovation of programmes is based on a professional standard. We should first draw up a new professional standard and, on the basis of this, a new education programme. So there will have to be a lot of preparation here, I hope, I don't know that much, sometimes even the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education has been involved in this renovation. I hope it's on now and they'll do what they have to do here. What's it gonna be like with the study contracts? The problem is, will this contract be for all three years, or will it be with the employer individually for each year? Now it was very different interpretation. It will likely be left to schools or how they will find their way through current experiences. But what's the problem now? The problem is that we have big companies that specialize. Let's say I'm talking about the wood industry that I know a little bit more. Someone's only working from the Ivy Plates, some other piece of glue, some semi-produced stuff. If that apprentice learns practically for three years, that probably won't work. Contracts will probably also have to be arranged in such a way that they will be variable for all these apprentices to succeed. On the other hand, it is rewarding and all that is left for parents to be content. And one more thing, when it comes to this, I advise all schools to apply to this dual system only those who have multiple sections signed up to be one department, let's say a dual system, but it's certainly not good for those who have only one department in vocational schools. Then the students will be very in the dilemma, some of them will fit into the dual system, something into the school system, and then there can be problems and students, apprentices, whatever we call them, can't be test rabbits. We need to complete these things, and this is the right of the Ministry to regulate these matters systematically and I think that in a few years we will also have this model of apprenticeship in Slovenia, which will go on the road either Austria or Germany and in a few years we will certainly come to that place, when we can say we have good apprenticeships, we have a good economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrea Barle Lakota, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your word. I'd like to explain the difference first. We were wondering what the difference was. The difference in appearance looks small, but it's in the status of who the apprentice is, what his status is. I will say that the proposal that we are considering right now in Article 5 sets out that by concluding an apprentice-employee contract, a working relationship shall be concluded. Exactly that was the starting point for two and a half years of talks with the economy. When the economy said that it wanted apprenticeships because they thought they were essential for good skills, the Ministry of Education had carried out 2.5 years of activity, writing various articles relating to the status of apprentice, which was based on the fact that the apprentice was then in a working relationship. We were convinced that this was our common ground, we were convinced that this apprenticeship was the one that would open up new jobs, as you have repeatedly stressed today. After two and a half years, it turns out we just can't bring you the law. Why not? Because the economy claimed that this status was unacceptable to them. They felt that it was impossible even to sign those fundamental commitments for apprenticeships, which we have already told you about today, and that we must base our reflections on new foundations. This February we reopened our discussions with the economy, but what is the status that the economy could endure, so that we could propose to you an effective form of apprenticeship, not a law where we could not really exercise apprenticeship again, but you would say, yes, you were writing a marriage with a fig in your pocket. After several months of negotiation, we came back to the status where the apprentice is a student who occasionally works or occasionally engages in work. This status is extremely important for our employers, at least from the point of view of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The status has helped us to develop the Ministry of Labour, which has been involved in the drafting of the law. What's this all about? It is precisely that employers would not take over all these burdens, which you have already discussed, such as regressive claims and similar things. The Ministry is already paying all these burdens for those who only perform 24-hour, weekly training in the workplace. At this time, when we are committed and I agree, for the third time we have listened to your suggestions, your desire to intensify the Ministry's work. Believe me, it's not about not wanting to write articles, it's simply about constant coordination with partners without which the apprenticeship system is not possible. I have already given up on my own many times because I thought we were constantly thinking and returning to the zero point of origin, but we have now sent the law into interdepartmental coordination, where we hope that we have reached a fundamental consensus among the ministries, the Ministry of Economy, and the Ministry of Labour on how our burdens have been distributed. What are we going to do about this law? The basic starting point, as I said before, is different as regards the status compared to the proposal you submitted, because, as I said before, this starting point was rejected by employers, if it is too difficult, too burdensome, too severe for them. What do we do with this law now? We also regulate this law by allowing a greater number of weeks of teaching and then the relationship between employers and schools, including the part where new obligations are both for the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, the right way to integrate the economy into the relationship between school, apprentice and employer. Then I'd say the third thing the employers kept alerting us to. Employers said: "We need this law not only because of the competence, the qualifications of someone who can do something concrete, but mainly because of professional socialisation, it is also something we have discussed extensively and I hope we have now put it well. But what I'd still like to add is this. In fact, our proposal for a law also refers to the Slovenian Qualifications Framework. This is the law you passed last year and it's important to know. It is important to establish a relationship between the apprenticeship system and the SOK. Why? This is because it is a matter of questions as to how already employed or adults acquire additional qualifications. And today I will not be burdening this debate. The next thing I would like to stress is that our starting point is not to be new professional standards. Far from it. It will be the same professional standards and therefore new programmes will not be necessary, but only implementation plans to achieve this professional standard will be made. And to do that, we're gonna have to put in a little bit of work. True, you've mentioned the pilot project several times. This will be financed by cohesion policy, as we have informed you several times. This pilot project will certainly come to life, in fact, we already have all the certificates on the part of the European Commission. There we have also discussed precisely with employers the obligations and burdens that we would take on within the pilot project. Finally, let me say something else about the cooperation between education and the economy. However, I would also like to stress that the form of vocational education is indeed based on cooperation with the economy. The starting point is that the programme is built on a professional standard that employers practically do, and it is about not remembering and writing some programs. Cedefop already, this is an organisation that deals with vocational education, analysis of vocational education and so on has warned us from the very beginning that we should clearly define what apprenticeship is, how we understand it. You will not believe, in our debates, at least as far as I am involved, at this time it has turned out that our ideas on apprenticeship are very different. He also reminded us that, with the English term we translate into apprenticeship, the Scandinavian country really understands the school form, which is what we have today. I would just like to say once again that the question of apprenticeship is really complex, that the reasons why apprenticeship was then abolished or ceased to function on its own are very large that the secure economy of that time was not able to support it, and therefore it was extremely important for us to hear the economy, what is it that would be supported enough and could support this part of education that will now take over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Mrs. Barle, can you turn it off?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u198	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! First of all, I would like to thank the last two interlocutors for a rather constructive debate, not just because they said it wasn't just Dr. Beast who did it, but it was the situation that it was. The economy no longer saw the meaning of apprenticeship. Personally, I think that the last version that will be adopted will be ours, which obviously concludes its path today, or the one that will come from the government when it is drunk both within different ministries, probably not least within the various partial interests within the coalition, and when they have their desire to reunify on the one hand and on the other hand the craftsmen, that the law will be, I hope, in 70% of what we have here today before us. Because the extensions are very similar, but we know that the devil is always in detail. Even if these details are carried out precisely through the legislative process, it will still be possible in practice to listen to stories about bad employers, about bad apprentices and so on. But I believe that the desire of all of us is the same. This is also why in the last draft of the law we have tried to balance matters in some way by who has to give something and who also has some responsibility and that this introduction is much more gradual, that with 1. 9. 2017 we start even more than just with a pilot project, but by 2020 we will have a system that we will like, whether it will be a little different from Scandinavia or to neighbouring countries such as Germany and Austria. The only thing I would like from the Ministry is when today's debate was about how we are not in line with everyone, and on the other hand, we are always listening, that we will not all be able to reconcile ourselves, that, for the first time, that you will also coordinate with the opposition on such an important issue, and for the second time, that we will not be hearing too long about how it is being analyzed, how it is being talked about, but that the government, in this case in particular, will say enough debate, we will go with the procedure to Parliament and then to the final adoption. As I have already said, interdepartmental coordination is likely to show what today has shown that our proposal for a law has more questions than answers and that your law has even more questions than answers. And I'm afraid the more we spin this, the more we don't get through some sieve of smart decisions, the more we get away from the point. This is to link professional and professional education with desires, needs, if you want, craftsmen and economists, who in these countries I mentioned earlier, some developmental movement, but not some non-digestion, and that before the end of this term we will be able to adopt a luxuriant law and that, through this debate and adoption of legislation, we will also start to change our thinking that those who attend vocational and professional education are not worse off than various masters and doctors, but that they can get such a valid one through their professions, not least of the property status of such professions in comparable countries. Even though obviously today the law is ending our way, I like that we may have forced again not only the department, but all the other stakeholders we have talked about today to get the law as soon as possible, whether this is a special law on apprenticeship as the government is now preparing, or a law within the framework of a law that is already systemic. This is the law on vocational and professional education. Before I conclude, however, I hope that when we discuss the following budget rebalancings, that apprenticeship will not be pushed into some of these corners, when we say, they have enough of a million, two million, but if we know that we have talked about 70 million and more million today, then you will be as well-meaning as you are in today's statements, even when we decide on the financial structures of this area, that is, the fields of apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u200	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Of course, time has not yet run out, so I ask, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I thought it would be of greater interest, but much has already been said, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State.Today's debate has certainly opened a broader aspect of the educational field, not just the dual system, not just the apprenticeship. I can only ask myself, I'm not an expert in this field, we have a ministry for this, I'm just wondering what the education system will be like in six, seven or ten years. He'll probably be a whole lot different than he is today. To this we are simply forced by the situation in this globalised world and also Slovenia is part of this globalised world. This issue is also relevant in the face of an interesting claim that this year's first-graders will carry out professions, at least most of them, professions that we do not yet know today. And the next one, from practice, this one is more futuristic, but I'm sure it's realistic, and the next one is from practice, and young people tell me that some companies in Slovenia, when they go to an interview for employment, especially businesses in Europe, don't ask them which university they studied, which university they graduated from, but employers ask them what they know. Then they take three, four, five, six months to actually let the employer know if the employee was telling the truth. What does that mean? Does this mean that there will be no formal diplomas in the future? But these are just questions that have actually been implicitly open today. I may be going back a little bit to the previous term when we talked a lot about the education system on the European Union Affairs Committee that I led at the time, we talked about the Europe 2020 strategy, which also includes this apprenticeship alliance. At that time, we were somewhat impressed by the fact that Europe was promoting a dual system and that, in particular, Germany had a well-split system. Here, of course, I absolutely agree with my respectable colleague Škodnik, and we are here on one side, as we say, shoulder to shoulder, to promote this system. Germany is also prepared to assist Member States in establishing this apprenticeship system. I believe it's not just about writing the law, it's what everyone would know to write in one week, but that there are quite a few stakeholders here, and we all have to get consent. Solutions must be acceptable to all. This issue was already addressed by the European Economic and Social Committee in May 2013, which adopted some guidelines, some perspectives and defined the challenges of dual systems in Europe. Europe today is fully justified in all its hopes for the promotion and development of a dual education system. Or even Slovenia? My debate is intended solely to encourage this thinking, not just to think, but also to realize it. This is what we urgently need. Look, we've been talking about this in Europe for three years, and some of them are doing what they're doing. Therefore, it is on the hand that Member States that have long-term focus on this system have good results. Yes, colleague Škodnik, Germany, we were there, a group of friends, and we saw what results they had. These countries can boast of the level of youth unemployment, which is well below the average of the European Union. This is why we are talking about young people, employment of young people. I don't think we have much time, we have to catch up on our developmental backlog as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 19.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u203	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Bill on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u204	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. The content of this amendment is to extend the range of commitments that are subject to the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, namely the breeding or sale of breeding animals. Here we have in mind mainly the reselling of tribal horses. We are convinced that there is a number of arguments that this segment is subject to the law on money laundering and terrorism. Above all, practices from the United States of America and Europe suggest that there is a high risk that such sales, as in the case of sales of art, gold, diamonds, may lead to the concealment of the origin of money or the prevention of money laundering. A lot of arguments on our part have already been made on the financial and monetary committee. We are particularly disappointed by the arguments provided by the Secretary of State, because we cannot accept these arguments, at least in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as credible. However, we hope that the lack of support for this amendment, as announced by the coalition at today's plenary session, is no reason why one of the members or members of the ministerial assembly or of the closer kinship is supposed to be engaged in the sale of noble horses.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u205	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[And against the 44th.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the amendment has not been adopted for the second reading of the amendment to supplement the proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill was not harmonised. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 votes in favour and none in favour. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[And no one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 15. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 49 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[And no one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 15 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[And no one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A proposal for a law amending the Law on Social Security Benefits is appropriate for further consideration. Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will support our proposal for a law, as it represents an immediate solution to one of the biggest social states' social anomalies in our country. Its immediate adoption, however, means an integrated solution to this issue. The key and main solutions to this law are as follows. It is proposed that the Social Security Benefits Act delete the provisions setting out the registration of the prohibition on the disposal and loading of immovable property for recipients of financial social assistance and a security allowance and the obligation to recover the social benefits received from the recipient of social assistance for social benefits. I ask the coalition and all Members and Members of Parliament to confirm this proposal in this first reading, as it is possible to finalize it further with the amendments so that we are all satisfied and, above all, that the citizens and citizens affected by this problem will be satisfied. That is why I am counting on today's will to come together and to take a real step towards people, but not that we are flirting here, but because of prestige, our marriage is being rejected over and over and over again. I look forward to today's support for all Members of Parliament and Members, and this time, of course, I am also thinking about the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u207	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 18 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is appropriate for further consideration. Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, President. We will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is already the third version of the law in this area in this mandate. With this proposal, we followed those last corrections and the proposals made by the representatives of both the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and some representatives in the educational system. We have re-shared how rewards would be financed and the rest of funding, and we also include adults or older ones and give them the opportunity to participate in this dual school education system as well. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we know that the current school system is not sufficient to prepare staff, especially those in technical directions for the needs of the labour market. Finally, the aim of the education system is that the staff come with adequate knowledge, both practical and theoretical, to the labour market, and that employers do not then have additional costs, so that the staff, who are theoretically well-sufficient, do not report this to our educational system at their own expense, is said to be properly prepared in practical work. We believe that this law follows these needs, so, as I have already said, we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u209	Mr Ivan Škodnik has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We will not support the proposal for amendments to the Act on Vocational and Professional Education, proposed by the SDS, in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre. This is because the Government or the Ministry of Education and Sport is preparing a new system law that will solve the field of apprenticeship in the long term and gradually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u211	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 16 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The new Slovenia, of course, supports this agreement. It is an extremely important organisation, it is the European Space Agency and we hope that the Slovenian economy will benefit greatly from this agreement. On this occasion, however, we have always been in favour of such agreements, which are good for Slovenian economic operators. Last March, I gave the Government the initiative to start the process of joining Slovenia into the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, CERN Geneva. This has also come true this year, thank God. However, I would like to protect the Foreign Policy Committee in some way from this place. This Agreement or the National Assembly with regard to the conclusion of this Agreement has not been duly informed. This is what we have pointed out at the meeting itself, and the proposal for an agreement has never been given an initiative on the Foreign Policy Committee. The custom, not the custom, is a legal provision resulting from the fifth paragraph of Article 70 of the Law on Foreign Affairs, in order for the Government to present the initiative to the National Assembly first. You weren't there. There have been a number of other questions, but now that there is an explanation for the vote, I cannot do that, I must not abuse the rules of procedure. I miss government representatives here now. It is true, however, that we received four and a half responses this morning to my intervention on the Foreign Policy Committee report, responses from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and also in the Foreign Policy Committee secretariat, we have requested these answers, signed by Minister Restovalšek, all of you, in order to better decide on this ratification law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u213	The explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group shall be mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening! Ratification of the Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency is a step towards full membership of our country in this agency. It also strengthens cooperation with other European countries in space research and technology and its use in space for peaceful purposes. Closer cooperation with the European Space Agency is a concrete contribution to the implementation of the strategic direction of the Republic of Slovenia from 2014 to 2020. Also the objectives set by the Smart Specialisation Strategy. The minimum fee contribution shall open access to programmes, equipment, education and information of the European Space Agency for Slovenia and, in particular, for enterprises producing high value-added technology products. The experiences of other countries are very positive and encouraging for Slovenia to insist on full membership. Let me just mention that the proven minimum return on membership between two and seven times paid the membership fee. Since we believe in the potential for space exploration and the development of space technologies, we will support the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-20-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u215	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
