ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Vojka Shergan, mag. Bojana Muršić, Violeta Tomić, Mr Marjan Dolinšek, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mr Primož Hainz from 20:00 on, Mr Jan Škoberne, Mr Jožef Horvat from 15:00 on, etc. Franz Ducky. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on Income. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, the Group of 10 Members and Members of Parliament are the first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues. The amount of general relief is currently set in Article 111 of the Income Act as a reduction of the annual tax base of EUR 2 000 800 per year. In addition to this level of general relief, a reduction of the annual tax base of EUR 3 000 19 per year is recognised for persons with income of up to EUR 10 000 200 under the law. A further reduction of the annual tax base of thousands of euros per year is recognised for persons with income between EUR 10,000 and EUR 11 000 800. Article 118 of the Income Law empowers the Minister to coordinate the amounts of general relief in accordance with the economic policy of the Government. The existing regulation for 2015 provides for a general relief of 3 000 302 euros. For two additional classes, an additional general relief of €3 000 217, or €115. This arrangement is marked by a step-by-step general relief, which brings problems to the system. With this bill, Christian Democrats propose to increase the overall relief to EUR 7 000 at the annual level, which should be uniform for all debtors. With this simple measure, we can achieve more positive effects. The Slovenian tax environment is extremely unfriendly, both for residents and for companies. We propose a change to the general income relief because we want to relieve the high tax burden on the taxpayers and consequently improve the environment for the development of economic activities. The government says that the increase in general economic relief does not directly affect the economy. However, let me point out that the higher overall relief increases the net salary of employees, which in our view is a direct impact on improving the business environment. The increase in net income from the debtors will also stimulate demand, which will lead to higher consumption and thus increase the value added tax spill. The positive consequences of the higher demand will, of course, also be felt by the Slovenian economy. The bill also proposes the abolition of the so-called step-by-step general relief. With a single increase to €7,000 in general relief, the situation has already improved for groups of low-income debtors. Moreover, a step-by-step general relief allows for absurd situations in which a person can only be punished for a few euros with much less overall relief and a few hundred euros higher income. Debtors with lower incomes will still be treated much more favourably than those with higher incomes despite a single overall relief in percentage terms. EUR 7 000 of general relief for income is a much higher percentage of relief than, for example, for income of EUR 30 000. By doing so, we simplify the regime and at the same time improve the situation of all. One of the main objectives of the new law is to raise the net income of socially weak taxpayers for income. As an important effect of this new law, I should also point out the solution to the problem of so-called migrant workers, as the increased overall relief eliminates the need to pay for high income differences in Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in Nova Slovenija we are responsible for the state of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, as you recall that we have confirmed the Fiscal Rule Act. This law, which we propose, enters into force 1. 1. 2018, so in a year for which we do not yet have a budget. Today we really want and expect a constructive debate. The law is very simple, it has two articles. So we're talking about 7 grand, whether it's optimal or not optimal. If it's not optimal, then what's the alternative? I think today's debate can be extremely focused and we can come up with a good common solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u3	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government adopted a written opinion on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Act. In its decision, the Government emphasises that we cannot support the proposal for a law. The proposal does address the objectives and objectives of the Government with its actions or proposals for action, and with these measures we also want to support the possibility of further stable economic growth. However, changes in the area of public charges, in addition to improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment, must also ensure stable and predictable public financial revenues. The government estimates that the proposed solution to the increase of the overall relief to EUR 7 000 would result in a shortfall in revenue in the state budget for around EUR 490 million. The proposal would have a practical impact on all debtors applying a general benefit, and these are more than 98% of all taxpayers for income — I am talking about data for the year 2014, and data for 2015 have not yet been statistically processed. The proposed solution, which is based on the reduction of taxes on work, as already mentioned, does not directly represent a burden on the economy, as it is a solution that increases the individual’s available income but does not affect the employer’s gross obligation. The latter could have consequences for increasing private consumption, including slightly higher VAT revenues. The impact on private consumption by decommissioning taxpayers on income has the greatest impact in lower income classes, which are more liquidity-bound than other income classes and spend all the added income on consumption. Assuming that those in lower income classes would devote the entire burden to consumption, we estimate that VAT revenues could increase by a maximum of EUR 20 million. So there are 470 million steps left to be addressed. The fact is also that the largest share of the labour burden in Slovenia is social security contributions, which shows that appropriate solutions will have to be sought in these compulsory social insurance systems. While data show that Slovenia is 37% of GDP for Slovenia following tax burdens and contributions under the EU average, which is 40% of GDP for 2014 and 37% for Slovenia. However, the economic structure of taxes is quite unfavourable as it deviates from the average of European countries due to the over-average burden of work and the under-average burden of capital and property. However, in this area it is also necessary to look more closely at what is the over-average burden of work, in which segments and also to answer the question whether there is a burden on income or social security contributions. Of course, we want to reduce the key over-average burdens and thus boost economic growth, and the government's current activities are also geared towards reducing labour burdens as a factor that has the most negative impact on competitiveness and at the same time poses an important obstacle to further economic growth. However, once again, I stress that the measures must be balanced and consistent with our public financial capabilities, and not least with the government's commitments to a stable and sustainable public financial policy. If I conclude, in view of all the above, the Government cannot support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u6	Nice greetings, respectable presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The burden of labour costs is a topic that we keep talking about. It's too bad we're just talking, but nothing happens. The restructuring of tax burdens is also a topic that we have been discussing a lot over the past two years and unfortunately nothing happens. The fact is, with such economic growth, with such revenues as the Government and the ruling coalition today available, if I may say so, you need to find a place to relieve work, thereby increasing consumption and further strengthening economic growth. The State Secretary said that we do not need large studies to find out where Slovenia is retreating. One is after the heavy burden of work and the other after the low burden of capital or property. So we have solutions on the table, all we have to do is take them away. As for the specific proposal of New Slovenia, I will say the following. There are things where, according to my assessment of New Slovenia, we will never find a common word — human rights and equality for all. When we talk about the economy and the necessary measures, I am sure and can say that the ideas and laws of New Slovenia, which it brings to the National Assembly, are in fact what Slovenia needs. A concrete proposal to raise the €7,000 relief, hand to heart, I think that because of the fiscal stability of our country, it is somewhat unrealistic, but far from implying that there is no need for change in this income scale. Therefore, the Members of our Group will support the proposal in the first reading. I will now use the words that my colleague used on a committee earlier: Let us step together and find solutions that are feasible and will have a positive impact on everyone, people, the economy and the whole country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! In the SMC Group, this proposal, which came to the table, is appreciated because we believe that at least in some way it contributes to this reflection that we have set ourselves on the restructuring of the tax burdens in the Republic of Slovenia. The added plus that we are counting here is that someone who somehow participated at the time when it was adopted also assesses that maybe at the time the solution was not so good, and decides, raises his voice and says that it is time to change it. It also says in a way that we can talk about, but we certainly appreciate it. But if we move on. With regard to sensefulness, it is certainly a solution to one of the injustices that occurred in the tax system. This one was welcome when she introduced herself. Why? Because when such a solution is introduced, a step - long general relief, it leads to those in individual classes, especially those with lower incomes – we have two additional classes, for those with the lowest income – higher relief or recognition. At the time this was introduced, it was probably also due to the beginning of a difficult situation that began to happen to us at that time, that was good. The problem in this work begins only later. It is said to be somewhat unfair in its origin, but actual problems arise later. We also saw this much more clearly when we reached the minimum wage or in the allowances that belong to this, when some of our citizens and citizens paid the same or slightly higher wages due to these supplements, which were not currently part of the minimum, but were added to them, came into a situation where they could also, at the end of the day, exceed the level that was envisaged for the increased relief and paid more than 10, if not even more than 100 Euros of income. And this is what I mentioned earlier, that it is some kind of injustice of the system. There will certainly be some reflection on how to approach this problem in the future and overcome it or put in place a more just system. But if we go to other things now, as far as this is concerned, what does such a serious measure mean? Why serious? Because most of us sitting here certainly have a total relief of EUR 3 000 300, some others, as previously said, up to EUR 6 000 500. However, when this general relief rises to as high as EUR 7 000 and we start to calculate somehow, we find that the effect on the tax box may be greater than anyone could have imagined. In a specific case, we received a number from the Ministry of Finance, which is close to half a billion euros. This means a lot to public finances. In addition to being very significant in terms of the common dimension, it also means, from one other point of view, that income is one of the key sources of community power. We can say that about half of this income is spent on municipalities. It is the congregations who, on the other hand, benefit from looking at those who have the lowest income and who have difficulty coming through the month. We're talking about kindergartens, we're talking about nursing homes, we're talking about some of the other social transfers that they're receiving. If this source were to fall, we would also be in a situation where we might actually get a few more euros and, on the other hand, at monthly level, we could pay 50, 100, 200 euros more for kindergarten. So in a difficult situation, especially those with young children — since congregations play an important role in kindergartens — such as those with low incomes and older ones in a family who are in a retirement home. When these co-financing shares were reduced, in our view they would be placed in a more difficult position. What we would therefore like to draw attention to is, above all, that when we talk about solutions in this area, perhaps the rest of the consequences arising from the current structure of the budget and transfers are taken into account in a slightly broader way. If we were to process that supplement concerning assistance to those with the lowest supplements, I would point out the following matter. Those with the highest income would gain almost EUR 2 000 per year in this particular case, if we made it easier to raise to EUR 7 000. For those with the lowest income, however, they would somehow find that at the annual level they would have only maybe €70, which amounts to about €6.5 per month, differences on their payroll. And that's exactly what we have to look at in terms of how much a kindergarten costs, how much a retirement home costs, how many other transfers we have. The Republic of Slovenia is the end of the social states. Finally, here we discussed the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where 1.4 billion, 65 million more for 2016. Such a fallout, with municipalities playing an important role in these specific social transfers and, as I mentioned earlier, in the homes for pensioners and kindergartens, would therefore be significant. So our view is somehow that we see this as an interesting initiative, in this view, when we talk mainly about the restructuring of tax burdens, when we talk about how wages are overtaxed, but in some other areas, at least statistically speaking, lower taxes, for this reason we are talking only about the restructuring of tax burdens. From here on out, we have also repeatedly said that we would like more to be done in the area of improving the collection of these taxes, there have also been several steps here, and also in the area of reducing administrative burdens, there have been several steps here. I think that this added value is at least in terms of when we talk about excise legislation lately, when we talk about customs legislation, when we talk about the Tax Procedure Act and so on. This all helps in some way the economy, perhaps more than such a change. For these reasons, we will not support this proposal in the SMC Group of Members, but we will take it into account when it continues to work, because it has this solution, as you yourself have warned, which has been in law since 2008, one of the mistakes which does not affect the tax system or is not good for the tax system, and that is that it can be considered unjust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the SDS municipal committee, already here on the balcony, all warmly greeted! We are looking at the Income Act with a proposal for a change that would have an impact on almost one million taxpayers for income, which means almost half of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have repeatedly warned that we are a country with too much taxes and, above all, that wages are substantially overtaxed. For everyone, it's just what they get a month on their own account. Of course, with high wage contributions, we also pay the value added tax in each purchase, and it is not negligible that fixing the value added tax to 22%, which happened at the time of Cerara's Government, is to the detriment of all of us, except, of course, at the expense of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. What we receive in return for our taxes and contributions was discussed here in this National Assembly a short time ago. Of course, if this country spent more money on investment, which would mean development in our country, which would be a start-up for the economy, which would, of course, also mean new jobs, and if, on the other hand, citizens and citizens were provided with really good quality services by public institutions, probably none of us would be asking what it gives to the country and what it gets in return. But unfortunately the truth isn't always so positive and so optimistic. We have long waiting lines in health care, but when we need some services from administrative authorities, we have to pay administrative fees and so on. Slovenia is an extremely indebted country, but it is painful that it is not in charge of investment, but in the past it has been in charge mainly of preserving social peace and, last but not least, the rehabilitation of the banking system. There are almost no new investments in Slovenia. With the taxpayer's money, we saved the banks. Today the banks have money, but unfortunately the banks do not lend to the economy, and of course the economy does not invest in us. Even some individuals who have money prefer to invest in neighbouring countries. And foreign investors don't come to us, very rarely, but lately they're more or less gone. Where are the reasons for this? There's more than one reason. One of them is also a politically unstable environment, which has resulted in the fact that legislation changes too often. Remember 2012, when we reduced the corporate income tax. The change was gradual, with the aim of reducing the tax to 15%. Then came the new government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, and stopped at 17%. This change has been made precisely because of attracting investors, but precisely because of the changing legislation so quickly or perhaps because governments change very often, investors simply do not trust in us. Of course that's not the only reason. We still have very difficult or poor environmental and construction legislation, more so-called legislation, procedures running a time frame. As has already been said, wages are substantially overtaxed. The proposed amendment to the Income Act, which is ahead of us, will not save what I just said. It means that half of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be left in the account every year with something more, which is extremely important. Increasing the overall relief from the current EUR 2 000 800 to EUR 7 000 is a reduction in the tax base. What is essential has already been exposed, namely the abolition of a so - called step-by-step general relief, which would be very important, for it often happens that because of a slightly higher salary – when the employer is happy, if you get a higher salary – then it falls into the higher income class and generally summa summarum at the end of the year is not rewarded, but even damaged. We are aware that this proposed amendment would mean a smaller inflow into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, it is a fact that if individuals received more in the account or were left with more each year, they would, of course, also spend more. I cannot agree with the Secretary of State that this difference would be so negligible. I believe that, above all, the value added tax would be significantly higher and that the difference would be significantly smaller. Of course, it is also not negligible that by raising general relief, at least partially eliminate the differences in income payments to all those who go to work daily, for example, in neighbouring Austria. We have not found solutions for them to this day, more than obviously you do not intend to, not least because of the very attitude of the Prime Minister of the Government towards these migrant workers, who, not long ago in Murska Sobota, has been very ignorant of them. The Ministry of Finance stands for the view that everyone living in Slovenia must be subject to the same tax on income. Given that wages are substantially lower in the neighbouring country of Austria or that higher taxation classes are significantly higher, at least part of the problem would be solved. But the most important thing is to gain half of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is particularly important for those who are already so socially weak. We must not forget that in Slovenia, despite all the praises and statistics, we still have 290,000 people below the poverty threshold. This proposed solution may not be optimal, but it may still be finalized in the course of the debate of the legal procedure itself, but we believe that the basic purpose of this proposal is good, so this proposal will be supported in the first reading by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u11	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Let me briefly present to you the position of the Desus Group on the amendment of the Income Act. It is true that the applicant has been working for some time and is working in some way towards tax reform with such or other measures, but without success. I appreciate the proposal, I appreciate my colleague Horvath, I also appreciate the efforts and efforts, I believe they are sincere. However, I cannot, of course, appreciate it, and in the Desus Group we do not support the bill before us. I'll try to explain briefly. It must, of course, be acknowledged that these attempts are in some way liked, in some way properly justified, but for us, Members of the Desus Group and Members of the Desus Group, the fact that they do not reflect the arrangements that we believe would be in favour of a fair and equitable distribution of the tax burden. This is also a key reason why we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Already in the last amendment of the income legislation before the end of 2015, we decided in Desus or made our position clear. We demanded that the fourth income class, which is taxed at 50% of the tax rate, be unconditionally maintained and that the income scale be transformed in a way that would be tax-effective for the middle population. We still believe that it is right that there is a progressive tax burden, i.e. that those who earn the most or most proportionally annually contribute more or most to the state treasury or are more and more taxed. However, we do not support solutions in such a way that the bulk of the tax burden falls on the shoulders of those who already have difficulty connecting the month to the month. That is why we find the proposed solution inappropriate and unfair. The introduction of a single general tax relief of EUR 7 000 per year is certainly not fair to all taxpayers for a very simple reason because all taxpayers do not receive the same annual amount of their income or income and do not have the same social status as the same. In this place, we are even more critical in our parliamentary group until the proposed abolition of the additional relief for two groups of lower-income debtors. As I have already said, the social status, the social position of an individual is the most important factor in the formulation of income and also of broader fiscal legislation. In particular, we are lacking in this proposal in more precise, more detailed financial calculations due to the fall in income from the budget of the less collected income. The proposers did not even present an approximate assessment. They listed only annual revenues for the debtors and – I will say this – theoretically potential positive effects due to possible increased private consumption, which we estimate in our group is not enough. We must not shift or think that there will be no negative financial implications for the budget. Bodo. The extent to which the State Treasury will suffer and where such an exit will be replaced remain open issues. Something will run out — where will we replace it? At least the draft law does not provide answers by the proposer. In our view, financial impacts are still an important factor for the economic justification and eligibility of the proposed change. It is necessary to know that when someone needs to be given something, of course, that money will not be given. The proposer made a relatively good use of this option and asked for an answer for this competent ministry. The latter, in some way, provided for the negative financial consequences of increasing the overall relief to EUR 7 000 when the additional general relief was lifted. The assessment has risen, you will not believe, to almost half a billion euros for the unequal treatment of the debtors. Half a billion euros means – by the way – one third of the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities, which it devotes throughout the year for so-called transfers to individuals and households. Our pensioners and also some other targeted population could afford this money, there would be no question of coordination of transfers, no housing subsidies would be put into question, no subsidies would be put into question for lunches, no lunches, no mention of how much we could fill in with this. In the Desus Group, we are also surprised that the applicant is likely to leak such important information on purpose. I don't know, I've already made a lot of arguments, and I think that in all the enthusiasm for a better tomorrow, for healthy finances and for the perspective of all target groups, even the most vulnerable, something is, of course, to be taken away. Desus' point of view is that such an unselective approach is not good. Because of all the amendments and additions to the Income Act mentioned above, we will not support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u13	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, which has been tabled by Members and Members of the New Slovenia Parliamentary Procedure, is in fact identical to the Economic Programme of the Social Democrats, where we anticipate a rise in general tax relief to the level of annual minimum wage. For we do not think it appropriate that, in a society where we consider minimum wage to be the amount of income that still allows at least the most basic decent life, we burden those who do not reach this threshold with income. The difference between this law that we are considering today and our economic programme is that, of course, this law is not balanced within public finances and, of course, in our programme, we are also proposing solutions to replace such a failure due to the burden on the work of beneficiaries or debtors with other resources. Otherwise, the very concept of progressive tax, which is income, is intended to place a higher burden on people with higher incomes with a higher share of tax so that people with lower incomes can pay less. Right here is the role of the country or, if you want, the role of policy to try to achieve the necessary balance that can also ensure the normal functioning of the country. Above all, in this respect, we must also have before the eyes of the public service, which is also financed through public benefits. Many of them are intended for people with low incomes. If we look at the data, we can find that for almost 20% of the beneficiaries, the aid from the budget represents almost 60% of their revenues. So this is a very important source for a large number of people. With regard to the issue of income, we must also be aware of the fact that income is divided – about half goes into the state budget and about half into municipal budgets. Therefore, if we are talking about the EUR 490 million reduction in budget revenues, about 200 million less will come into the municipal budgets. If we remember the debates we had and have them on average, where the municipalities point out that they already cannot provide enough resources to carry out all their tasks under the law, this is a question which, of course, this law does not solve. The fact is also that it is precisely because there is no proposal to replace this source in fact – whether it is possible to increase the corporate income tax, which is among the lowest in Europe in Slovenia, and so on – of course this law is very difficult to see as a law suitable for adoption. Because of these facts, because the adoption of this law would lead to a very large imbalance, both in the municipal and state budgets, we will not, of course, support this law or feel that it is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, I think it is right to warn and recall that, at the time the fiscal rule was entered into the Constitution, such laws that prevent the balance of public finances should not at all come into the procedure of the National Assembly, from respect for the Constitution or the entry of a fiscal rule into the Constitution. If this was one of the priorities, then it should be borne in mind that all other legislation relating to taxes should also take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. The proposal of Christian Democrats refers to a real problem, but it solves it in a way that is not socially fair. If this proposal were adopted, some minimum wage would increase by 6.4 euros per month and pay the bank's director by 154 euros per month. If this proposal had been adopted, the budget would have lost 470 million euros or a quarter of all income. In fact, the problem can be solved in a way that does not favour people with the highest wages and that would not affect the budget. This solution is simple. The same general relief for all debtors shall be introduced while at the same time a tightening of the income scale for high-paying debtors shall be introduced. Step-by-step relief is a kind of social adjustment so that low-wage workers have a higher net salary, but it has a built-in error that causes absurd effects. It can happen that someone who earns 10,000 euros a year gross or a little over paid 330 euros more in income than they would have paid if they had earned 2 euros less. In practice, this happens if the worker has a lot of overtime or extras for Sunday work. In this case, even after payment of income, it is worse than it would have been if I hadn't done these overtimees. Yeah, we got a real problem to deal with. This problem needs to be addressed, but not in the proposed way that would be disastrous for public finances today. The proposed solution, as it is said, is not fair. It is privileged to pay high wages, which is evident at first sight. Relief for low-income workers and low-retirement pensioners is currently €6,000 520 per year. Their annual relief would only increase by €480 after this proposal. So at least 298,000 people would get the lowest income. A little more, but still a little, would have won those who have an interim relief of 4 000 € 419. These are, according to the Ministry of Finance, 103 000, and they are still people with less than 1,000 euros in gross wages. Everyone else would have gained more, but far away they would have gained the highest wages that are classified in the highest income class. In the United Left, we have also developed a simulation that shows how many categories we would acquire. The net minimum wage would only be increased by €6.41 per month, and the wage of a worker with a thousand euros of gross wages by €34.41 per month. On the other hand, we have, for example, a high government official with 3,000 960 euros in wages. This would earn EUR 126.33 per month by a new relief. A member of the NLB administration to give another case, which has 10,000 euros in salary, would draw an extra 154 euros a month. If we look at the annual level, the worker with the minimum wage would get the bad 77 euros, and someone sitting on the board of a bank would get a thousand 848 euros. The executive directors of the bad bank and directors of private companies, who also receive more than 15,000 or 20,000 euros a month's salary, would have gained significantly more if we were not even talking about allowances and dividends here. In short, this proposal is highly privileged to those who have been paid the best in our society. The higher he pays, the bigger he gets. Of course, the United Left does not support such social criminal solutions. Another problem with this solution is that by applying it, income would be reduced by just one quarter. Last year, 2 billion euros in income were collected for the poor. According to the government's assessment, such a change would reduce income by up to €490 million, says the government's poor half billion. Applicants assume that this failure would partially compensate with an increase in consumption, but this compensation would in fact be minimal. And the reason for that is that force is simple. It would make it easier for the high-paying debtors to be the ones that they usually invest most in banks, securities and so on. Therefore, the value added tax revenue would increase by only EUR 20 million according to the government's assessment, so that would still be EUR 470 million for the budget. This is a catastrophic figure because we are literally talking about the assassination of public finances, and this is when we are facing the greatest reduction in deficits and public debt. But this is not the only and probably not the last such proposal of Christian Democrats. We also have the Social Security Contributions Act under consideration. Under the most unfavourable scenario, the adoption of the NSI proposal would result in a health and pension cash flow of as much as EUR 977 million, which is said to be a poor billion. Taking into account compensation for other taxes, the net loss on public finances would be EUR 826 million. If we sum up the combined impact of both Christian Democrats' proposals, we see that we would lose one billion 296 million euros a year. This is more than 15% of last year's budget revenue, given that we have a billion-dollar hole in the pension register and that even a health treasury does not actually meet the needs of the population as it should be. We probably all, apart from the proposaler, are aware of what the decline of €1.3 billion in public finances would mean, because it is quite reasonable in itself. But we can also look back on a historical case that we all know. In 1996, employers' contributions to pension insurance were reduced. As a result, the pension register lost more than 12 billion potential revenues by 2014. Drnovšk's government paid for the loss of work by paying taxes on paid salaries. Well, this tax on paid wages was then abolished by the first Yangtze government with Bajuk's tax reform. The total effect on paid salaries was around EUR 4 billion, it is said to have compensated about 58% of the pension surplus. But this compensation, thanks to Bajuk's reform since 2009, is no longer available. The consequences are well known. In 2014, €1.3 billion had to be paid from the budget to the pension fund. Taking into account all the remaining payments, we see that today almost 30% of pensions are not paid from social contributions but from the budget. Since the proposed colleague Horvat likes to talk about bank hole drills, there is a comment here that Christian Democrats are the main drillers of the pension and fiscal hole. In addition to the abolition of the tax on paid wages, I can also list a reduction in the rate of corporate income tax, first with the 2006 reform, then with the ZUJF, and of course a reduction in income and the deduction of income from capital in 2006. It must be admitted, however, that Karl or his pensioner were present all the time. Any continuation of this policy, which would reduce the revenue of the budget and the social treasury by EUR 1.3 billion, constitutes a total destruction of the social state. The result would be that Slovenia slips into a neoliberal model, for example known in the United States of America. The public health system and state pensions are the minimum for the poor, everyone else is using commercial insurance systems. We get social apartheid – social for the poor and private social state for the wealthy. Applicants assume that companies would employ more because of lower taxes. These promises are not even realized in textbooks, let alone in practice. While the increase in general relief would not reduce labour costs directly, it would probably reduce them indirectly. Employers would benefit from a net minimum wage increase in collective negotiations to reduce gross wages, so this measure can also be seen as another measure to reduce labour costs. Nevertheless, I would not have achieved the desired effects. The school economy already knows that the impact of reducing taxes on growth and employment is short-term. It also knows that the decline in GDP due to the decline in public consumption is higher than the increase due to the reduction of taxes, so that, over the long term, the reduction in taxes does not contribute to growth and employment. This was last confirmed by the study of Natasha Jemec and co-authors published by Banka Slovenije in 2013. If I quote the main point: "Once-on-going changes in national consumption and taxes in Slovenia are expected to have a short-term effect and cannot be used to accelerate longer-term economic activity." If we want further validation in practice, we can look at Romania and Bulgaria. Romania has the third lowest level of income in the EU. Since 2004, the highest rate has been 16%, and Bulgaria's absolute record in this area, where income was last reduced in 2007, is now the highest rate of 10%. However, we all know that both of these countries have an average level of employment, despite the fact that a large part of the working population is being evicted from abroad. Of course, I am not saying that all of this is only because of low taxes, but I say that low taxes do not help, which, finally, can be confirmed by the users of the services of the Romanian and Bulgarian social states. But we probably don't want to slip to the level of Romania and Bulgaria. Not all tax reductions since 2006 in Slovenia, which I mentioned earlier, have contributed to employment and development. Between 2005 and 2008, 66,000 jobs were created, but not because of low taxes, but because of the EUR 13 billion of credit that our companies leased abroad. By 2013, all these jobs had been lost and another 20,000 jobs had been lost. The United Left would solve the problem of step-by-step relief by introducing a single overall relief but, at the same time, tightening the tax rate. In addition, income from capital needs to be taxed fairly again. It is unacceptable that a worker who owns 5 shares has the same dividend tax as a director who owns 5% of the company’s shares. This is what we differ from the Government, from Christian Democrats and Social Democrats, who propose unloading the upper middle class. We are asking the Socialists to contribute according to their capabilities. And more than we will have progressive fair taxes such as income, there will be less unfair taxes such as excise duties on petrol and electricity or VAT and so on. As we look at the comparison of Slovenia with other countries, we point out that Slovenia is not only under the EU average of capital taxes, but on its tail, it is based on both the share of these taxes and the size of the tax base in terms of gross social product. That is why we are also advocating a higher corporate income tax and such a property tax, which will tax higher owners with more property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The management of tax policy is one of the major responsibilities of the state. Taxes in some ways constitute an infringement of the individual's property rights and therefore the tax system must be set up in a smart and proportionate manner and the use of the collected money must be transparent and rational. In view of Slovenian reality, we seem to have major problems with all of these. With the proposal for a new Law on Income in Nova Slovenije, we are pursuing the objective of a more favourable tax environment for all debtors. In the face of various high taxes in the Republic of Slovenia, the citizens are, in our firm belief, overly taxed. This also has negative effects on the business environment in our country, so we are proposing a higher single overall relief for all taxpayers for income of €7,000. It currently amounts to 3,000,302 euros. The government has, of course, reacted negatively to our proposal somewhat. When we open a debate in Nova Slovenija on tax burden reduction, we never find on the government's side a hearing for the realisation of our proposals. On the other hand, it is often not difficult for the Government to find some 100 million euros in talks with Mr Struklje. However, it is worth noting that in explaining the financial impact of the general relief, the Government did not provide information on how many of these 980 thousand taxpayers have a tax base of 0. At the time of adoption of the bill, we could also consider reducing the wages of public servants, since in this case their net wages will be higher and therefore gross wages could be reduced. In doing so, it is worth stressing that this bill would increase the net wages of all employees, both those in the public sector and those in the private sector. The Ministry of Finance has been promising this for some time. At the same time, higher net salaries for employees would improve the business environment for economic operators. The Law also eliminates absurd step-by-step general relief. This can lead to a situation in which a person has to pay a single euro to raise his salary, at the same time paying a slightly higher income of EUR 100. Due to the non-competitive regulation of income legislation compared to Austria, we have a particular problem in Slovenia with so-called migrant workers. The problem posed by this has been tried by different governments in various ways, all unsuccessful. As we know, all of this has led to all the known referendum dispute now being resolved by the Constitutional Court. Today, the new Slovenia has come before Parliament with a simple and effective solution to the problem. An increase of €7 000 in general income allowance would eliminate the need for migrant workers to pay high income in the Republic of Slovenia and at the same time bring us closer to the rationality of the Austrian regime. However, we are open in New Slovenia for possible additions in the next reading. In Novi Slovenije we will be supporting the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Income Protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word is Micah Kordish. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. In intervention, I'd argue with the government's opinion. When we look at comparisons of wage taxation, as stated by the Government, we find that the government manipulates these data. On its website, the OECD compares, free of charge, common taxation on average, showing the following. The total burden in Slovenia is 42.7%, said to be lower than all neighbouring countries, even in the Czech Republic there is only a slight higher burden than in Slovakia, where this tax is 41.3%. In short, this mantra on overworked salaries, on higher taxes, on high taxes, and so on is short-lived. However, if we look at employees with dependent children, we find that the Slovenian salary is burdened less than all the countries mentioned. For example, the difference between Slovenia and Austria is at 15 percentage points, which means that we are a cost-competitive country, which ultimately proves an ever-increasing surplus that we have compared to foreign countries. The government will probably argue that the problem is that high wages are above average. In the United Left, we think it's normal for everyone to contribute according to their abilities. Those who have more will, of course, contribute more, those who have less to contribute less. At the same time, we stress two more. The highest wages receive a very small proportion of employees, which means that very little is contributed to the total wage, and even less by the total cost of production, so lowering high wages or taxation of high wages greatly increases competitiveness. Come in. Derogation with us is not extraordinary at all. If we look at Belgium, Belgium doesn't have a social cap. The general income relief is EUR 7 000 900, the highest income rate is almost 54%, and it is used here, be particularly careful, for incomes above EUR 38 000 870, with a net tax base of EUR 70 000 900. In short, although Belgium has twice the wages and gross social product, it has a half-limit of 50 % of the income class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u21	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. A representative of the proposer and Mrs Marush Škopac should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u22	Good afternoon, Members and Members. As a Member, I am extremely angry and frustrated that in this Parliament or at least in the country, we know exactly what needs to be done to make things better, but what is somehow not courage, does not want this to happen. Today, Nova Slovenija comes to this National Assembly with a relatively simple solution that solves two problems, increasing the net salary of all citizens and solving the problem of day migrants in north-eastern Slovenia without any undue complications or problems. But I'm afraid the debate will go in the direction that the idea is good, and the time is not right, as usual. Before Slovenia there is an important challenge, people will judge us by our actions and how we will know how to respond to these challenges. I have repeatedly said that there are at least three key challenges ahead of us that require very quick and powerful answers. One is demography, the other is security challenges and the third business environment. With regard to demographics, there is no excessive scientific mathematics, every year we are older, we are getting older, the child is not, the birth rate is low, so there will have to be something done here quickly. I hope here, especially in the coalition, they are aware of this. Security threats. Look what's happening all over the world. Just yesterday, it was tragically destroyed, if I may say so, by the British Member merely because she advocated the position that Britain should remain in the European Union. What I'm trying to say is, we're ahead of a very sensitive time. The third challenge I was talking about is improving the business environment. We have various conferences in Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and young entrepreneurs, and they all say the same thing. We all agree that these things need to be done, and then we come to the question again why we do not. If, for example, in the business environment, we focus only on the taxes and tax burdens that apply in Slovenia, then we can compare with other countries with which we compete if we divide taxes into three different groups – one is the taxation of wages, other capital and third real estate. If we compare these three tax groups with other OECD countries, and in particular those with which we compete, we find that, for example, the work in Slovenia is above average taxed and capital and property under average taxation. In this direction, all future tax reforms must also be seen in this light. It is with this experiment and today's law that Nova Slovenija wants to somehow tackle this particular segment, that we have an excessively taxed job in Slovenia. The adoption of this law will, of course, raise net wages for all citizens. The solution, as I said, is simple. By raising general relief at the end of the year, this will lead to a greater profit on the part of citizens. I know that there will be a major coalition issue, as well as a reflection of the financial ministry, particularly on what this means to get out of the state budget. It is quite clear that if the country cuts less off our salaries, it will also get less in its budget. But there are very good ways to replace this failure. As I said, with the rise in general relief, net wages rise. Here in Novi Slovenija we see in particular the opportunity to reduce the public sector's wages slightly due to the rise in net wages. I think that this would be such a beautiful common measure, which would be difficult for the public sector as well as for Mr Strukelj to object if we somehow adopted a package where net wages would rise while at the same time reducing the cost of gross wages. This is certainly one of the ways in which the loss resulting from the increase in general relief is replaced, on the other hand, is said to be very simple and very direct, by reducing the mass for the public sector or for the public sector's wages. This is one group or one way to cover this deficit. The second is increased domestic consumption. When you look at a variety of economic research and wonder what it is that drives economic growth, in addition to all the well-known exports there are more things that have an important impact on economic growth. In addition to exports, this is also domestic consumption and also public investment or public consumption. However, if the country has somewhat time-bound public investment, more should be done for domestic consumption. It is by keeping more people in their wallets that we can make a key contribution to this domestic consumption. I think this circle is relatively simple. If there's more people left in their wallets, they'll spend more, they'll buy more. As they buy more, entrepreneurs will sell more. But if they sell more, they create more, and they can hire more people. That's how we get such a beautiful circle. However, more employees, of course, mean again other ratings for the country, in particular getting more contributors to the pension and health allowance. In Novi Slovenija we have tried several different laws on how to raise net payments to citizens and how to improve domestic consumption as a result. We first came, if you remember, with a law where we proposed that roughly €3,000 300 of your annual earnings would not be paid or taxed or, as a result, 270 euros of monthly earnings would not be paid and that would result in all citizens having 50 euros of higher net wages. And then, a while ago, the coalition said it was too complicated, a non-systemic solution, which, of course, also has some bad other consequences. And now we come with a much simpler, much simpler solution. By increasing general relief. In addition to what I am telling you now, what this law would bring positive to the citizens themselves, to the net wages themselves and to the domestic consumption itself, is another aspect that is important, and these are migrant workers who work in Austria. You know the decision of the Constitutional Court, you know their problems, and I can't imagine how otherwise the ministry will solve these problems in a constitutionally undeniable way. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that solutions applicable to all citizens must be implemented and that a single group cannot have special status. This was a key reason why the Constitutional Court repealed that special arrangement for day-to-day migrants and why we have problems. Whatever you're turning things around, it's not possible to come up with another smart solution to solve this problem. The problem arose because we have higher taxation in Slovenia than in Austria and then this difference is paid in Slovenia. If the country wants to solve this problem – and I recommend it to solve it – then it will also have to bite into this apple. This solution that we are bringing to this Parliament today would solve this problem in at least 95% of all cases, because otherwise I am confident that the conflict between migrants and the country itself will continue to escalate, which is not in any case good or useful. We will see which way today's debate will go. I think these are topics that are important for the future of Slovenia. I will say again that we are talking about how the citizens of the service will have a decent life, of course with a decent salary. These are not some senseless, meaningless debates and debates that help no one but take up a lot of time. Those who oppose this solution today would like you at least to present your counter-solution or a counter-solution. If we are already working in New Slovenia in the opposition and if we have set ourselves the goal of not only criticising and opposing as an opposition party, but we want to be constructive and about the things that we are criticising, also coming to Parliament with our proposals and showing how we want things to be resolved, then I would also like to be on the other hand, by the government coalition, to assess that the opposition's proposal is not appropriate or not good, it also tells us how it will solve it. I hope that at least the debaters will recognise that all the discussions that are currently taking place in the country are going in the direction that something needs to be done for the tax burden of work. This is clear that the economy has also made it very clear that they are not interested in any restructuring of the tax burdens, and they are particularly interested in the tax burden, which will contribute to the start-up and reverse of the economic bicycles. I look forward to today's debate. I hope that I do not want this law too much to see the light of the world at least in this first reading, which is a general discussion where we are discussing principles and general orientations, and that the coalition will be able to make this effort to let it go to the second reading and then repair it in the second reading as it will assess that there are financial capabilities and the possibility that it will not be another story when the opposition has tried and the coalition has calmly sat down and finally rejected it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u23	Mr Jožef Horvat, representative of the proposed law, has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Marusha Škopac and Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again a very nice greeting from this city! Allow me to begin by thanking all of those – you are practically all except the United Left – who have commended the efforts of New Slovenia. Yeah, it's really a sincere effort, really. We will continue with these efforts. I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, who, in fact, has answered my written question, which I sent him on 19 May, within ten days. I have asked him for an answer, given that we do not have the data to assess the financial effects of our bill. The Minister wrote me off, as I said, on June 1st and estimated that there was a shortfall in revenue in the state budget for about 490 million euros. I have no reason not to trust this number, but of course this is far from what the United Left was talking about, I think she was talking about a 1.3 billion drop. The initiative is interesting. Thank you for that assessment. Isn't 7 grand real? Okay, if it's not real, fine, then we'll go to another treatment. That's why we have a second treatment. Therefore, somehow I do not understand now the decision of the largest coalition party. So if the initiative is right, let's discuss it, let's make models, model – the Ministry of Finance has fantastic tools for modeling, the opposition doesn't have them – and let's go to the second reading and try to make something of it. Perhaps some parliamentary groups have forgotten that the law enters into force 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For 2018, we do not yet have the budget adopted in the National Assembly. Together, we all have one and a half year's time available for tasks to balance this budget deficit. Probably no one expects tax relief or, in this case, general income tax relief to be budgetaryly harmonised. Tax relief cannot be budgetaryly coordinated or balanced. That's not working. It makes the budget easier, so we need to find something else to patch this up. Time is changing, social relations are changing, globalisation is also working on Slovenia if we want it or not. The same models as they were 25 years ago, when we were setting up our country, cannot apply today. Maybe in some case. On our own, more precisely, 1. 1. 1991, we had 9 thousand 773 employees in the state administration. On 1 May 2016, a few weeks ago, 30 000 468 were employed by the State Administration. I'm just giving you a comparison. I can't say this number is too big right now, but I wonder if it's optimal. Of course, there's the police and the military. Maybe just as a clue where we could save some money. Let us, however, ask once whether our country is thin, because we all like to say that it has to be thin, efficient, cheap and we follow the example of Switzerland, which has 8 ministers and is almost 8 million people. All right, let's go. This measure of ours is also going in this direction in order, however, to be a slightly more attractive country for foreign investors, but of course also domestic ones. I don't know if there's a lot of pressure from foreign investors at the border crossings or at the airport. It doesn't look like it. We all, that is, all of us 90, and the government also know what we have to do to be interesting to domestic and foreign investors. Last week, colleagues from the Czech Parliament were here. In fact, it makes you happy to look at their data because recorders are after gross growth and at a low level of unemployment. And the recipe is in the palm of your hand. True, I know that all solutions from some other countries cannot simply be copied and pasted into our legislation. That's not working. But at least some basic principles could be learned. Social Democrats – at the beginning of my position, I thought we were together. Once again, with tax reliefs, unfortunately, we cannot come up with such solutions in order to be balanced from a budgetary point of view. And once again, the law only comes into force in a year and a half. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the We actually haven't been able to, I'll just say, make a package of tax legislation. To be fair, we're not capable of getting in front of this high choir, let's say a property tax, a real estate tax. Surely we are all afraid, even this coalition is afraid of this, because some previous law has failed unfavorably, but sooner or later we will have to bite into this sour apple and come to some solutions to tax legislation that will be fair, fair and so on. A united left – it is almost pointless to lose words here because they say they are an anti-systemic party. So they are a party that advocates another social and economic order, so of course we will never be able to come here together. But I also missed a little by Miha Kordiša comparison with Venezuela. It's a shame we never get any alternative solutions from them. Is a balance sheet the right solution? So that the cleaning woman would have the same monthly salary as the chairman of a bank's administration? We can debate this, but the debate is likely to be closed quickly. When we drafted this law, there is no secret, we also consulted with Slovenian tax experts and, of course, also studied in detail the Coalition Agreement on Cooperation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2014-2018. We are not co-signers of this coalition agreement, but some of the points and some of the announced gold solutions are worth it. But as long as they're only on paper, they're worth nothing. Nevertheless, we always have some kind of agreement, we have some kind of political agenda, in which case these coalitions. Of course, we welcome the forecasts on the fifth page, where the effort is made for a predictable and simple business environment. Yeah, easy. I hope that one day I will experience that we will have such simple income legislation that we will actually all be able to calculate annual or monthly income. In this case, I may be going back a little bit, to the position of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. I would like to say that general relief is 7,000 better for the debtors than the current stairway. It is a step in order to add additional relief to those who have the least. That's why we put it up to 7,000. If we put at 6,000, this solution would be worse for those who have at least than ever. But it is not a problem if, in particular, Desus advocates a step-by-step general relief. Let's get this over with at the second reading, and let's move on. She can't be a stepfather, she can be federal or whatever. But the fact is that our income scale — that's what all potential investors across Europe are telling us — is too steep. On the fifth side of the coalition agreement, there is a gradual decommissioning of good (work and capital) within the framework of the Green Budget Reform. We're here together. Economics, point 4.3, on the 12th page. With the phasing-out of environmentally harmful subsidies, we will create a situation to gradually reduce labour burden and increase the cost competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Yeah, we're here together. Come in. I'll read a few lines of the coalition agreement. I don't want to analyze the details right now, but I'm looking for common nouns. The 14th page states: "Through the Green Budget Reform, create a situation for gradual reduction of labour burdens (social contributions), which will allow for greater cost competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and at the same time improve the state of the environment. On the other hand, the overall workload of contributions increases the competitiveness of all companies." Yeah, we're here together, even though we're not signatories. We want to help the coalition. I have repeatedly told the Prime Minister and Mr Marble that if you do not have enough votes in the coalition, count on New Slovenia for good solutions in order to improve the business environment. Next, page 21: "Inventory scale will try to change by breaking wages," again, "high-skilled labour." I'm always adding to the development of engineers here. Page 22: "Reforming the income scale. Study the possibility of reshaping the income scale to relieve the wages of a highly skilled workforce." Mr Dusan Maramor said, as a candidate for the Minister of Finance at the hearing, that he would strive for a development engineer in Slovenia to receive a higher net salary because this would be the right policy. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that we today have an active immigration policy. It's not written anywhere, but people, our young graduates and experts, feel this environment and go out. It's not a brain circulation, it's a brain drain, and it's a major disaster for a two-million-dollar nation and a country. Page 22 again: "Decreasing labour burden through the Green Budget Reform". Gradually reducing the burden of work, taxes, contributions – we are back together. I'm not gonna keep going, but there's something else about these common denominators. In short, we're in several places together. Workload. Maybe a few calculations because we're talking numbers today. There is no room for an ideological debate here, I want a truly exact debate. The rounded average salary — old-fashioned annual income, without other benefits for family members, is only a general relief. According to the existing amount of annual income for the average salary of EUR 2 000 894, do not hold me for numbers, let's say five euros plus a minute. After the new or after our solution, the person receiving the average wage would pay a thousand €123 at the annual level. The difference is €1771 or 147.58 per month. I think that the Ministry of Finance has made a mistake here because it has calculated that this difference in average salary is only €77 per month. According to our calculations, there are 147 euros a month. We're going to the minimum wage. Here the Ministry of Finance also correctly calculates. Minimum wage – according to the current income of 138 euros, according to our proposal of poor 62 euros. The difference is therefore around €77, per month of good €6. I don't know what. This means that the one with the minimum wage with our solution would get a good €6.7 more per month. Of course we'd like to get more. And let's say the one with the annual income of $30,000. Under the existing legislation, it pays EUR 5,000,418, after our solution, €4,000,419. The difference is €999 per year. So thousands of Euros at the annual level get more from those with annual revenues of 30,000. Colleagues and colleagues, all of you received a letter from the Rector's Conference of the Republic of Slovenia on 4 May. I suggest you read that. It's about income. We do not have only daily and weekly migrant workers working in Austria, and we do not know how to solve their problem. Well, we know them. Our solution is – we simply do not see others – to raise general relief, which somehow calmed us down. We should also look at why the Rector's Conference is writing to us. I would only suggest and ask that we actually focus on this solution and take into account that our solution only fits in 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Until then, let us do something to replace this budget deficit, which is close to half a billion, with some other solutions. Even with the rationalisation of the country. However, I would not like, ladies and gentlemen, to see New Slovenia as a concern for public financial sustainability. Don't read this to us because you know that we are the ones who supported the Fiscal Rule Act. Today, too, we often point out that we need this independent fiscal world as masters who will take the Fiscal Rule Act into their hands and use it. Last but not least, in its specific recommendations, the European Commission also reminded us of this on 18 May this year and highlighted the necessity of electing the fiscal world in this high house. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u25	The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. We certainly agree with the proposaler and many debaters today that the wage burden in Slovenia is high. However, we cannot remain on such a general assessment. We need to go deep, we need to look at different income classes, and we need to look at the different benefits that come from wages. When we do this analysis, we can find that in Slovenia, wages are taxed above average compared to those to which we want to compare after competitiveness in those employees who have a salary higher than 1.6 times the average salary in the country. I use the OECD comparisons when a person or an employee applies only general relief and does not have any dependent family members. In this above-average burden, social security contributions represent the majority of the over-average burden. But with a 1.6-fold average wage, it also becomes an over-average income burden, not just contributions. Let me leave my contributions to the place today, because I have repeatedly said that the problem of social security contributions needs to be addressed, but it is only necessary to discuss this issue, together with the debate on the social security system itself, which we also want to keep going. Let's focus on the income problem. If, on the one hand, we agree that wages above 1.6 times the average salary in Slovenia are higher than in other countries, then we have to ask ourselves how to address this problem. The proposed bill seeks to address the problem by raising the general benefit set out in the fixed amount and thus represents a higher share of income in lower income classes and a lower share in higher income classes. We must also, or we can agree, that the solutions to be sought must be found and presented at the same time. This is what the Government is trying to design and coordinate with all stakeholders already this year. Of course, coordination is difficult and takes a lot of time, because in fact we do not have this luxury to come to Parliament with such a proposal for a law that does not have broad support for the public concerned. The problem of obtaining this support is in ensuring another objective, which I firmly believe is a prerequisite for any further economic growth, which is public financial stability. It is difficult or virtually impossible to support a proposal for a law that opens or provides an opportunity to discuss only one element of the Income Act, that is the amount of general relief, while at the same time preventing any discussion of any other point of the Income Act until 2018. Let me remind you of the established legislative practice in the National Assembly that, until a preliminary law has been enacted, a new bill cannot be tabled. This means that, if this Act enters into force on 1 January 2018, no amendment to the Income Act shall be possible until 1 January 2018. Thus, similar situations were interpreted in this congregation. Certainly, all the questions raised in relation to the Income Act cannot be resolved through the level of general relief. Neither the problems that migrant workers face, nor the problems that Slovenian researchers, who are temporarily assigned to work abroad, nor other workers who are sent abroad, would be found. We therefore consider it appropriate to step back, not to endorse this proposal as suitable for further consideration and to continue discussions on finding the widest possible consensus for changes in both income and other tax burdens that will ensure both – to improve the business environment by reducing wage burdens while at the same time ensuring fiscal sustainability. I am confident that we will soon be able to reach such a broad scope of agreement for the proposals prepared by the Government, which we have already explained on a number of occasions, that a comprehensive proposal for amendments to the Income Act and the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons can be addressed already this year and implemented with effect from 1 January of next year. We are also working and looking for the widest possible consensus on the taxation of immovable property. Although there is not much to be heard in the public, it has been enormous in the last year, both in cooperation with the municipalities and within the evaluation and the burden level itself. And there's something else about financial effects. As has already been said, the proposed amendment amounts to 490 million tax or lower income. Given that the municipalities account for 54% of the revenue collected, or at a two-year delay, this means that in the year in which this solution is to be implemented, the State budget, on the one hand, will have to find compensation for 490 million lower income from income, since, in fact, the municipalities will still have to provide a higher share of the current income collected, while at the same time having to replace the municipalities with EUR 265 million at a two-year delay, if we are talking about no change or no change at that time in the financing of municipalities. This means under the current regime for 265 million financial transfers from the state budget. This does not only mean that we need to think about the lower revenues of the state budget, but we need to think or find a solution for the additional expenditure to be provided. However, when we talk about alternative sources or the possibility of a return to the budget through consumption, I have already said in my introductory presentation that if we consider only higher net incomes among those belonging to the lower income class, and we expect that they will fully and immediately spend all the additional income available, then we can talk about spending 125 million euros and that, given the average VAT burden there, between 16% and 17%, this would mean about 20 million additional VAT revenues. It's still 470 million. However, if all the debtors spent a total of 490 million immediately in the same year, that would mean some more than €80 million there. There is still a 410 million euro gap. Nor should we forget that this long-term plan of gradual fiscal consolidation, when tax non-increased in general, provides for a lower expenditure of EUR 240 million each year. Therefore, for 240 million annual reductions in expenditure, the scenario already included in the plan for the gradual fiscal consolidation is zero. With this proposal and the debate that we have had today, it appears that you want or support the idea that, in addition to these 240 million, we would try to find an additional EUR 400 million savings by reducing public spending, while we are also constantly facing demands in the National Assembly to provide additional funds for the municipalities, for security, for the military, for the police, for investment, for flood protection and more and could also be listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u27	A representative of the proposer spoke again. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for the professional view of this solution. I am very grateful that the State Secretary has said that if this law is enforced and enters into force as of 1 January 2018, this means that we must not amend any other income legislation by then. Yes, exactly, but this is a huge contribution to the predictability of the tax environment. If we adopt this law this month or next month, investors will know in a year and a half exactly what the income solution will be. That's the predictability. If you want to be an investor, you need to see what solutions are going to be. This is not the case with us. We change tax legislation too often. No one, nor does the Minister of Finance, know what tax legislation will be like in the year 2017, let alone an investor. I don't think there's anything wrong with this 490 million, or how long it stays with the hostages. The fact is, those who get a little more per month, 7 euros per month, will spend it. Those who get a month or so will spend a bit more, which I think they will not, but will remain in banks, which will increase the liquidity of our banks. Is that a bad thing?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u29	Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare for the mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u30	At present, we have a step-by-step scale of general tax relief in place, which often leads to someone falling into a higher income scale at the raising of gross wages and consequently lower the rate of general tax relief. The result is, of course, absurd, with a higher gross salary, a person receives a lower net payment. The proposed single rate of tax relief would certainly eliminate this anomaly and, on the other hand, the adoption of the proposed general tax relief would have a major impact on public financial revenues. The government budget revenue outage is estimated at around €470 million in this case. We know that the impact on increased private consumption is the largest in lower income classes, which are characterised by all their additional available income being spent on consumption. If we assume that all those in lower income classes would spend the entire burden on consumption, it is estimated that VAT revenues would increase by a maximum of EUR 20 million. We are therefore talking about the drop in revenue to the state budget of €470 million, just at the time when we adopted the fiscal rule and when one of the country's key economic objectives is public financial consolidation. At such an important time for the public financial image, it is still important that we are aware of the fact that any changes in the area of public charges, on the other hand, must also provide stable and predictable public financial revenues. This means that any loss of revenue must be replaced by a new source and that is why Minister Marble repeatedly repeats that the Government is preparing tax restructuring rather than relief. This is our reality at least until 2020 when the structural deficit is expected to be corrected. In the light of the tax restructuring, the Government is preparing a proposal to reduce the burden of work, for which the analysis shows that there is an average burden in our country. The average share of social security contributions on the one hand and the under-average share of income has been shown to be above average in labour costs. In the future, therefore, it shows us to reduce labour burdens by contributing to social security and to increase capital and property burdens. In the light of the fiscal consolidation, the government proposal will follow this to the extent that sufficient public consensus will be reached.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u31	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Mrs Andreja Potočnik and Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the introduction, I would like to say that I will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act tabled by the New Slovenia Group. I think it is commendable that this bill came to the National Assembly, especially the fact that this is the first reading of this law. Whether all the figures referred to by the applicant are acceptable to the sustainability of public finances or not could still be discussed. The point is, of course, that this matter is being opened today – it is a first reading – and that I expect the coalition to come together, as you often call on us, and probably have done something together for a better standard for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, especially economists. However, it was clear from the views of the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups that you would once again reject the opposition's proposal. I think it is very sad that you are actually in such a position, because I am sure that in the second and third readings you could make a change or supplement to the Income Law that would also be acceptable to public finances. I would now like to touch a little more on the problem we have in Slovenia. I am convinced that the burdens, both for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and for economists, are too great, both small, medium and large. This is also reflected by the low economic growth in Slovenia and, above all, by the departure of foreign investors or the fact that foreign investment is not available in Slovenia. There's been enough talk about income rates, workloads. Here it is necessary to pour pure wine and sometimes actually say that the burdens of work or income rates in Slovenia are significantly higher than in Austria. We are therefore on similar burdens, Austria and Slovenia, but we are likely to have one significant difference, where Austria begins to gain compared to Slovenia. Austria has a social cap, which is a key issue. I am convinced that in Slovenia too, the introduction of a social cap should be considered and that this would be a positive effect, a positive drive mainly for the economy. I agree that actually higher net wages also mean higher consumption, and in fact also represents an opportunity for higher economic growth. I'd probably touch another thing. A respected coalition, a respected secretary of state, would say one thing in a plastic case. You can beat a dead donkey that much, but it won't move the load forward. In other words, this means that when we come to some tax burden, this means that our revenue in the budget will begin to decline. In the case of tax burdens, we know both the mathematical and the economic model. The mathematical model speaks in one direction, namely that we increase tax revenues, burdens and thus increase tax revenues. It's a mathematical model. However, the economic model is different, because when we exceed this limit at one rate of tax burden, it is a fact that taxes begin to decrease in the budget itself. Dear Secretary of State, I was already talking about Laffer's curve at one of the previous meetings. I suggest you read a study by American economist Arthur Laffer, who was also a consultant — at least for me — of the best American president ever, Ronald Reagan, between 1981 and 1983. What does this Laffer curve say? We have two extremes. At the zero tax rate, the budget has no revenue, but on the other hand, we have no tax revenue at 100% of the tax burden. This means that we must find a lever here at which the tax rate starts to decline. In a beautiful case under two governments, we have seen the extreme growth of excise duties so far, as we increase excise duties, and the fact is that excise duties are falling into the budget itself. I am sure that it is not necessary for the reduction of taxes to be passed on to social burdens, to social weaknesses, because I am convinced that with lower tax rates we in some way additionally motivate those with capital, and thus achieve higher economic growth and consequently significantly higher revenues into the state budget. Look what America did between 1981 and 1983. That is exactly what they have chosen, and it has actually turned out that by lowering tax rates, the wealthier ones have added more money to the budget. And you're here with a theory of merely raising taxes. Like I said before, a dead donkey can beat that much, but it won't bring the burden forward. We have come to this extreme that because of high tax rates, both in wages and income and in consumption, tax revenues have begun to decline or economic growth has declined. A respected coalition, a respected secretary of state, I am sure that we have come into a situation where something needs to be changed. I personally think that in Slovenia we should start thinking in a very short time that we have not only a progressive tax burden, but that we should get to a point where this matter will also be regressive, and that we should start attracting those people with capital to Slovenia. At a regressive stage, I am confident that revenues at a certain border will start to increase in the Slovenian budget. One beautiful example that we read about the last time two billionaires moved into a Swiss village. What's going on out there? Residents of this village pay fewer taxes each year because those rich people fill the budget. Let's put this in at least a short or medium time to start thinking in Slovenia that we are not only progressive, but we also have a regressive tax rate and a burden at a certain limit. Not that we are reading today how foreign multinationals from Slovenia are moving to neighbouring countries, to Bratislava, Zagreb or Belgrade. I am convinced that the reduction of taxes is not necessarily a transfer of burdens to social weaknesses, but that this is an added value and that ultimately this regressive tax rate and lower taxes mean higher economic growth and, finally, higher revenues to the Slovenian budget itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Šircelj and Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Perhaps at the beginning of my debate I should mention that we are absolutely in the Member State for talking and no one has mentioned in their debate today that this debate makes no sense. Absolutely every debate makes sense in the direction of better economic growth and better life in our country, and this proposal of yours today is absolutely going this way. I am of the opinion that the tax burden is certainly one of the priorities of this government, because I believe that this will contribute to a more stable further economic growth. As mentioned several times in the debate, the NSI proposal represents a deficit of €490 million for the state budget, which is absolutely not a negligible number. In addition, several times in various debates, particularly in finance, we are talking about taking funds from municipalities, especially when we are talking about averages. Today, however, we have before us a proposal that indirectly takes the same amount of money to the municipalities, so that we need to be a little consistent in these proposals of the law and, in fact, look at the impact on several sides. Unfortunately, I note that in this proposal I do not see the economic burden, as stated above, but the fact that individuals will receive a higher net salary with this proposal, which can therefore also mean higher consumption. But higher consumption, as already explained by the Secretary of State, will not cover the loss of tax revenue or this gap will still be quite large. However, let me remind you once again that the European Commission has proposed, in particular for Slovenia, to close the excessive deficit procedure, as we have successfully reduced our deficit in 2015 below the 3% of the Treaty's GDP reference value, but they also continue to expect that this correction will be permanent. In fact, we must always take care of the budget deficit with every proposal we accept, so that we will be successful in the future. We have ensured financial stability, it has not been easy to ensure, there has to be a huge effort on the part of the government, and we must continue to do so and this must be a key guide in advance. It is also necessary to take a look at the full picture of the tax and contribution burden. Slovenia, according to data from the European Commission, was 37% on average of the European Union's taxes and contributions, which is 40% of gross domestic product and 37% for Slovenia for 2014, so we are on average. Thus, we cannot say that Slovenia collects more taxes than another country. Certainly, however, I agree that the problem in the structure of taxes is because Slovenia deviates from the average on the basis of the burdens mainly on the part of the work on contributions, on social protection and on consumption. On the average, however, as we have already seen, assets and capital are burdened. I therefore essentially agree or support the Government's approach that tax restructuring is necessary so that work will be less burdensome in the future. We already know the proposal of Minister Marble, but the question is, to what extent will we be able to carry out this restructuring and then confirm it in the National Assembly and how much support we will have with the other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Šircelj, let Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič and Mr Janko Weber prepare. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to start my discussion with a slightly different view of tax relief or generally tax relief. I am following most of the debate, but I have not heard these arguments either by the motioners. We are talking today about general tax relief. For example, according to OECD publications and the publications of the International Monetary Fund, i.e. according to some professional publications, the criteria or – better – according to Slovenian – criteria for general tax relief are listed. What is the criterion that should determine what general tax relief should be? Regardless of the macroeconomic situation, regardless of the financial situation, whatever happens in the next 10 years for the country and so on, but depending on the individual, according to the citizen or citizen. We have a criterion for that. This general tax relief is supposed to amount to the amount needed for life. From the point of view of the SMC, from the point of view of the Social Democrats, Desus is the criterion for the essential necessities of life. Let us now ask ourselves how much it is after the current tax relief the amount of the urgently needed needs. How much does he give now? I'm not talking about which government, nothing. I can calculate or calculate — between 230 and 270 euros per month. In other words, this means that the State, the Government, if you want, also the policy and this coalition, recognises EUR 230 or a maximum of 270 as essential necessities of life. This is a criterion for general relief. Not an economic criterion, but an ethical, moral, survival criterion. It is not moral for the state to tax the money needed to survive. It's not moral. This gives rise to the level of general tax relief. The proposal made by Nova Slovenija means that this amount would be around EUR 600 per month. I think it's actually understandable, real. How will you survive with 230 euros? I'm talking about the average, I'm talking about paying for kids, paying for everyone else. It's a criterion, an internationally recognized criterion. We're talking about this today. Today, this criterion takes precedence over the macroeconomic situation, the financial situation, the municipalities and so on, and I will talk about it later. This is an expert criterion, regardless of which authority it is, left or right. This is an expert criterion that it is not moral to tax money with which to buy vital necessities of life. If you think something over 200 euros is enough to survive on a monthly basis, I do not agree with that. That is why it is right to open the debate, and it is right that we are talking about this law, and it is also right that, on the basis of some professional criteria, and this is certainly one of the professional criteria, we find out what the amount for which people do not have to pay the tax. People do not have to pay the tax on the amount necessary to purchase the necessities of life. From this point of view, I believe that the law must be upheld, that this must be determined. I can tell you that, with regard to these vital needs of life, statistics are quite unrealistic. I can tell you that this was calculated in 2005 and 2006 and that certain analyses have also been made in Slovenia on this amount, and I certainly do not think that the amount of some over 200 euros is sufficient. I don't think that's enough for life, for housing, for electricity, for all the necessities, for services, for goods, for food and for whatever you want, even at today's level, because this amount is also going through history, it's actually rising over time. And here we are falling behind. It's the first thing, and I think it's the most basic. This should also be the case with this bill. It's the other way around. I think that there is actually a misdirection about the municipalities and so on, when my colleagues and colleagues and the government also say that the congregations will have less money. You cannot speak, distinguished representative of the Government, about the fact that municipalities will have less money, given that they already have less money than they should have, because you have reduced this amount by 20% to 30% with the Budget Implementation Act. According to the basic law, the municipalities should have these averages — or principals or whatever else — for 120, 130 euros more. It's a constant dispute. You cannot talk about the new basis and so on in this temporary mechanism, as set out in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. That doesn't make any sense. That's not right. It's a delusion, it's a hoax. Here is the congregation, and, of course, according to other incomes, the congregations will be able to have more income. The state will give it to you, but the basic criterion is still. This country or this government actually taxes the money needed for the necessities of life, with income. Let us leave the value added tax, from which any goods or services are taxed. With income, with personal tax, a person is taxed with it. Person, citizen, citizen, human. This makes it completely irrelevant for us to talk about the congregations today, for we are talking about man and his personal relief. Second. I think that such an facilitating effect has an impact on the workload and impact on employers, and this has an encouraging impact. The impact, which is positive for competitiveness, for economic growth, is positive that in fact unemployment is finally reduced, that more people contribute to the state budget and that they are smaller social contributions. From this model point of view, this proposal has a positive impact on the whole, on the country, on society and, of course, on the fiscal system. Static calculation of how much less money there will be in the budget is also not the most professional. Then at least tell me it's a static calculation. Regardless of economic growth, regardless of unemployment, no matter what happens to the global economy, no matter what happens to exports, no matter how much the average wage increases and so on. What the distinguished Secretary of State is doing is saying that we are more taxed on wages that are higher than 1.6% of the average wage. Yeah, hold on. Statistically, everything can be said in a certain way. I'll tell you another way. The average wage in Slovenia is EUR 1 000 560 and EUR 1 000 560 is more taxed in Slovenia than in Austria. This was also demonstrated by the debate we had 14 days ago and the analysis we made in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In short, if the employee receives a thousand 560 euros in salary in Austria, he will get 200 euros more, about a thousand 200 euros net, and about a thousand euros net. Now tell me whether there is actually such a difference in costs when we talk about it and in competitiveness and so on. It's not. Here we can also compare Slovenians who work in Austria, especially because they did not get jobs in Slovenia because the country essentially threw them out in economic terms. It's about income. She didn't throw them out about the taxes, but she did. From this point of view, of course, I think it is necessary to discuss this. If we are talking about 2018, then there is no problem not to discuss it and that we will also find a solution to it. As I have already said, at this meeting, when I asked the Minister for Finance about his tax changes and tax restructuring, and so on, as my colleagues and colleagues of SMC are talking about, because he is failing. Twice he came to employers with some tax restructuring solutions – I am afraid that this is a second word to increase taxes – and with some mini tax reforms and so on. There's nothing like that. It is rejected by employers, rejected by trade unions, the Economic and Social Council does not want to discuss this. Here is one of the proposals that we can discuss and which can also be taken by the coalition for its own, such or otherwise. No one owns these proposals, these proposals are general, whether they are given to NSIs or to SDSs or to anyone. But rejecting this at first reading actually means that this is because they made this proposal on the wrong side. Otherwise, I can't even think. Not a search for solutions. You're saying for yourself that work is too taxed, the Minister of Finance is talking about work being overtaxed. Here is one possibility that work will be less taxed. Here's one possibility. But that doesn't happen. Regardless of whether I return to the initial criterion, which is the amount of goods and services, products and services needed for a decent human life. They're not taxed. These are not taxed morally or ethically in countries that place a bet on a person or a citizen. They are not taxed on income, and then they are taxed on value added taxes. This is not moral, and it is unprofessional to tax, and something else is likely. Of course, I will support this law so that appropriate solutions can be found below. We can talk about deficits and so on. What does it matter? A man is important, a citizen and a citizen. Not only solve and find excuses with some macro-economic data, how this is the opposite, but also with solutions that concern a citizen and a citizen. That's not an argument. There will always be macroeconomic problems and so on. I don't know how interested people are in macroeconomic problems. People are interested in how much money they get, companies are interested in how competitive they are. This is a proposal that improves the situation of people and a proposal that enhances the competitiveness of the economy. I don't know if most people today are interested in whether the deficit is going to be 2.7 or 2.6% of the gross social product, whatever that means to them, or maybe even anyone. It's about people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to thank the reverend mags first. The broad I see as the greatest tax expert in the '90s. We have done a lot together already in the 2004-2008 mandate and so on, and I am glad that he has touched on the key principles of tax policy and mentioned the ethical and morality of tax solutions, tax policy. I would just like to reinforce with numbers what Mr Šircelj has said, which, of course, can be found on the website of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. That's what I saw the last time we interviewed the secretary. It clearly speaks here of the degree of risk of poverty. You know, colleagues and colleagues, that 290,000 people live below the poverty line, that's close to 15% of the citizens. Now let's see what this threshold of poverty is, which is actually what my colleague Shircelj was talking about. 2014 was 7 000 147 at the annual level. That's why we're making 7 grand a relief. Last year, 2015, it fell slightly, €7 000 111 per year. That's why we're making it easier on the general income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Antonio Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go, Mrs. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, dear colleagues! It is right that we are discussing tax issues, which proves that this is already the third attempt to implement the Income Law. The first attempt was an attempt by the Government in the framework of a mini-tax reform. The second time we had an almost identical proposal on the table. In the end, a so-called hybrid was formed, the basis of which is the ZUJF. The proposed law changed the rate of income by increasing the margin between the second and third tax classes as a temporary measure for two years and by extending the fourth grade by 50 % tax rate. However, a new restructuring plan is being prepared for the burden of all public benefits. We have before us a proposal that removes the so-called step-by-step general relief and proposes to increase the overall relief to €7,000, irrespective of income and annual harmonisation for the debtor. However, it does not provide for a precise calculation of how much less income there will be in the income budget. The answer to the question of the financial consequences of raising the general income relief was, as we have already heard, that the increase of the overall relief to EUR 7 000 when the additional general relief was lifted would result in a fall in the state budget of around EUR 490 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u41	Dear colleague, this microphone obviously doesn't work. Can you move to the next seat, please turn that off and turn that one on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u42	I'll keep going. I hope you've heard something before. In the Coalition Treaty, we have written down that we will try to change the income scale by decommissioning the salaries of a highly skilled workforce. We will pay attention to better and effective collection of existing public taxes, tax collection and regular payment of taxes. Let us recall that the fourth income class was extended by a 50% tax rate at the request of the Desus Group at the end of 2015 when this law was last amended. Above all, we have always advocated that if we are already changing the income scale, we need to design it by unloading the middle layer of the population, which is disproportionately burdened. The proposal by the proposer does not support fair and equal treatment of the debtors, so we will reject the amendment because all the debtors do not receive the same annual income and do not receive the same social status, which is a particularly important factor in the creation of income legislation in the individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mag. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. I am pleased that virtually all those who are discussing today, both the proposer and the other representatives of the parliamentary groups, point out that it is necessary to take a step forward, especially for those who have minimum incomes and actually have difficulty spending a day, let alone a month. Nevertheless, this proposal, which we are talking about today, does not only touch these, but also touches the richest ones. This is always one of the hidden aduts of the proposer, if I may say so, because, nevertheless, in general, the proposals for amending the tax legislation by New Slovenia are coming in this direction to try to make a greater burden on the richer and show that we are also helping those with lower incomes. From the data that we can read, or part of the Government's opinion on this bill, it is said that if the proposed solution to the increase of the overall relief of EUR 7 000 is implemented, this means a drop in revenue in the national budget for around EUR 490 million, and that the proposal for the calculation of income would have an impact on all the debtors applying the general benefit, with some more than 970 000 according to the 2014 figures. Fortunately, we do not have 970 thousand of those who receive, say, a minimum wage in Slovenia, but the fact is that this law also touches those who have substantially better salaries, namely 98% of all those who are committed will have the opportunity to apply this relief or will receive this reduction in income which is proposed in this law. This is information that is reflected in the government's opinion, and I think we can talk about that being true. However, we need to be precise and careful when we talk about whether this law needs to be addressed not only today and whether we will also consider it at future meetings, because it is likely that there will be a problem, even if we consider this law at a second reading, how to resolve all the other issues that arise. In fact, it also raises the question of how to explain to the municipalities that without, say, 200 million euros. This is one of the procedures in which the opinion of the municipalities will also need to be obtained. I strongly doubt that the municipalities would agree that we will further squander their budgets for 200 million euros. That's the reality. Especially when we are always trying to reach the point where the average rises to the level that we have in the law, which we believe is necessary for municipalities to be able to carry out all their tasks smoothly and thus to ensure the development that is actually needed in all municipalities and throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as regards these discussions on income, I would also like to stress once again the proposal that we have already put forward to deal with the coalition partners in order to examine the proposal for an income scale. We also specifically propose that not all those with less than €7,000 200 of annual income pay their income. However, we are of course talking about a special relief, i.e. only for those with annual revenues of less than €7 000 200. We are not talking about 98% of the taxpayers' income. Then, of course, we also propose decommissioning of engineers and those who make a decisive contribution to the fact that our companies are also competitive in foreign markets. This is also the advantage of Slovenia. Our revenue in the budget is precisely due to successful companies in foreign markets, which is also a major difference with other countries within the European Union. This is also the reason why I claim that a fiscal rule should not be entered into the Constitution. I must admit that in the Government's opinion, I also somehow missed the definition from this point of view. If there has been an agreement to enter a fiscal rule into the Constitution, then such laws cannot come into procedure. But just New Slovenia, for example, was the one that still advocates the most fiscal rule today, but fiscal rule actually means that we take those who have the least, and we preserve the rich status of those who have the most today. In the meantime, we must not interfere because we have adopted a fiscal rule and we are bound to respect what we have written in the Constitution. I am in favour of a fiscal rule, but at a time when the minimum wage will be at least 1,000 euros and, of course, the rest of the wages will be appropriate, then let us write down in the Constitution that we maintain such a status for families in advance. But if you write a fiscal rule in the Constitution at a time when the crisis is taking people and then you raise it to a constitutional level, it is, of course, a non-life measure that Slovenia should not take because it has a significantly healthier economy than other countries that have gone into this or are trying to force them to do so. But let me get back to the income ladder for a second. We have therefore proposed that all those with an annual income of 7 000 200 euros do not pay their income. We are also proposing a new income class, namely raising the ceiling of 27% of the class to 30,000 per year, which means extending the 27% return on income to those who have 30,000 per year, and proposing a new income class from those who receive 30,000 euros per year to those who receive 50,000 per year with taxes then to 34% of the rate. Today, virtually all, from €18,000 good or €19,000 bad to €72,000, pay their income by 41%. Right here, when we want to reduce the development potential of Slovenia by 41% for all those who have a salary of about 30,000 euros per year or up to 50,000 euros per year, there is the development potential of Slovenia that we can reward to be even more successful, and that we can say that we have done something concrete that we will not be looking for a job in Austria or in other countries with less burdened jobs, but we must say significantly more taxed capital. In Slovenia we have currently 17% of the profits tax, in Austria 25% of the profits tax. That is why, of course, they also have this opportunity to create higher wages that people receive than we do in Slovenia. These options are, but without taking a real look at what this is all about, any such solution can be particularly detrimental to those who need to receive certain social transfers from the budget today. If we run out of $200 million in the budget – if I'm talking about the state right now, because even though the amount is 490 total, 200 is about to fall out on the municipalities – from where we're going to take the money to help those who actually have more than a minimum wage, but still not enough to live a decent life, we're going to cut our income by 200 million. We must also have the answer to this question how we will therefore close this gap so that we can also provide others with a decent life through these transfers to which they are entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I think that, according to the content, it certainly refers to the same thing when I talk about relief, which is supposed to cover all the needs of life in this criterion or criterion, and the gradual reliefs that we are now talking about. It was considered that for all people, the essential necessities of life are not taxed on personal taxes, on income. Income is a personal tax. How are rich, poorer, richer, less rich, medium - sized, and so on arranged? With tax scales, with tax rates. Those who do not have enough to survive are given social transfers and so on. Social transfers cannot be taxed on income, this is illogical, as can be said today. In view of my understanding, the general ease is recognised by everyone, and the criterion is the urgent need for life or the necessities of living for a decent life, as Mr Weber has said, I fully agree. That's how the system needs to be done, and that's what we're talking about. In Austria they also have a universal child allowance for children under 24 years of age, which all children receive, regardless of the wealth of the parents. Everybody gets it. Here we are talking about universal tax relief if you want one that is closer to you universal, fundamental and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The answer to a discussion by a colleague from Desus — if there was no way within the coalition that they could achieve harmonisation without a step-by-step relief — would also agree with me. I have already calculated to you that if, for example, we decide that those who have paid less or equal minimum wages do not pay any income, there must be a general benefit of EUR 7 000 385, they do not pay anything. We'll back it up. We could also go to another solution to make general relief equal to the annual poverty risk threshold, which is the content of the Magi debate. It's spreading, like, from the summer before. Then we're at 7,000 111. I'd like to correct my fellow Veber a little bit. New Slovenia did not support the Fiscal Rule Act to take the weakest, but rather to get the weakest. Because the Fiscal Rule Act must force the state to stick to the same standings as any entrepreneur. In every company, if anyone ever sat in there, changes and rationalization are the only constant. Costs are worth looking at. The contractor is looking at the costs. It's a ruthless fight. I don't know who's ever done anything to rationalize this country in this term. I don't remember.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u50	Just a brief explanation of the harmful effects of the fiscal rule. How many investments could have already taken place in Slovenia today, but we must not implement them because a fiscal rule has been adopted? That's a fact. If you listen to the Minister of Finance, we must also not rent a loan to the European Investment Bank at 1% interest rate with a 5-year moratorium on the start of repayment and so on. Slovenia is losing because there is no investment. When you have investments, you have jobs, you don't have to pay from the people's aid budget, but you have to provide jobs. The fiscal rule limited job security because we cannot invest as much as we could if we did not write it into the Constitution and adopt this law. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u51	Proposer, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Colleague Weber forgot to present the terms. We are currently in charge of 80% of GDP. That's why it's a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor to prepare the mags. Ange Logar and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The debate on the Golden Rule is probably also appropriate in this case, but I certainly understand the purpose of this proposal, according to New Slovenia, that it wants to reduce the tax burden. This is essential, and we support that, even as far as we are concerned. But I think that all structural measures must first be managed in a manner appropriate. Here is once again the debate as to how long we will need, whether this is in line with the current situation, but the fact is what I said at the outset is that the fiscal rule is what, on the one hand, we can say restrictive and on the other hand binding, which somehow keeps us in a position to have all the measures balanced. In order to move towards this issue, it is meant to restructure tax burdens, which I think is the point and also the signal of New Slovenia, which we also support in the SMC, and since we both want to relieve the economy, it is also necessary to say that this structural deficit or this desire can lead to a deficit of more than 1%, which would mean 490 million. Then, on the basis of a model assessment, the government found that it could obtain 20 million in this way, but certainly not be able to cover the 490 million euro outage. I think that the Government and all of us are somehow aware of the need to prepare measures to reduce the burden of work, and, finally, Minister Restorationšek has also said this on every occasion when he has the opportunity. This is also the intention of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, and the Secretary of State mentioned that measures are being prepared in the field of tax restructuring. However, we must always focus on how solutions must go in order not to have a negative impact on the state budget, because we must all be clear that we have one bag and that whether we are moving this bag a little to the left or a little bit to the right, this bag remains. Therefore, given the fiscal rule that limits us, it is said to open up, we also have this one source, and we should not suddenly take some quick action that would otherwise be desirable and possibly good for the individual population, but in fact in the wider picture would have its negative consequences. It is also clear - here I think we all have the same vision - that assets and capital are under-average and that we may need to focus a little more on this segment. I think that the right approach of the Government towards this tax restructuring is to make the work less burdensome, because if we look at only the data that the European Commission or the European Commission has disclosed, we are, after the burden of taxes and contributions on the average of the European Union, because for Slovenia, it is 37% of gross domestic product or, in the European Union, 40%. So it cannot be said that more taxes are collected from us than from other countries. But the problem is the structure of taxes, which I think we all agree on. Slovenia deviates from the average in this workload by contributing to social security and consumption. I think it is necessary to work on this and, as I have pointed out, that assets and capital are under-average. This segment will also need to be worked on. So in the future I expect and wait for the government's quick response in this direction, it is in the direction of reducing the workload. As I was told, and as I am aware, this is what the government is doing, so I expect us to talk more seriously about this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Anže Logar, prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ferruga, who spoke before me, thinks with his head. He proved this on Wednesday when he did not vote against the intervention of Minister of Labour Kopač Mrakova. But with what he has just said, I don't think he can agree. He said they were against taking one quick step at a time. We are in 2016, somewhere in the middle, and Article 2 states that the law shall enter into force as of 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So this is a year and a half. If it is a year and a half for SMC to take some rapid action, then we really cannot wonder why there are no reforms in this country. The government wrote in this document rejecting the New Slovenia proposal: "Achieving the tax burden of work is one of the priorities set by the Government at the time of the start of its mandate in the economic field." Two years, half a term, one of the priorities. Now you tell me what you've done in the field of workload. Let's turn around a little bit. What have you done about the burden of the economy and competitiveness? You have increased excise duties, you have permanently increased VAT, added new burdens to municipalities, you have not accepted ZUJF. Then in the middle of the mandate, when the government does nothing on this priority, and one opposition party proposes its proposal, you say we must not rush. After two years and after half the term of office, we must not rush. It is nice for members of the government coalition to say that this is an interesting initiative or as has already been said. It's just not the right thing to do when you say you don't support it because of your concerns, but you'll take the matter into consideration. At this rate, when, after half the term of office, the coalition says that we must not rush, and that for a law that would only enter into force in a year and a half, I wonder what it means to consider. Is this a decade, twenty years? In an interview, the President of Parliament said that SMC would rule for 12 years. If you take this into account, in which mandate will you begin to think seriously about fulfilling your commitment from the beginning of the mandate to relieve the tax burden on work? Tell me. In two years, the Ministry of Finance does not come with one proposal to relieve labour, introduces tax returns, additional burdens on small businesses and anyone who does business with money, and then finds that it has made a mistake and increases the rate to which it can apply without or without an account. So he admits to a mistake that we've already warned everyone about here, and then you come in and say we're not gonna talk about it. Sorry, I also cannot agree with the Minister of Finance's calculation if you say that for a million employees per year this would generate 490 million manoeuvring revenue, while at the same time it would only bring 20% of VAT. If we're counting this very hard on the thumb, it's 490 euros per person. According to your assessment, only 100 euros would be spent by any person who receives this €490 per year. Where would I put 390 euros? In my pocket, in my sock, in my bank in Austria, where? On the one hand, you pass debt write-off laws, and on the other hand, you don't legally give people that money. Where is the logic of the Ministry of Finance, or is it the government? I guarantee you that those with the lowest income would spend it all because they need it for their lives. Those with a little higher might not spend the first day of all, but they would certainly live with that money, so they would spend it, buy other goods. In any case, that money would come back. For none of these 490 euros on average per year would be held under a mattress until the end of their days, but the tax office would be deprived of that money. When you are so opposed to all the measures that would somehow give people oxygen for everyday life, there is no problem when we talk about the state taking. When, despite economic growth, it has consistently accepted a 2% increase in VAT, it has taken 240 million euros from all of us. So there's no problem here. When the state takes out our wallets, there's no problem. Come in. Since one minister recalls that Sava must go to the DUTB SDH, there is an additional EUR 40 million and EUR 50 million, although this means additional costs for DUTB, an additional 50 million, there are no problems again. Then we have a migration problem – EUR 123 million, no problems. When the question arises that the state should reduce itself, i.e. the apparatus, and that money directly into taxpayers' wallets, then the problem arises. We're not gonna make it. We can't even solve this. I see I'm running out of time, even though there's something else I'd like to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you. All I have to do is replicate Mr. Logar. I didn't say don't rush, I said you had to make structural changes before. As long as you take it. I agree, you can laugh, you're old fighters here, so it's clear to me. The speed of these structural measures is a matter of debate. That we're here for a year and a half is a fact. I'll do one other question. So far, in these 25 years, what has done to make this restructuring of the tax burdens happen? That's one big question again. Whether you believe it or not, we are pressing both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Economy, both to do so and to take these measures. We can also debate how up-to-date they are, how willing they are to do this, it's all a matter of debate. But in fact we do and really want – both SMC and I and, like Tillen, who we have these things in mind somehow – that this burden of tax burden is somehow being restructured. Secondly, the VAT was not raised by this government, but by Alenka Bratušek. Just enough to get our ideas straight. Loading or not burdening companies with tax boxes is also a matter of one debate, but we are now really talking about how much we would like to restructure this tax burden. I think it's important. As I said before, this government and the ministry are aware that both capital and property are undertaxed. In this segment, something has to be done, including whether 13 is paid or not. I think there's still a lot of things to sort out, but it's also on the gentlemen on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl and Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u60	I, too, undermine the social state, but we have different visions of what a social state is. For me, the social state is one that does everything to ensure that people can work normally, pay taxes and live from their work, and the country takes care of those who cannot help themselves for such or other reasons. The relevant tax policy is also part of the social state for me. What we propose, therefore, is a higher tax relief, will help to make less social transfers necessary. I think it's humiliating for people to work and at least have a minimum wage, but they can't live on it. For me, social transfers can also be humiliating for someone. So let's let that salary that people get then be fairly and properly taxed and not need so many transfers or different scholarships. Why must the state constantly interfere with the lives of citizens with unnecessary measures? When we had interpellations, we heard what these ministers and the government did to increase social transfers. This is a very bad policy for me. I wouldn't brag about it. For me, a successful country is one where people do not need social transfers because they can live off their salaries. That's why it's not a compliment to me. How has unemployment been reduced? Why? Because people don't have a job and they go across the border. Thank God they need this workforce there, and people can make money. What do we do? But with us, they have to pay that difference again, and we all know that we have a problem because they've merged with the Apache Civil Initiative. When I weigh these things, I also wonder if they've been looking for a job there, there's a higher tax relief, and we're putting an extra burden on them here. At the same time, it is not right, because we too are so heavily burdened, so we are in an unequal position, because if they were forgiven, we would have left with such a low tax relief. When we weighed this, we came up with this solution to do this for all citizens equally. How many times do we hear in this House that it is not the right policy to save, but we have to spend. How many times have we heard that from the United Left, from the SD, and probably from someone else? How are we gonna spend if we don't have the money? We can spend it if we have it. Greater tax relief will also help people to spend more easily, and we will create an even more stimulating economic environment in this way. That is why I am convinced that our proposal is going in the right direction and that with some clever debate and perhaps with some additions we can come to an appropriate result. Then it would not be necessary for a civilian initiative of Apache to make such and different proposals, but would put all citizens in the same initial situation. I agree that those who are more decent, more entrepreneurial, more creative, more labourable, that they have more and pay higher taxes now, as they will also continue to pay higher taxes. But you want to prove to us all the time, or at least some, that those who have higher wages don't contribute so much to the state treasury. Of course, they contribute more, and then there are no such benefits in paying for kindergartens, no scholarships, and so on. In the end, one wonders if it is worth paying someone so much more, since in the end there is virtually nothing left of it; and those who have the lowest — I allow them to have higher — must receive some social transfers. So again, as we have done several times before, we have managed to find better solutions together, so that this law is also adopted at first reading and that we will then make some additions together so that it can then live in life.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Tillen Bozič. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In a way, I am pleased by this debate in the sense that somehow we are all trying to find the best possible solutions; to find solutions that will be in the interests of citizens and citizens and, of course, also of countries. Oh, yeah! I am already in the opening statement or in explanation of the Group's position, and some key points my colleague, Maria Antonija Kovacič, said that in Desus we are advocating a tax policy that will be fair and will in some way burden more those who have higher incomes, higher incomes and, of course, burden those who do not have it. However, the basic point is that income legislation is viewed separately from fiscal, apart from transfer policy is of course pointless. You have to watch it all. We are simply not in favour, we find such a solution inappropriate and unfair. That's a fact. To substantiate: not tax relief in the interest of the privileged. This is simply unacceptable for us, this is not acceptable for the social state in the true sense of the word. However, if I do listen to the proposer, of course, it advocates that we in some way burden as many people as possible, including those with higher incomes, more inflows to increase consumption; but I ask myself, with this concrete measure, with an increase of €7,000 in tax relief, whether all this loss can be compensated by consumption. My dears, that's half a billion, 490 or how many millions have been calculated in the finances. I am sure that we will simply not be able to renovate, neutralise all of this with greater consumption by these multiplier effects and so on. And then what are we going to do when aspirations, not aspirations, the need for such and other transfers are set up, to raise pensions that have not worked for ten years before this year – how are we going to secure these funds? I don't know what to do. It is very nice to compare ourselves with countries when it is appropriate for us to do so. I wish there was as little burden as possible, that we didn't have to pay anything, but somewhere in the sky, that money fell for the socially disadvantaged, for the pensioners, for the children, and so on, but it just didn't go away. It's not working. When we talk about fiscal policy, about taxation in general, of course, I would like a much higher, much higher taxation of capital. And when we're doing comparisons with countries where maybe there's a slightly less burdened end user if you want the cost of work; yes there's a higher burden of capital and it goes with each other. Comrade Horvat spoke, the basic point of entrepreneurship is cutting, lowering costs. Of course, purely legitimate thinking and proper thinking, economic thinking. I just hope that this thinking does not cover the costs of employees or employees as well as those for many – but I do not speak for everything, thank God – for all those entrepreneurs, the cost of non-diggage needs must be minimised and the rights of workers should be minimised to the foundation. Of course I don't want that to happen. Summary in the whole story: I expect or look forward to any further discussion of the so-called UTD – universal core income. It is worth talking about, and it is possible to continue this debate in some way today. With regard to the proposal for an amendment to the Income Act, I reiterate: no, no and no – simply because it is not my taste and I think it is inappropriate and unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u63	Here you go, proposer, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. My colleague Uroš Prikl knows that Nova Slovenija is advocating a social market model for the economy. After 35 visits we made on the ground in small, medium-sized, micro-enterprises since 2012. Comrade Prikl, joint denominator of these entrepreneurs, is the owner of the directors: our greatest wealth are our workers. How much do we do to make them pay better? Now it's a shame that there's about 40,000 people with a minimum. Shameful! And it is also shameful that those who pretend not to pay contributions are not yet in prison. That's your job.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Why do I keep asking myself, should Slovenia be in the area of income, as far as tax collection is concerned, such a specific country within European neighbouring countries? The overall relief that we now have, which is at 3 000 302.70 euros, is not comparable to European relief. We are saying that Slovenia will be a European state, Switzerland in small terms, and when Nova Slovenija proposes, we will raise the overall relief to €7,000, because we will relieve those who receive the lowest income in our country, the minimum income, you say: no. But now there's only one thing I'm interested in, fellow Desus, and I'm going a step further than my colleague, Joseph Horvat. Does Desus agree to say that whoever receives a minimum wage or less in this country is exempt from all taxes? Don't pay any income. Do you agree? I think this is the right step and the right signal for all those in this country who receive such shamefully low incomes that they cannot survive through the month of themselves and their families. And then we hear about child support, about school funds, where there's money for those who can't go on a school trip or a field trip. I'm talking about those, really, my colleague Horvat said there were 40,000 of them. And we're helping these 40,000 people! We help and at the same time create climate in this social market economy, that it will move one step forward and that we will all work in the same direction, that these shamefully low wages will rise and that people can live. As I understand it in fact, we will say that there are some European directives, but you know, we are citing ourselves on the European directive or on Europe when we do not want to say that we ourselves are guilty of the situation in the country. We ourselves have said that our workers deserve only 3,000 302.70 euros in income relief. That's not what Europe said. And once again, my colleagues from Desus [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Christmas has the word, and then we have the final part. Here you go, Mr. Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. This time I do, I have to admit, a lot of time, at least as I can see by the hour, 22 minutes, so I can put a little bit on the line. One of the interesting ones I would like to raise was one debate that mentioned Laffer's curve. So this concept, this curve, when you have on one side of the tax collection, you have, say, a tax rate of nothing to 100, and then you're looking at the point where you're looking for the maximum, where you're going to pick up the tax rate you have, the most tax rate, and when you start, like you said, I think Mr. Pogačnik, beat or kick a dead donkey. The first thing I think should be highlighted here is that the Laffer curve is a theoretical concept and is merely theoretical. There are no such two variables anywhere in life. We have a plaza of tax rates, we have a platform of variables that actually affect how much taxes someone will collect. If we look at the isolation of such variables that it will work so well and that you will figure out where this point is, it is virtually impossible. If I give you examples of how this is going to be somehow clearer. What it means is that isolation is not possible in some way, so you say, we lower taxes, and in the end, more taxes will be collected. And then there was the case of the United States, that's where it started in the early '80s. Probably in those two, three years, when they also raised the military budget by 50%, it had no impact. It's probably an extensive monetary policy that didn't have an impact on that in those years. I mean, there are certain effects here that are extremely large, and that you lower one percent to that top one percent, or you lower the top ten percent, and that's why you're going to collect more taxes, in these tectonic movements that they've been experiencing at the time, I think it's statistically significant to exclude them from this system in my way. The second point is that this has proved to be more than one phrase. So, there you have, in the U.S. you have one time side, one time a Democrat and a Republican; when the Republicans come, you'll have Laffer's curve and that sentence they'll repeat all the time, and when you have the Democrats, you'll have the opposite. Even if you look at how taxes grow, how they move, for a time they go up, for a time they go down, and you can always, it is said, with almost 100 percent probability you will be struck if you just guess whether they were Democrats or Republicans at the time. So these are some ideological concepts and now to base some changes on the ideological concept, I don't think it's appropriate, you have to look at everything else. Because then we can also come up with such flawed findings, and let's see what I know how much Danish wages there are, how much this tax wedge is in Denmark or Belgium, after all, because I think they're already there at 55%, and you'll find that they've been kicking this dead donkey for quite some time. I'm not saying they're not overburdened there, but what I'm saying is that things aren't so uniform. So it's not about two variables or two dimensionality, we always have 100- and multi-dimensionality here, and it's impossible to define one or two. This can really be just some theoretical discourse, but we can't come if someone wants to deal with this a little bit more, otherwise you have a neoliberal current that speaks one, on the other hand you can look a little bit newer than some comments, I don't know, from which Krugman, and then there's that other part, because you always have criticism on both sides. After all these comparisons, because I mentioned Belgium earlier, let's say. What's interesting is that in the material we got, we have Austria, Italy, Finland. If you look at the tax haven of these countries, they're all above Slovenia. All three of them. If we go: Slovenia 42,6, Finland 43,9, Italy, I think it's 49, I apologize for Austria, I think there's about 50 or just under there, somewhere. But I'm sure it's over Slovenia. If we look further at that the initiative is right; the initiative is right in the part where we talk about this step-by-step facilitation, the approach is somehow unfair. For that one cent, someone can come into a situation where 10 euros more has to pay income, it is said, with virtually equal gross income, there is a substantial difference in net income and it is unfair that someone has such a difference in taxes. Then it's another matter. As we continue to talk about what is going to happen with such a big change, it is said that you say, but now everyone will have a general relief of €7,000, and then that effect of €490 or about half a billion, and we get to that cartoon that was a few days ago, it seems to me that it is better to illustrate this situation. I think there was a marble, and there was a kid, and I think he's holding a lollipop or something, and then he takes the dinars out of his pocket. And that's how it works. That would be better illustrated — by this cartoon. Why? Because someone - and you said so yourself - would earn about €6 a month immediately. If we were to reduce funds at the community level, it could already be, we would all want it to be higher, but it's not, it's 200, 250 million euros. That means that someone who has a child and already has such a low salary is going to bring someone to tell him all of a sudden, you know, and you're not going to have any more subsidies, I don't know, 70-, 80-percent, but you know, now the situation has changed a little bit. You know, those with very high salaries are now paying almost 2,000 euros a year in the total budget, and that's why you'll be, I don't know, 500 euros more. But 500 euros for someone like that means a lot more. It could mean a lot of trouble for him. The proposalr has already referred to or related several times, such as certain phrases, if any, to children and so on. In this case, it's really about the kids. Someone who has two kids at home and two parents on low wages to do this to him — I don't know what they're doing. I really don't know. That he has an annual level, I don't know what suddenly falls from somewhere, but he has a thousand euros to spend on the annual kindergarten. These are things that somehow don't go exactly together. Thus, if we work with those who have very low incomes and go there for EUR 5, and then lose much more through the system of transfers, it is also in some ways very awkward and difficult to justify. Because when we look at the curve of taxation, we don't just look at income, we look at social contributions. You're always looking at some composition; you take, I don't know, the case of a father or someone who is alone in a household – a mother, anyway, it's not necessarily a mother, a father, but it's a – let's look at him, look at someone who's a single parent, a mother or a father with a child, see what the effect is, say all the transfers, is how much his income is, two parents with one, two, three children – different combinations. We're looking at a wide range of households then, too. For each of these classes, you make a curve in which you figure out, in order, it accelerates too quickly, too slowly, it should otherwise, more redistribution, less redistribution. And what's at least fair is that in a graph like this, you find tips all of a sudden. It is said that because of one euro more will have to pay more than 50 euros per month for kindergarten or one euro more will have to pay 100 euros or 150 euros more per year. These are the spikes that can't be. This is what is necessary, but it is a demanding part, and therefore I say that there are no simple solutions in this area. Because if they were, they'd have been introduced by now. That's a fact. These things need to be modelled so hard that they eventually drink at least roughly water. In fact, I think we should let our system stand, we'd like to have more money inside, but it works. Certain things are unfair, they need to be fixed, but in the grave they work somehow, there is some balance, after all this balance is also being established again. It has already been said that we have come out of the kind of surplus deficit procedure that was, I say, heavy glass both on the state and on the economy due to interest rates and so on, because this is then directly passed on to those who are doing business. From here on out, when we talk, say, yes, this will only apply 2018. Yes, and we are approaching, the medium-term fiscal target, we are approaching a structural deficit to zero by 2020. In the meantime, once in 2018, our structural deficit will increase, I don't know, by a percentage and a percentage and a half. These are, however, although this seems far away – 2018, major structural changes for public finances, even for the event, and it is still here in certain matters – I am not saying that it is not possible, but it is certainly impossible to say with a scale that this is very simple; that everyone can do so. You'll just pick up the pace and we'll see, and then in two years, we'll be looking at why it happened. Because even when we are talking about this partiality, why is it also somehow my view that this is welcome at least in that now that we are talking about how to restructure the tax burden, we also need to talk about it and see if we can find a solution. [[…]] Why? Because when you start putting such things in, it means that you probably have to adjust the income scale and something else at the same time. And you get into a situation where you find that you have to have a relatively large number of open articles; you say, you have to look in whole, and you can't just give a candy because if you give a candy first, never again, and I think that some governments felt pretty good when they went to cut taxes, but at the same time the reforms weren't made because we had all of a sudden severe deficit problems, that was a few years ago, and now it's a chance to get into this situation. [[…]] So you have to look both ways, always. What I have other interesting things to do, however, is precisely about this simplicity of the solution. If you have a car and you drive with it, one very simple solution. You say I have this car, but it does, it has a ton, let's give it a simple solution, let's reduce its mass by at least five decagrams. And what's coming? I'm squeezing his pedal from the chute, from the brake – to express myself nicely that it's not too much for the seashore – and I saved it. I saved my way to the first intersection. You didn't save it! You could have done one very small thing on the mass of a car, and so you say so, because we're only going to raise this general relief a little bit, because now those with low incomes are going to have 6,000 500 euros in relief, and now they're actually going to have more 480 euros in relief. This is a pair of ten Euros of income at the annual level. Yeah, but when you screw this up a little bit, you find there's half a billion in there. That is why I am also saying once again that there are no simple solutions. When we talk here about who is being helped — always when we talk about general relief or this degree, anyway, or changes in general relief, when we count on the effect on public finances or on taxes collected, we do not look at the effective tax rate or the lowest income class, we see the marginal tax class. Because someone who has 50,000 euros and has an additional allowance of 2,000, or 3,000, or 4,000 euros, he will pay less than 41% of the tax for that share. Or someone who earns 100,000 euros a year will pay less than 50% of the tax, will not pay 16% of the tax. This 16% tax accident, which is only 16%, is borne by those who have the lowest income. As far as the comparability of the facilities and this is concerned. You can't compare only by making things easier for you. A lot of things are different between countries – I think, if we go very wide – from GDP to population and so on to economic structure. Even us, if we look at it, for example, you won't find anywhere to take us to work and have lunch without taxes. Nowhere in general. That's what we have. Even though it's part of the salary and somehow it's forgotten. That's not enough. For example, if we look at statistics, we find ourselves there among a thousand 200 on average, I don't know if a thousand 200 to thousands of 500 euros are on an annual basis. But anyway, if you count this, if you compare general reliefs, we'll take that as a general relief, and we'll see how much it is. Some countries, for example, have situations when social contributions are charged, we deduct them from the tax base – some do not, they charge the income even on that. [[…]] This is not the case once again, and it always depends on what stage of development is the historical aspect of the country, including the development of the tax system. So easy to pull some parallels or pick up from some tax systems a certain garlic – it is not possible. I don't know where I was last heard, we were out there somewhere, I was listening to one thing, and one of them said we should have an English tax system. I had a chance to study him a little, and I'm telling you, it would be really interesting if we had him. However, the debate would be significantly more turbulent than what we have now, when we are just talking about how the tax burden would be restructured. And you can't even figure out how much you owe to the state, not to mention what it looks like to calculate in America, how much you owe to a country that has 50 pages of foot, through which you're tapping and looking and finally calculating your own punishment yourself. So there are different systems, different logics, so there's definitely no simplifying. But if I didn't, I think I would end in any neutral or negative way, I would end in any way positive, and that is that it is a problem that it will have to be cut at some point in time, because it's not fair that someone for, I don't know, one cent pays a hundred Euros more tax. It just doesn't work. In this context, a solution will have to be found; there is a lot of solution; in my understanding and conduct, we are one of few, if not the only country that has this relief done, but there are other comparable systems that are to be considered, examined, and then perhaps, if this is possible, even recalculated, calculated what this means, and placed in tax restructuring, because this is probably nothing more than tax restructuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which they will get the word first from the representative of the Government and then from the proposer. Here you go, ma'am. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much again for your word. Let me repeat a few key points in the introduction and interim interventions. First of all, one of our goals must be to relieve the burdens or costs of work, but they must be burdened in a publicly funded way. Not because we want to follow some imaginary rules that have no direct or indirect relationship with people, but because we want to ensure a stable public financial environment for people and economic operators, which is a prerequisite for us to ensure stable economic growth at all. When one of the discussers wondered who was important to us, we all care about the same person, citizen, tax resident of the Republic of Slovenia. It also seems important to me to note that our wages, our incomes, are defined as gross wages. We talk about net salary all the time. Yes, the net salary is what we get, each one of us, in our pocket or with which we can directly dispose. But because of the social security system that we have decided together, we have also decided to co-finance it with a work called social security contributions that are paid from our incomes, wages and other incomes to other people who have or are engaged in other forms of work. And the resources spent in the state budget are also heavily spent directly on people: either in the form of social transfers or in the form of providing conditions for the work of the various public institutions, which in many debates we would like to support in their efforts to have more resources at our disposal. The talk was that unemployment in Slovenia is only declining because people are going to work abroad. Unfortunately, the outflow or number of Slovenians who go to work abroad is high, but the data shows that the number of employees in Slovenia has been increasing for the past two years. Therefore, this claim that the reduction of unemployment is taking place at the expense of eviction or eviction alone is not true, since, in fact, the figures indicating a steady increase in the number of employees in Slovenia do not confirm such a solution or such a decision. It takes into account everything that has been said and takes into account today's debate, I can conclude from the debate that it is our common desire or direction to find a way to relieve work, especially those forms of work that are overly burdensome in Slovenia, but we must also take care of the general public financial situation or the stability of public finances. The estimated budget shortfall of 490 million is such that it can pose a serious threat to the stability of the public financial system. One of the discussers also used a vivid illustration in his debate that you can beat a dead donkey so much that you can't pull the load forward. True, but it is also true that we must not wait two years for the fat donkey to die in between and then encourage him to stand up. What is proposed means that some changes in the very narrow segment would take place in two years, not today, tomorrow, but in two years. Our assessment is that solutions to the high workload need to be sought faster, and that is why we are still working to find the broadest possible consensus between the public concerned for tax restructuring projects. I would like to present to you, in the coming months, concrete solutions in this area, both in the overall workload and in the resolution of certain specific problems that specific groups of taxpayers face for income, and some of them have been mentioned today. One group is migrant workers, and another group, for example, are researchers who leave or are assigned to work abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much. First of all, I will thank the Secretary of State and, of course, I sincerely want the Government to come to this high assembly as soon as possible with solutions, concrete solutions that we have been waiting for two years; and believe, if they are good, concrete, we will support them in New Slovenia. Right now, I'm gonna say in advance that we're not interested in cosmetic repairs, really. See, if I, for example, am a potential investor, I will probably look, among other things, at wage taxation in OECD countries in 2015. I suggest you take a look at this, colleagues and colleagues, you won't be in a good mood. Comrade Tillen Christmas has wasted a lot of theory on all of us; I hope the taxpayers, the taxpayers, understand you financially. You have had a lot of comments on our solution, and I now expect you to make some kind of package of laws there by the end of your parliamentary holidays, which will take account of all of this, as you have said. You obviously have significantly easier access to different mathematical models and so on and so on. But I have a much closer discussion here with a colleague of Mark Ferluge's. He understands. He hit a nail on the head and then he hit us quite a bit – New Slovenia, plus SDS, plus Marko Ferluga, plus Commissioner Violeta Tomic, the pardon Violeta Bulc, who encouraged us on our last visit to the European Union Affairs Committee for structural reforms. We need to change the structure of this country; we need to change the governance structure of this country. That's what this is about. We understand that our marriage is worth half a billion, slightly less or substantially less, say substantially less tax revenue. But that's why you have to come up with other solutions. With this law, ladies and gentlemen, we will not come again in a year because it would not be fair, because then we are only half a year before the beginning of 2018. It is therefore necessary to come with solutions now, if there are no concrete solutions immediately after the parliamentary holidays, it is over. It's over with this mandate and they've been lost for four years. That the congregations will be harmed because of our salvation — of course they will! And you know that if someone, then just New Slovenia is fighting for the principle of subsidiarity for local self-government. But we will support a good solution for the Real Estate Tax Act, which will respect all the principles that tax legislation must respect – justice, ethics, morality and so on. Why? Because everywhere around the world property tax is one of the basic tax revenues or revenues of local communities. Yeah, that's how these things work. And very quickly, because colleague Tillen Christmas also mentioned the income scale. When we review the table without any major difficulty, we find that we are Slovenian income taxpayers among the most taxed in the world, because when we enter the 41% income class in Slovenia at 20,000 euro, we are in Montenegro at 9%, so we are at 41, in Montenegro at 9, in Serbia at 10, in Germany at 14%, in the United States, as also mentioned by colleague Bozič, at 15%, in Italy at 27%, in Austria at 36.5%. When we enter the 50% income class in Slovenia at 70 000 euros, in Slovenia at 9%, in Serbia at 15, in the US at 25, in Poland at 33%, in Italy at 41%, in Germany at 42%, only in Austria at 50%, as in us. That's it. Yeah, it's a complex matter to deal with, and we've actually started off from how much we're spending, how much money we have to have to survive in this country. As Madam Secretary of State said: a person must be at the forefront of us; a man, a citizen, to feel well, secure in this country. And here we are. The poverty risk threshold at the annual level, see Ministry website, 7 000 111 for last year. More in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We haven't completely wasted our time yet. If there's any other desire for a debate, please. Anybody else want some? All right, then I'd like you to sign in. If you would also like to discuss the proposal's representative, Jožef Horvat and the representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the microphone button. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You must have been engaged because you said we didn't spend the whole time. I think that we have spent it very usefully and very wisely, and I am truly grateful to all the parliamentary groups and to all those who have applied for the debate, of course, also to the Government. Maybe we didn't talk enough about migrant workers, but I'm glad that the secretary of state also remembered, and now I'm going to specifically say, to researchers, say, from the Institute of Joseph Stefan, who worked or worked at Stanford, for example, and then come back and get one big income bill. We know why. If we go now, we will look closer at one resident of the Republic of Slovenia who works in Austria. From this place, I've said at least once that in my parliamentary group there are people who get receipts and ask me, Jože, do I have to pay this? I say, of course you have to pay, taxes are mandatory, taxes must be paid. He's calm and he's leaving. I'll tell him he should try to take advantage of the possibility of paying for meals if there's a large amount. But you know what I'm worried about right now, I tell you the truth, and now more and more people are coming to me and saying how the residence is changing. I say, for God's sake, stay in Slovenia. If only one came, my heart would break. But the thing is, you'll understand, because you're probably not dealing with it. Within 7 days of the first salary received from the employment contract, you have to make a forecast for the rate of payment of the income. Step two; if you are a resident and work in Austria, you will also enter all your expenses in the forecast; lunch — €612 — times the number of days and kilometres times 0.18 euros. The third time you make a statement, you get a decision that gives you an account and an amount that you're going to pay for your income. Then you get an informational calculation, where, I emphasise, the costs you've already reported are unaccounted for. So you have the amount to pay your income, a concrete example, 3 000 600 euros, and the correct calculation is a thousand 100 euros. About 2,000 and a half! Now I wonder if you think everyone is functionally literate and tax-written. They're not! Some say, well, 3,000 600 — a lot of money — and somehow they pay for it. But the country is quiet. So you must, I warn all the residents who work in Austria, you must make an objection to the IT calculation and come again with concrete information, how many days you worked, how many miles you drove, how many times you took lunch from home and so on. Look, this is a procedure from 20 years ago! I don't know if this really works out differently, but I'm bitter, I'm really bitter when people come to me and show me an informational calculation and then I find all this because I didn't know that this process was so bad, so diplomatically, so bad, so inconsistently, so unconstitutionally, so unconstitutionally, that it was happening to the citizen. I am really surprised, I am offended as a Member, that the country has such a stepmotherly attitude towards these people who are improving the standards that are reducing our employment, and I hope that they will not really move out. I hope that once the government will come with some concrete solutions; whether this will be like ours, a general relief of €7,000, because we thought here, it is clear, at the annual risk of poverty, because we also thought about workers who are migrant workers in Austria. So I count that there is still time before the vote on this proposal and the solutions of colleagues and colleagues from Desus – I think we are very much together. We will support the step-by-step relief, but we must go to another reading, another reading. SMC also said, interesting idea – let's go on with this idea. Let us continue with the second reading and then model and optimize the solution there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 21 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 6. In the context of the votes. I'm putting an end to the 14th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE CASTAR REVENUE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Matei Vranictor Erman. Here you go, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u76	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members! At the initiative of the public concerned, the government has drawn up a new Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which significantly simplifies the method of identification of KD. The law was prepared on the basis of the guidance of the expert working group, in which all the government departments involved and the farmers' association were involved. The law regulates a flat-rate assessment of the potential market income of agricultural and forestry land. This is the starting point for determining the tax base in the exercise of agricultural and forestry activities, as well as for determining farmers' contributions to pension and health allowance and for deciding on eligibility for social transfers. It is therefore extremely important that the flat-rate assessment of potential market income is as close to the actual situation as possible. On the other hand, the flat-rate assessment seeks another objective: simplicity and transparency. The law currently in force was made aware of the complexity and impreciseness of giving a greater weight to the starting point that the flat-rate assessment should be as close as possible to the actual level of income. The result of this direction and complexity was that the identification of cadastral income had been frozen for three years until a new solution was prepared. This period expires this year, unless the law has been adopted, the procedures currently in force for 2017 should be re-activated. The advantage of the new method is not only in simplicity but also in integrity. The new method will cover virtually all agricultural crops in the identification of cadastral income, following a new special intensive culture for which income has to be determined on the basis of accounting. The substantial underestimation of cadastral income in the current transitional regime will increase the total cadastral income from the current around €41 million to around €100 million. The land of natural persons is less than 75 % of this amount, and in fact only around 64 % of this amount, i.e. 64 million cadastral income, will be taxed due to the exemption of farm households with up to 200 euros of flat-rate income. In view of the expected increase, a transitional transitional period of 3 years is proposed to gradually increase the new cadastral income to a final value of 40 % for 2017, 55% for 2018 and 75% for 2019 to the newly calculated amounts. In addition, the income system will provide for a transitional period where a mechanism will be established which will limit more than twice the increase in the cadastral income of individual farmers in relation to the previous year. The bill was widely coordinated both within government departments and for the public concerned. Before submitting the law to the National Assembly, the proposal was coordinated with the public concerned to the extent that they also agreed that the proposal could serve as a suitable basis for the continuation of the procedure. However, the government party has committed itself to continuing the dialogue with the public concerned as regards the clarification of individual solutions in the proposal for a cadastral income law, as well as the solutions to the proposal for a new Income Act. These amendments to the Income Act are also announced in the explanation of the law before us. As I have already said, the adoption of law is very important for the smooth functioning of a whole range of public functions. Due to the many administrative simplifications it brings or makes possible, it is also important for farmers themselves, and it is therefore important that the law be adopted so that it can be enforced by 2017. In accordance with that Government, it proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be approved as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Simon Zajc will transfer the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Members' Common SMC, we welcome the long-standing preparation of the new Cadastrian Income Law. It should be noted that the applicable Cadastrian Income Identification Act has been prepared to bind the assessment of KD to new land data, as old data, i.e. data on cadastral cultures and classes, were not up-to-date and therefore unreliable. In particular, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that these data on the land disaster should be discontinued. In addition, the profession has found that it is important to know that the method in force before is no longer suitable for updating KD calculations that have been obsolete and significantly underestimated in view of the actual economic situation. It was therefore necessary to develop and implement a new method based on new data on the quality of agricultural and forestry land, i.e. credits and growth coefficients, taking into account the information on the more detailed type of land used for all agricultural land in the Republic of Slovenia by the Ministry responsible for agriculture. As regards the solution of the new KD prepared by this Government, it should also be pointed out that it was based on a decision of 30. 8. 2013 established working group composed of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, experts in the field of agricultural economy, certain professional institutions and also interest associations – i.e. the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, the Association of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia participated – and assigned it the task of verifying the appropriateness of the new method and preparing proposals for better solutions. In anticipation of the findings of the Working Group, a new amendment to the Cadastrian Income Identification Act was introduced in 2014, which provided that cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment on bees were determined in 2014, 2015, 2016 as set out in 2013 and that the annual calculation procedure of KD for those years was not carried out. This freezes KD to the level set by the then amendment for 2013. If we do not adopt a new law, a method of identification of KD will be introduced under the current law, but it does not show a real income assessment, which would not be good for a Slovenian farmer. As a result, a new method of determining cadastral income is needed as soon as possible. It is necessary to enforce a government law that will mainly regulate the method of identification of KDs by which, on the basis of the available data and in the most understandable way, a real income is determined and thus treats all natural persons in a comparable manner. The proposal for a government law proposes the following solutions: KD calculations are based on aggregate data from the economic account for agriculture and forestry. Production of intensive cultures will also be included in the basic agricultural activity under the new KD law. Thus, the production of strawberries, asparagus, intensive gardening, the cultivation of snails and so on, resulting in the fact that these products will no longer have to be invoiced, the tax collectors will therefore be excluded. Catastrophe income for individual types of production related to agricultural and forest land uses shall be determined as the income of each type of production, then reduced by a certain share of the costs determined on the basis of the share of the costs in the total economic account for agricultural or forestry activities. The KD shall be determined in the production capacity classes for agricultural land on the basis of the credit points and for forest land on the basis of the growth coefficient. The correction of the KD shall be maintained due to the limited possibility of production in the areas of specific farming and forest management regimes. KD and flat-rate bee income estimates shall be determined every 3 years on the basis of the previous 5-year average. It should certainly be stressed that in the SMC Group we have an understanding for agriculture and especially for small farms. This is why we have proposed a transitional period in government law, which will take into account that only 40% of the calculated amount of KD is taken into account in 2017 and will then gradually increase until full implementation. It is also worth noting that for most farmers, i.e. 74 %, KD will be so low after full application that they will not pay any income from this title; therefore, small farmers have nothing to fear. After the end of the transitional period, the KD will on average be €216 per year per household, as then converted into income, taking into account the percentages of 2014, amounts to €37. From all of this, the SMC Group will support the Cadastrian Income Identification Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u80	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Again, we have the Cadastrian Income Act under consideration. It is not long before our parliamentary group has passed the law to postpone the adoption of this law for a while and to reconsider how agricultural land and forests should be taxed. Well, the current government has decided to adopt this cadastral income or this law by the end of July, which is to say that this law can enter into force in the following year. In fact, calculations, it seems, were in the past that they were too low, to achieve in agriculture and forestry essentially ex-money brings to a unit of surfaces as it used to be. Part of it is true, but the simplest calculation of this cadastral is, or the most people will understand, that I'm trying to illustrate a little about what it's like with forests. The forest is also managed, but the trees in the forest grow at the same rate as they used to, and income is probably not different or significantly higher than it used to be. Our Austrian neighbours haven't changed the way agricultural land and forests are taxed in 50 years. This is also an instrument of tax incentive for them, so agriculture is developing in them and it is failing in us. If you have a regulated rural area, you also have the basis for the development of rural tourism. Let us not forget that in the countryside there are also thermal spas, which are the only real rural tourism we have. With us, this has already managed to bring both of our experts to their knees, so that this tourism is not enough and it will be even less. At the very least, every government should remember that high taxes have never, anywhere in the history of human society, raised economic growth, employment and thus the well-being of citizens. Taxes are to be raised only during the period of overheated economy and the Slovenian economy is still in the ice age. High taxes only bring prosperity to a specific layer of society, saying red tape and people from other layers of society moving to work abroad. The purpose of the taxes is not only to fill the state cash register. Taxes also promote or hinder certain economic activities. The tax system is also an important instrument for each country's economic policy. Citizens or taxpayers are also aware that taxes have never been just and will never be fair to everyone in any country. Taxes are always too big, it's our human nature. However, we expect citizens who pay the officials who run and regulate this system to run this system at least so that the tax system is based on properly calculated tax bases and proper tax procedures. How can the state expect citizens to pay these taxes if these same people always feel that the state is cheating on them? In preparing this new legislation, this is about the Cadastrian Income Law, there was a whole lot of coordination – according to the Government; also with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. Cooperation or coordination should be with both the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. However, coordination has apparently not been finalized in the view of those representing farmers in order to be satisfied. Something has only been achieved, so in forestry, in the calculation of KD, 80 % of the costs are recognised, and the same is true in beekeepers. At least once the cost has been recognised as part of the economic calculation. The calculation of KD in previous periods was based on the sub-menu that the cost of living generated by forestry or agricultural production as part of income is not true. What is KD anyway? Catastrophe income as a form of indirect tax comes from the end of the 18th century from the first attempts to introduce a cadastral and a list of properties on the ground of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy. By then, from then on, subjects on the estate paid taxes only to the farmer or landowner in the natural world or in the compulsory pressure and later in the money. Capitalism, which had already appeared, was not paid by the clergy and the feudal people, so Franz Joseph II was. The hotel will end this by introducing a cadastral, a list of ownership and calculation of income from forests and agricultural land. This inventory also provided the basis for the imposition of the property tax according to the size of the cadastral income. The old Kingdom of Yugoslavia, of which we were taught that it was a prisoner of nations and a semi-Fedal state, was charged by the land tax similar to that of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Catastrophe income was taken only as a tax base and tax was calculated by a certain percentage. In 1937, the forest income tax was 10 % of the KD calculated. However, today's form of cadastral income is attributed to personal income by the socialist Yugoslavia immediately after 1945, and the independent Slovenia has adopted this form of modified feudal tax since the former Yugoslavia. We are the only one in Europe who knows this form of tax. Although the Italians have a cadastral income, they calculate it differently than we do. The only thing that's the same is the title. The cadastral income of forests shall be determined per hectare of forest land in one year. The basis for the calculation of cadastral income is the average intervention, the structure of forest forest forest ranges, their market value, the growth coefficient, this is the growth in the forest, and the configuration of the terrain that directly affects the costs of forest production. Only the material costs of forest management are taken into account as a cost, and human work is not taken into account in these calculations. On average, in private forests of Slovenia, the amount of cadastral income varies from EUR 50 to EUR 100 per hectare. These EUR 50 to 100 are credited each year to the remaining revenue of the forest owner and the total revenue is charged. What is at stake in this regard, in our view? The currently calculated cadastral income, at least in the forests, is calculated more or less correctly, at least on average. They coincide with already calculated forest rents already provided in the regional economic and farming plans. A normal person therefore wonders why it took so long to calculate, meet and coordinate that we finally came to the results that have long been known to foresters. They even hired an agricultural expert at the Forestry Institute, that is to say, a villain to calculate cadastral revenues for forests. Computers and computers, revised and coordinated the results, presented new calculations at each meeting, and finally obtained results that are calculated and recorded by foresters every ten years in the forestry and economic plans. These are made and are also mandatory for every square meter of private forest in Slovenia, from 1950 onwards. A law shall be adopted which shall impose an additional burden on the special farmers by at least 50%. The higher burden comes at a time when farmers year after year are plagued by natural grips such as colds, snowfalls, and foresters or forest owners like lugadar. However, although it is proposed in Parliament that the adoption of legislation should be retained for at least a short period of time. That was our proposal. That doesn't help. Our authority just thinks that people should be turned around at all costs. If there's no money, how will the government live? Back in elementary school, we were taught how wicked the townspeople were when they imposed a tithe on the subjects and our authority imposed on us the nineties — nothing at all. We're paying. Catastrophe income is calculated whether or not the forest owner has been cutting or investing in the forest. After this concept, profit is already an increase in the forest, but income and profits are generated only by selling wood on the market. As long as the wood stays in the forest, uncut, it doesn't yield any income. As well as the unscathed corn in the autumn and the rest in the field will not yield any income. The only fair taxation in forestry would be that the forest owner pays the tax only when he cuts and sells wood in the forest. However, a reduction in the tax base could be applied at proven costs of investing in the forest. The difference would be taxed on profit. The current calculated KD shows essentially the average profit in forest management. According to normal economic logic, in the normal tax system, the authority from the calculated KD should only charge a profit tax with a certain percentage. To put it simply, if we say that the tax on profit is 20%, then from, for example, EUR 100 calculated by the KD, the owner pays only EUR 20, but not that this EUR 100 is charged to him in his personal income. Let us not forget that this is what the former Austro-Hungarians and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia used to do. Only the countries of Slovenia and the socialist Yugoslavia are special in this area. As an incentive instrument, the Government could reduce or increase the rate of taxes, not calculate this battalion of officials some KD already calculated in other state documents. Why don't we take a look at how this is arranged in the neighborhood? We do not need to follow their model, we just need to adapt it to the Slovenian situation. But we probably can't do that. In addition, we are the only country in Europe that does not yet have a property tax. Sooner or later, we'll have to bring him in. The owners of houses and apartments are currently paying compensation for the use of building land, which is not a classic tax. This is also still the remnant of socialism. The owners of land and agricultural land are now taxed only with KD, which is also not a classic tax. After the introduction of the property tax, the owners of forests and agricultural land may be taxed in double terms: with KD and property tax. The government of Alenka Bratušek has already proposed this, and future new governments are likely to continue this idea. The tax on forest ownership will be measured from the general market value of forest land calculated by Gurs and any forest owner can also see this general value on the websites of that institution. These calculated values are a typical example of our national administration's inappropriate approach to regulating the tax area. The people who did these calculations simply did not know what they were counting and what they were calculating. They were calculating a tax base that doesn't exist. We cannot talk about the general market value of forest land, because in Slovenia there is simply no market with bare forest land. The Holocaust is also forbidden, and the forest is always considered only as a forest compound and forest land. When we talk about the price of forest in Slovenia, this represents land and wood, which also grows on this land. In Austria this is slightly different, there are no goloseks prohibited, even when assessing the value of forests, the value of the forest and the value of the empty land are especially distinguished, as is said to be a bare forest land. Taxes are also appropriate. This is just a comparison of how we did it and how we deal with the forest, because the simplest and only revenue from the forest is wood. In other agriculture, it is a little more complicated, we have different cultures and also a way of accounting. However, this cadastral income is not tax, the cadastral income is not charged. Catastrophe income is only the basis to be attributed to everyone who owns agricultural land, is attributed to income, wages and subsidies are also attributed in addition to the cadastral income. And then it's just a comprehensible calculation or that's just a problem. I took one example of a farmer, and I was assisted by a social work centre that helped me calculate the income in the case of the current or impact of this income and KD in the case of the current level of KD and at the end of 2020 when the full KD will be delivered. I got a calculation from one family and then we did a calculation of the current KD and a calculation for 2020, what impact KD has on social benefits. One three-member family, a father and two children, one in kindergarten and another full-time student, who now has 6 000 100 euros in cadastral income, and now pays 2 000 751 euros, or has an income of 2 000 751 euros, will have an income of 5 000 362 in 2020. Catastrophe income will increase from €6,000 100 to €14 thousand 372. This cadastral income will increase from EUR 2 000 751 to EUR 5 000 362. This means that if this family did not have a farm, the farm alone will increase its income by EUR 4 000 243. But that's not all! There is also this impact on the calculation of kindergartens, which, after the current income, account for 30% of parents' contributions, the new rate will be 43%. A 12-year-old student has a scholarship of 130 euros a month, after a new one, 2020, because his cadastral income is so high that his scholarship no longer belongs to him. The child allowance for a child who is underage is €58 per month, and after a new one it will no longer belong to him. If we calculate and sum up, then this family will pay 2 000 611 more income, the father, the children's allowance will be less than 696 euros, the scholarship will not receive a student of EUR 560 and the kindergarten will have to pay more than 624 euros. It totals EUR 5,000 491: whether there will be fewer social benefits and more income – together. Social benefits alone amount to EUR 2 000 880. It is not only KD here that is or is not only KD that is registered, there are subsidies; and that is 100%. EUR 6 000 100 is not only KD from this farm, but a total of subsidies, which are also 100 per cent now included in personal income. Now calculate: €5 thousand 491 is the minimum annual pension, a little less than the minimum wage. He goes to work now and gets a minimum wage. This will be the impact of this increased cadastral income on each farm. They are not a problem for those farms or farmers that are insured on a compulsory health and pension basis as farmers where they are considered to be in the calculation of these social benefits of three quarters of the minimum wage. The problem is small farms which do not have enough farming to survive, that they have to go to work and then these KDs and subsidies are added, and the calculation of the income is taken into account in the calculation of all social benefits. How should young takeovers take over farms? Do you think we have such stupid citizens that they can't calculate what it does to their social status? This government will shut up. Besides KD, there are subsidies. And all of this is added to the salary, the income is calculated, all of this affects all of the social benefits. I heard someone say it's a genocide of the countryside, of the farmers. Let the peasant child stay at home because he will not receive a scholarship, there will be no children’s allowance because they themselves produce food, keep him stupid, and stay in the country. These incomes, which will be – let them pay in the state budget for those who have nothing and do nothing. We can get them every day whenever they rise up on the road to protest any reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u81	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! First of all, let me start by saying that in the Desus Group we will support the proposal of the Cadastrian Income Act. It was very clear and it was necessary that complex matters should be tackled, not least as one of the complex issues, sooner or later, and resolved from the foundations. The methodology for the determination of cadastral income is a key change that required a comprehensive overhaul. Since the transitional period of the so-called moratorium on the identification of cadastral income is due to expire this year, at the end of this year, the matter is even more pressing and action needed – swift but thoughtful. From the very beginning, so-called financial calculations or similar to those of the previous point, income were the most up-to-date, and they have been under-estimated in the past. We are therefore not surprised by the strong involvement or better expressed concern of farmers in our parliamentary group as key stakeholders in this law. In the meantime, the work was carried out by a specific working group, broad and in the Desus Group we have constantly called and noted respect for the conclusions and recommendations of this working group, which constitute a key basis for determining new methodologies for the identification of cadastral income. We thought that they would coordinate with the competent ministry, agricultural and financial, and, in the first place, to listen and take care of the small farmer. We are very careful about regulating their situation because we appreciate and respect hard work, farmers and food producers. We are convinced that small development, if you want local production, can and must make a strong contribution to self-sustainment and efficient development of agriculture as well as the wider economy as a whole. That is why we are pleased that, after many months of hard and solid coordination, a proposal has finally been put in place to help these key stakeholders, small farmers. Key concerns, both professional and general public, have been raised regarding the question of the inclusion of production activities in the flat-rate method of determining cadastral income. As a result, the administrative burden on producers to manage the bookkeeping for these purposes is also a consequence. Only within the framework of the rules governing income can a solution be achieved, that is a fact. However, there are so-called exceptions to those operators who produce very small quantities. In the Desus Group, we do our best to put the interests of a small person at the forefront, not of administration and of collecting money in the same way as in the introduction of tax registers. As was the case with the Excise Act, where the Desus Group stood up for all small producers, and in this proposal for a law, the solution went to the benefit of wine producers. In general, we estimate that exceptions are permissible where the social or economic situation of a small person is at great risk. We therefore allow for the possibility of matters being regulated in an appropriate manner in the field rules. On conclusion. We are still leaving room in some way for any open issues to be further regulated during the legislative process, in particular if they go further in favour of the quality regulation of agriculture in Slovenia, resulting in rural development, polycentric development and regional development as a whole. For all of this, the Members and Members of the Desus Group will also support the solutions that have been supported in the Cadastrian Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u83	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u84	A nice welcome to all, once again, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a cadastral income law renews this area of taxation, and we can say that it was an extremely long, demanding procedure, which is likely to have approached that point by the public concerned in response, where we could say that we could deal with a law that has been intensively coordinated throughout this period and does not leave this moment too open room for different interpretations of the introduction of this law. In doing so, we believe that it is necessary to take into account, in particular, the reality of the revenue calculations that are the basis for the tax accounts and, of course, also, once again, we stress the need for dialogue among all stakeholders in the drafting of the bill. The very starting point for the proposal for a Cadastrian Income Law has been prepared by a working group that has set the framework for further preparation with a view to drafting a law that will be able to be a simple and stable system that will be based primarily on statistical data and will be intended for those undertakings that do not exceed a certain threshold of income. Of course, those who go beyond this threshold will continue to be taxed at income levels. In order to achieve the principle of tax fairness, it is of paramount importance to have high-quality input data. Thus, their resources and methodology are, of course, also crucial to whether this objective will actually be achieved. In view of the fact that a large part of the proposals made by the interested public to the owners of agricultural and forestry land could be taken into account, it could only be pointed out that the open question, as it all appears, is still whether the maintenance or non-preservation of the taxation of wine under the flat-rate is still important, which was also a key observation in the process of adopting the new law so far, that the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which initially recognised 60% of the costs in the forest and 60% of the costs in bees, today, also on the basis of the coordination and debates that have been carried out, has been harmonised, following 80% of the costs in forestry and 80% of beekeeping costs. This has been one of the key points in the harmonisation of this law so far. It is very important that the law also has a three-year transitional period, of course also through the progressive enforcement mechanism, but all together, we hope that it will create a stable tax environment, which is crucial both for the functioning and functioning of the economy and also for agriculture and beekeeping. Thus, the cadastral income system is the basis for a functioning, simple flat-rate taxation of farmers without a permanent determination of actual income. It is important, however, that the calculations reflect as much as possible a realistic assessment of the return that could be achieved by a good master on a given land. That is why dialogue is needed here as a key assessment of the potential yield of agricultural and forestry land. Above all, I think we need to make sure that farmers do not pay for something that they do not achieve through their activities on agricultural or forest land. However, if the law currently in force remains in force, this will certainly happen when the tax is applied. Thus, there is also an additional reason for the adoption of a new law, namely that the current one, which has a very high tax on agriculture and forestry in its content, would cease to exist, which would be unsustainable for the survival and functioning of the agricultural and forestry sectors. For this reason, of course, we support the law as well as the conclusion that it should also be dealt with in the following cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u85	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! In recent months, the proposal for a new Cadastrian Income Law has certainly raised a lot of dust. The proposal, as it was given to the public, was also unacceptable in the view of the United Left. During the public hearing, many proposals were made by farmers' organisations and we are pleased that many of them have been taken into account by the ministry. The transitional period increased from two to three years and percentages were also reduced, in which the cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment on the bee stump were taken into account at that time. In a more appropriate manner, the income of intensive fruit growers has been determined and the factors of the impact of the ratings have been further corrected in a way that reduces the impact of the poor and increases the impact of good ratings. The flat-rate assessment also included the processing of olives and olive oil and the processing of grapes to a certain extent of vineyards. The additional cadastral scope of specific cultures has been reduced and the recognised costs for forests and beekeeping increased from 60 % to 80 %. Although the Ministry has largely taken into account the proposals put forward during the public debate, a number of issues remain open regarding the determination of cadastral income and the flat-rate assessment on bee stump. One of the most pressing issues, in our view, is in particular the determination of the reduction in cadastral income according to the economic power of the farm on smaller farms. The calculations of cadastral income in the form given to the public debate also showed a 100-fold increase in cadastral income for certain farms. Poorer farmers are also particularly sensitive to lower increases in cadastral income, and it is unacceptable, in our view, that the Cadastrian Income Law is being adopted today and that consideration of possible solutions is being put into some indefinite future. To correct the burden on farms under the income system. In addition, it is unacceptable that, in the indefinite future, it is also necessary to determine the possibility of including smaller processing volumes of own agricultural products and forestry crops which do not yet demonstrate the characteristics of self-sustaining processing activities in the flat-rate way of determining the tax base. So we are looking forward to a social and unjust increase in taxes. Adjustments in the area of income are out of the question, so if this law is adopted today, it will mainly affect the socially weakest rural economy. The government and the coalition often manifests a lack of systems and a lack of integrity in which it is very transparent to make excuses for non-admission of the law just because it has been proposed by the opposition party. In fact, the proposed amendment to the law amending cadastral income is an incomplete regulation of fair taxation in agriculture, which will affect poor farmers much more than wealthy farmers, but the government and the coalition see no problem. You will pay taxes on a flat-rate basis for everyone, and in the future you may consider whether there is a farm that may not be able to live. Such a change in such sensitive legislation is poor in our view and is not in the direction of ensuring a stable productive economic situation for agriculture, as defined in the Resolution on Strategic Directions for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food by 2020. That's why we won't support this law in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u87	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u88	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the determination of the cadastral income of ZUKD-2 is submitted for consideration at an inappropriate time. Slovenian agriculture is on its knees. The dairy sector is plummeting from month to month and there is no hope of an almost improvement in the situation. They include droughts, floods, or colds, which drain farmers financially and motivationally. The country is a poor mother and more stepmother, with the recent introduction of tax registers, with non-life renewals of the Supplementary Activities Regulation, with which only financial and bureaucratic obligations are imposed on the holder of complementary activities. For decades, the farmland will not recover from its acorn and its resulting enormous replication of its tentacles. On top of everything, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also establishes a state-owned enterprise in Slovenia, which will be particularly damaging to smaller farms, which could with forestry repair their income at least a little and ensure a long-term existence. Profits from wood, even the last Slovenian wealth, will go into the hands of great players, those who determine who the contractors will be and where the equipment for a state-owned company will be purchased at an amount of EUR 20 million. Our farmers are increasingly looking at Austria. But the Ministry of Finance doesn't seem to notice all this. The proposal for a law on the determination of cadastral income, two, from the beginning of its writing, has been a major source of excitement for farmers and beekeepers. Christian Democrats claim that the content of this law is problematic and also the process of adoption. If we touch upon the procedure, let us note that the Secretary of State at the emergency meeting on cadastral income in Slovenia, which took place on 3 May 2016 at the request of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, experienced the resistance of virtually all NGOs in the field of agriculture. It argued that the bill was in line with all stakeholders, while the representatives of these organisations knew nothing about it; on the contrary, they claimed that the Government simply ignored all the comments. Only after this meeting and the disclosure that the emperor is naked has the Ministry of Finance started with urgent, serious coordination. Then we Christian Democrats and others received signals that some things are finally being regulated in the right direction, such as the recognition of the costs of 80% of the market income for bees. On the other hand, I must point out that the Ministry has fully examined the Forest Owners' Association regarding the establishment of a fair growth coefficient that would adequately reflect cadastral forest income on the highest levels. The catastrophe income covered by taxation will on average be €383, which means around €95 more than it is today, in line with the proposal for a debt law in 2020. In 2020, total cadastral income will be covered by income tax, higher than the current one, by slightly less than €35 million, which means more than once the country's revenue. It is clear, therefore, that the country wishes to recharge the budget on farmers and does not take into account the old saying that it does not take up the army where it does not exist. The country only takes farmers and, on the other hand, expects stable production of safe food, high self-sustainment and satisfaction. Christian Democrats warn that this is an account without a tavern. Unfortunately, Slovenian farmers also do not have a strong enough advocate in the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who should strongly resist such a proposal in these circumstances. However, he did not do so, although he publicly criticizes him, in reality we understand his criticism as a silent support. The law, for example, brings some bright points, such as the basis for the coefficient for calculating the additional cadastral income of special intensive cultures, such as the production of strawberries, asparagus, intensive gardening, the cultivation of snails and so on. Christian Democrats will vote decisively against the bill, which will gradually burden the Slovenian farmer by 2020. We call on the two competent ministries to prove first, through concrete calculations, that the income from agricultural production has increased and by what extent it has increased and then to propose appropriate taxation of income. However, if they find out otherwise, they should not raise the burden of the Slovenian farmer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u89	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u90	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian agriculture certainly needs a stable, transparent, fair and administrative environment to be manageable both business and tax. I think that this is a very important starting point for us to talk about the quality of food security, about increasing self-sustainment and that health food will also be available in situations where prices rise strongly due to climate change on the global market. That's where I'd start, and then I can go on. We all agreed in the debate that the current, applicable method for determining cadastral income is not right. That's what farmers say. Therefore, it is high time that we found the right fair system solution, which will also be sustainable for farmers. That's very important. We have before us a proposal for a law on the identification of cadastral income, which foresees a new method that brings a lot of novelty, also certainly some good news, because it in some ways simplifies the whole process of determining cadastral income and elephants in an economic account and is linked to data in a land cadastra, but is not linked to the register of agricultural holdings. Is that good or not? I believe that this process of law-making can also be verified. I also expect that we will have concrete analyses on the working body by the Ministry as well as by housing institutions. And, of course, farmers. I welcome the fact that, in preparing this method, it has taken an interdisciplinary approach, which means that, however it has been said that this can only be a product of the Ministry of Finance, I would not agree, because when I reviewed the composition of the working group, it is clear that the Ministry of Agriculture and also certain housing institutions were included in this working group. Therefore, I believe that at present, at what stage this methodology is that a great deal of effort has been made both by all these stakeholders, so that appropriate solutions can be found by the end of the process. I would like to highlight some important, perhaps, risks that are reflected in this proposed model. As I said, this method is found in an economic account at state level; this is said to be determined at country level. At the moment, it looked different. It seemed that it was determined at the level of the regions and that there could be substantial changes here. It can happen, and it shows that in certain regions the cadastral income can be substantially increased, and unfortunately also for the region that is the grain of Slovenia from which I come. Therefore, we propose that the cap that will be a fuse will certainly be put in place and will prevent an enormous lifting, which I believe is of no interest to anyone to destroy agriculture in a particular area. I believe that on both the professional side and then the political will of somewhere in synergy will achieve an appropriate solution. However, in order to certainly raise the cadastral income, which is then the basis for paying taxes from basic agricultural and forestry activities and contributions, and then, as has already been said, social transfers from this to farmers are also declining. I'm sure that's what's gonna happen. In certain regions, in certain sectors less, in certain more. Why do I feel that way? Because of these projections we have received, it is clear that this gradual implementation brings with it up to 2020 an increase by factor 2 or by nominally 35 million euros. I'm sure you'll know that somewhere. That's a fact. I will therefore say that even here, as far as the starting point is concerned, in order to avoid such an enormous or larger rise, we could also look here for a solution, namely a reduction of the risk of an increase in the cadastral income determined on the basis of an economic account. Why am I exposing this? Because these data are aggregated from the previous period and if there is a markedly high price fluctuation, let me say for example in cereals, when prices fall from 240 euros per tonne to 120 or even lower, it is a very big problem from the financial aspect of ensuring liquid liquidity and so on. Since financial burdens will then arise during the period when these downturns or downsizings occur, then, of course, farmers may experience liquidity problems. How could we regulate this in some way? In such a way that it should also be examined that, in the event that these risks of high price fluctuations are detected, we have one system to safeguard that this is corrected. In this way, these risks could also be reduced in order to be bearable. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will not oppose the proposal for a law for further consideration. On the basis of everything that I am exposed to today, we will then make a final decision, or decision, when the law is confirmed and adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u91	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance mag spoke. Mateja Vraničar Erman, followed by Dr. László Göncz and Mr. Ivan Škodnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to respond to some of the arguments in the recitals or statements made by the positions of the groups of Members. First of all, I would like to start by reminding myself exactly what my statements were at the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I have never argued that we are fully in line with the interested public, but I have argued that the bill is prepared on the basis of the results of the work of the working group, in which representatives of the interested and professional public and the ministries of the Ministry of Finance also participated, in addition to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Environment and Space. That the discussions or coordination with the public concerned on the proposal for the text of the law intensified after this extraordinary meeting is only a case because this meeting was convened in the middle of the coordination process, and we certainly know what our obligation is when we are preparing such an important law as the Cadastrian Income Law, and that essentially intensive work with the public concerned is a key element so that we can essentially send the bill forward. This is precisely why, as I mentioned in the introduction, coordination with the public concerned continues at a time when we expect the National Assembly to launch a second reading of the draft law, not only in order to possibly further harmonise the specific solutions of the Cadastrian Income Law, but also to address the solutions to be included in the Income Act at that time. Among them, I should mention once again that we have agreed with the public concerned to introduce in the Income Act a so-called cap which will prevent the individual farm household from being burdened in a given year or included in the tax base a cadastral income which would be more than twice as high as the cadastral income of the previous year. As we speak of the time when we are introducing the amendment of the law, we must point out in particular that, taking into account the current situation and the natural conditions in the past and this year, we have agreed on a longer transitional period and a particularly favourable transitional period for 2017. Following the solutions currently included in the proposal for a law, it would be in accordance with the current regulation — that is, if we extended this solution, which would expire 30. 6. For one more year, they would be included in taxation or in cadastral income, which is included in the tax base of income, 13% of the total KD. According to the solutions foreseen for 2017, in the coming year the share of the taxed cadastral income in the entire estimated market income will be only 11.2 %. Therefore, the overall burden is decreasing, although the overall volume of private sector market income is increasing. If in the year, for example, 2010 the official statistics indicated an estimate of the private sector's market income of 206 million euros, in 2013 it was already 240 million and preliminary figures for 2014 indicated that this income would be EUR 259 million. As regards the impact or calculation that was presented when the cadastral income of a farm household was to increase from EUR 6 000 to EUR 14 000, I must admit that this calculation is a bit of a miracle, or that this should be a large farm household in relation to the amounts that are foreseen for each hectare, or that subsidies received by individual households are also included in this calculation. In doing so, I should point out that subsidies are either not taxed or subsidised by this proposal for a cadastral income law in any way, and around 50 % of subsidies relating to investment eco-subsidies and subsidies for production in areas with limited production opportunities, the so-called OMD areas, are excluded from taxation and only the remaining 50 % of subsidies, income subsidies, are actually included in the tax base, which is in fact one more story than the determination of cadastral income, in relation to which today's debate is taking place. Also with regard to the warning that the calculation of cadastral income should take into account the marked price decreases or any other circumstances, these data should be taken into account. However, since one of the main features of the current system, which we would like to replace, is that it is also extremely volatile, or jumping the cadastral income on a single surface once up, secondly strongly downwards and thus, the unpredictability of the obligations faced by owners or taxpayers, then it should be said that the proposal for a new law proposes a five-year average of the data that will make the height of the cadastral income more predictable and less volatile view of the actual situation. Finally, when we are talking about the burden or the amount of taxes that farmers must face, we must also take into account that the agricultural activity is the only economic activity that has a distinct specific character in the Income Act, namely that the cadastral income which does not reach EUR 200 per farm household or per employee is not included or included in the tax base. This is not the case with any other economic activity carried out by individuals or natural persons. And if we consider 2017 again as the first year of the transitional regime, 87% of farm households will be exempt from tax on cadastral income because their cadastral income will be lower than EUR 200. After the transition period, i.e. in 2020, current projections suggest that such households will be 74%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u93	The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! To even take the floor in the debate on the proposal for this law, the reason is that some interested groups – and I am now primarily referring to the area from which I come – point to possible difficulties if the criteria we read in the current provisions or proposals of the provisions envisaged are met. I therefore thank the Secretary of State for stressing that they are still in the process of negotiating that there is still a lot more open and my first appeal is going in this direction to try to get as close as possible to what Mrs Vranič said in the introduction. In fact, she said that an important desire or an important aspect of the adoption of the amendment or the adoption of the new law was simply a simplification of the procedure. It's definitely to say hello. It is also to welcome the attempt to achieve such a flat-rate assessment, which will be as close as possible to the actual state of production or actual situation in an area, and these are undoubtedly true things. However, in view of these dilemmas, which are also mentioned in the positions, specifically by Mr Lach, there is also one simulation, but only the question arises whether the criteria are actually at this stage, i.e. in the first reading, so ready that we can be satisfied with this. I am a layman in this area, and I do not want to make some in-depth assessments in this regard, but because there are a lot of comments, I think there is probably a lot to consider. In particular, to consider whether, with other charges or with the general financial situation of the families or owners of certain land, the proposal of this Act is harmonised to an acceptable extent. In fact, if we come to such knowledge as was indicated here in the above-mentioned simulation, then it can be courageous and especially courageous for that layer of the population that is already so poor. Finally, I must also point out that agriculture and livestock are unfortunately in very poor condition today. I am aware that Slovenia is not explicitly agrarian or agrarian, and probably agricultural and some other policies will never be so accurately presented and also defined as perhaps in those countries that are highly agrarian countries, but I think it is very important that, in particular, due to self-sustainment or partial self-sustainment, we are prepared to provide such a agricultural policy, which will undoubtedly be to some extent part of these tasks. If the new cadastral income breaks down this system – or that is a harsh word – so if the system deteriorates, then we have probably done very little, so once again I stress that these links between various taxes, the incomes of the population may need to be more aligned and then there will be no such comments at this stage of the adoption of this law. I still have some cases here from the Austrian and Hungarian income laws, where they have taken good steps in this area, according to my assessment. I hope that the ministry here has thoroughly reviewed these things and that in the coming weeks, because we probably don't have much time available, it will still try to reach the green branch in some areas. I also expect before the final decision, and I conclude with this, perhaps even some actual simulations. Although one has now been moved here, it may also be very subjective, so it would be right to try some simulations more clearly. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u95	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Tomaž Lisec and Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dearly greeted representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow Members! When I listen to this debate today, which has actually only just begun, on cadastral income, I have an opinion. Perhaps I would have said at the outset that I, too, had some concerns about the new law that the Government was presenting when we were discussing a recent proposal from opposition parties, especially from the SDS party, when they somehow wanted this law, which is of course still in preparation, to be moved to the following year. However, after some calculations and data, I have come to realize that it is not so bad for the rurals, for a small farmer, if you have listened to the Secretary of State before me, who has somehow demonstrated how many small farmers will be exempted in the coming period and how much more so after 2020, when this law will come to life in full. But that those who listen to us, perhaps farmers and of course those who are most interested in this marriage, who are not here today, would like to go a little bit back to history and do a little review of 5, 6 years ago, what was actually going on in this area. In 2010, Pahor's government decided to thoroughly re-establish the determination of cadastral income. The Law was adopted by the National Assembly in 2011 and is to be applied separately in June 2012 and June 2013. The question, of course, is why this fundamental reform has taken place in the first place. Finally, or lastly, the cadastral income came to light in 1988, I will repeat: in 1988, that is, in the previous social system. Later, he was just admiring himself. During this period, only the valorisation was carried out, which mainly sought to follow changes in the average level of income for individual cadastral cultures. It is probably not too much to point out that, due to the change in the socio-economic system, the tax system had to be changed. The question was why it was so late. In addition, the previous system envisaged multi-stage coordination between municipalities and at state level and that it was no longer possible, since in 1994 we thoroughly reformed the system of local self-government and the former municipal community, which also exercised republican powers. To recast, in accordance with the Constitution and the European Charter on Local Self-Government, not to mention the uncoordinated state of cadastral structures in the Earth's disaster. The latter meant that for 22 years over the thumb, we assessed the base of the cadastral income and that valorisation was carried out more on the basis of political rather than professional assessments. Some tax experts have therefore estimated that the cadastral income covered only 30 to 40 % of the average market income for agricultural activities. Regrettably, however, the Pahor's government has also made the renovations awkward as it has estimated that the costs of introducing, implementing the new system at the beginning of about 200 000 euros, and later about 150 000 euros per year. It later appeared that it would be necessary to carry out all the tasks so that the system of new ways of determining cadastral income could be revived, that some €3.7 million should be provided by 2015. In order to be complete, the necessary resources were not provided in 2011 to limit budgetary spending for the implementation of the new model. Therefore, Janša’s government in 2012 did not have any other choice but to postpone the implementation of the catastronomical income determination under the new model and to provide the necessary funds. Although Alenka Bratušek had a new calculation of the cadastral income in 2013, it turned out to be an elephant on insufficiently verified calculations and on some inappropriate or even incorrect data. On the basis of these indications, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and the Environment and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted decisions imposing a solution that would only apply new cadastral income calculations in the year following the year of the production of new cadastral income scales, in 2014, and in 2013 all land for which the new cadastral income is higher than the old one by more than 10 % would be subject to the old cadastral income. These conclusions were later implemented by a new amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law in 2013. In 2014, the amendment to the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act was re-adopted, extending the transitional period for the determination of cadastral income for 2014, 2015, 2016. Therefore, it is not in fact surprising that today's debate is counter-proposal of the law. Today, we are not discussing a completely new topic, for which only the government of Mir Cerar would be responsible, but we are considering a bill that has a very long beard. It took six years, and in the meantime three governments had to be replaced in order to get a model of catastrian income identification, which will, on the basis of up-to-date data and in a simple and understandable way determine the real cadastral income. This will also ensure a comparable and fair treatment for all taxpayers. As mentioned, the old cadastral income was determined by a principle that is spoken of over the thumb several times. However, that model does not bring enormous taxes, as it wishes to show itself, is also shown by calculations based on a model introduced by the Pahor government and not rejected by Janša's government, and the government of Alenka Bratušek has decided only to simplify it. According to the new model, the Ministry of Finance estimates that in 2020 the cadastral income will be slightly less than the current EUR 35 million, which means more than once higher than today. Following the latest novel with the previous frozen state between 2014 and 2016, it amounted to around €41 million, and it is necessary to be aware of all the shortcomings mentioned above. It should also be noted that the previous governments have not considered the gradual implementation of the new model after it was not implemented in 2013, and that the Mira Cerar government has shown a great deal of understanding for this industry in the enforcement of the tax burdens which should have been in force since 2013. The new model for the determination of cadastral income will not be fully implemented until 2020, i.e. seven years from the original plans. In addition, a preliminary period is planned to take into account only 40 calculated cadastral income in 2017, which means that during the first year the cadastral income will even be slightly lower than in 2016. In 2018, according to 2017, it will increase by around €11 million; in 2019 it will increase by around €15 million in 2018 and in 2020 by around €19 million in 2019. I must say that this law is better in my opinion, it is simpler, the calculation is simpler, fairer for a farmer, so I will support this law and actually see that this law will bring something new, I think, good, for a Slovenian farmer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u97	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Benedict Kopmajer and Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u98	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with the teams, nice greeting! I'll continue where the predecessor ends. What has been wrong in the last five years, but these five years, it has one stop: Mr Dejan jedan. Except for one year, he was there all the time, so write him a letter about why everything was wrong; we, who will be in this Parliament's next term, will write a letter about what he did to destroy the Slovenian farmer by 2020. I myself wondered whether the basic problem of this law was that it was being prepared by the Ministry of Finance and not by the Ministry of Agriculture, but, in fact, Mr Škodnik himself said that this weight was very difficult. The Ministry of Finance, with all due respect, is more of an official model, and Minister Židan, who is actually destroying the Slovenian farmer, and under this law of the Slovenian farmer after 2020 will no longer be, which the government itself will write down. If we look at the financial implications, I quote the text of the law or the introduction: "In 2020, the total cadastral income will be more than once higher." But 2017 and 2018 hope for this mandate, so this transitional period, which reminds me once again, kill me gently, but the farmer will be dead after these governments are long gone and you will probably hope to be in the opposition – those few individuals – who will say that officials at the Ministry have given, as has been said today, the current projections for 2020, which have been missed. When we say in the SDS Group that this identification of cadastral income is fiction, this coalition, which has current projections for 2020, says that we do not know what we are saying. And the government itself writes, quote, "about a third of farm households in taxation will increase their cadastral income at the end of the transitional period by 50 % or on average over 60 euros per year, about half between 50 and 300 % or on average up to about 140 euros per year, about 10 percent will increase their cadastral income by more than 3 times or on average by just over 200 euros per year..." Then, of course, the last sentence, "about 10% will fall from 160 to 120 euros a year." In short, this law is written only to be written in all Slovenian media tomorrow, how the cadastral income will be reduced in 2017 because it will be a transitional period. 2018 will be the same as it is now, and then these governments will no longer be, and then narrow down the concern for joy, and let the next government deal with Slovenian farmers; let them be beekeepers, vine growers, olive farmers, forest owners and everyone else. That's how you do it. The same will come to this Parliament in a few months' time on real estate taxes. Because you are already saying that after 2019 the property tax will come. Of course, you will press the button for what will result – the next government will change, it will do. Perhaps even intimately, you hope that the next government of Janšev will then have a reason for anger before the government or before the National Assembly. Yes, the government is to blame, and Parliament will not know that this law has been passed by 60 Members, of whom it is likely to sit in this national assembly in the next 10-15 term. Of course you don't care. The Minister of the Jews is quiet. He probably likes that the Ministry of Finance is what's on the ground today. He also spoke at the tax office about how great it was, but three months ago he said it would be nice if we changed something. And after we broke our words to the opposition, he said only with Minister Marble, because for some, it would be really nice if those tax receipts were a little different. The only condition to at least partially agree with this law is that in an article referring to transitional provisions, where it says, "in 2017, cadastral income and flat-rate valuation are attributed to 40 and in 2018 to 55%", makes a point and writes the phrase "and this also applies until further." Because if the current projections for 2020 are something that is saved, we all know the situation on the ground when we have board meetings not only because of natural disasters, but because of the problem here, there, the winemakers, beekeepers and everyone else. No, this government, that for the second year, the cadastral income will be lower — how good we are! But after 2020, more than once more KD and property tax! And if the European perspective after 2020 is not as good to Slovenian agriculture as it was to some of the present – will we still have a Slovenian farmer? No, but it's important to you to survive 2017. I'm very surprised today, given how much you've coordinated, the distinguished Secretary of State, or how many people have been involved. I always say, great, I support. Unlike being at one meeting an hour earlier, when they said that they had escaped from the SMC, that you were at least talking and cooperating with different actors in the field of finance and agriculture; that is, those affected by this law. But the fact is, as you yourself write down, that you still have open fronts with olive trees, winemakers, beekeepers, forest owners who have already fought with certain articles, which say here that it is 80 or 90% of the market value – but why not wait a while longer with this law? I usually expect the government to align itself with all those stakeholders that this law touches and then we come here. And then you'll be appalled if there's a meeting of the Finance Committee of 10 different associations, the union of this, the union of the other, the cooperative of one and up, and they'll say, we still don't think the law is good. And you're still gonna say we're still gonna talk? Sooner or later, we'll have to press the key, respectable and respected. And of course, the coalition Members will be happy to press "for" because in 2017 you will boast about how less KD will be, in 2018 it will be about the same as now – what we also proposed a month ago, that for at least one year it will remain the same, and you were appalled at what kind of populism we are going to go. No! No! After Nova Slovenija and SDS shout out how to solve things, you do the hook in 2017 – we are beautiful – and then it will be no more. In short, once again, in the SDS Group, we only support the text of the article if, in the third indent of Article 16, you make a dot for the word "in 2018 in the value of 55%". And we all know what the situation in Slovenian agriculture is, and with this law after 2018, when these governments are gone, you will actually kill both agriculture and probably any farmer. If this is the government's agricultural policy, then vote for it. We'll fight in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u99	Mr Benedict Kopmajer has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u100	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I need to take a look at and raise some concerns about the new proposal for a law on the identification of cadastral income, which will face mainly the hill farmers in Koroška – and I believe that the second in Slovenia – a great deal. On the basis of the experience they have with the country so far, forgive me, they do not trust the new law because their proposals and concerns have not been sufficiently taken into account, even though they have been sent on time. They feel that the country is overly macho. But the problem is not just cadastral income. They are aware that the tax must be paid. And if it were just a tax, it wouldn't be a problem, even though at that time the prices of milk, meat, wood assortments have been drastically reduced, so that each euro has become a problem. The main problem is that cadastral income is still the basis for decision-making under 22 laws or by-laws. That's their biggest problem. If only a tax were to be paid to KD, they would accept it and rule out the matter, then farmers would react to it in a very different way. However, since the KD is attributed or is the basis for income first and above the 22 regulations, this is a very large financial problem mainly for hill farmers, because they do not actually bear the additional financial burden, since on the other hand, the revenue side has lost as much as 50% of the compensatory measures so far. Once again, I'm talking about hill farmers. He first described and calculated the effects of this cadastral income. If I say only in the grave that it affects the entire life path of a farmer from birth to death. All of this is linked to this cadastral income of the owner. However, if we calculate only for comparison, the cadastral income for the meadows of the hill, because there are no comparative fields in the hills with the flat work, and if we compare meadows that give something, I will say, baskets or loaders of grass or hay per hectare, if you want, or the best field or field somewhere in the plain part of Slovenia, with which you can get a few tons of grain per hectare, the difference in the cadastral income is only 50 euros per hectare. Of course, this is not logical, but even less normal. We must be aware that people are already living and working in rural areas because of tradition, because of heritage and not because of economic aspects. So let's leave them with the essentials for life. I hope that the government will also take these modest concerns into account in the law-making process.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u101	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. State secretary, colleagues and all our guests who are on the balcony! Today we are talking about cadastral income, a proposal for a law prepared by our government. The fact is that this is a law that is a burden for our farmer, a Slovenian farmer. We are often indignant when the government does not prepare any laws, but, of course, when the law is drawn up, the burden is on our citizens and citizens. I am of the opinion that the two chapters are very burdensome for the Republic of Slovenia; these are natural disasters, of course, and parties coming to Parliament for only one term. Who don't work in the long run. This is also an indicator – this proposal for a law. Slovenian agriculture, Slovenian farmer is in increasing difficulty. For the first time, it is accompanied by natural traps, and those who adopt legislation in the Republic of Slovenia impose increasing burdens on it and the agricultural market in Slovenia and also in Europe and the world is becoming increasingly difficult. The fact is that when we talk about the Slovenian countryside, when we talk about the Slovenian farmer, I have told several times in this National Assembly that we are being denied economic logic and agricultural intelligence. That is also what our neighbors acknowledge. Of course, it's very easy to burden a small man. There are not so many days since we listened to the President of the Government who spoke of a small man in the Republic of Slovenia. Today's bill burdens the Slovenian farmer, burdens the Slovenian farmer's family, sometimes living in three generations. We're not aware of this enough. A little earlier, I listened to my predecessor, perhaps a year older, perhaps with some experiences more than I have myself, and I fully agree with him. I think that politics is important here too, no matter who comes from which party to work for those people who have elected us to this Parliament. That's what he showed this week. When we talk about the cadastral income that weighs – of course, the secretary of state has an extremely difficult task here when it has to represent it in the National Assembly. I understand the Prime Minister of the Government that he cares little about our rurals, but it is very difficult for him to understand the Minister of Agriculture, who has been Minister of Agriculture for 6 years now in the field of agriculture, and we must not forget that he is also Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm surprised to see the revered Jew allowing these things to come to the National Assembly, of course, this burden. When he goes to any farm, I know that he will be able to easily tell himself that the second year will be nothing, but 2018 will be nothing, but this cadastral income will increase once in 2020. Dear Members and Members of the largest coalition party, if this one-off raise is so easy for you and, of course, you can easily press the button for this bill, I also urge you to press once to reduce your salary once, if that is so easy. We must be aware that we all live in the Republic of Slovenia, we must be aware that we have all been elected from our citizens and citizens and that when the burden comes for the wounded farmer on these benches, we should reject. In short, I will reject this law and also advocate that Slovenian rurals, Slovenian farmers, Slovenian families who live on farms should have a better future. Of course, all of us sitting here are responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In view of the fact that the law also brings or introduces a new methodology, it is very important that the law also provides for a transitional period and this transitional period is determined in the way that in 2017 the cadastral income is actually reduced by 10 million, 2017 and 2018 then increased by 11 and only in 2019 will it increase by about 19 million, but I want to say the following. Given that there is a new methodology, it is right that during this transitional period we can actually assess what all of this data brings, the parameters to be entered into this methodology for the calculation of cadastral income. It is right that, at the moment when the law comes to life, of course, there is also a situation where this calculation will reflect itself as appropriate, where it will prove to be inappropriate and, above all, as I have already warned in the position of the Group of Members, there must be no way that the farmer would be obliged to pay something that he did not create; or that these burdens would be based on data, as if he had created extremely large revenues, but in fact these revenues were significantly lower. That is why I think that it will not only be after the conclusion of the debate in the National Assembly – and I also welcome that the law is going to be followed by a regular procedure, that we have a general debate first today and then on the working body, because it will certainly be an opportunity to get to know the views of all the others involved in the drafting of the legislation, and not least all of those or a large part of those through the individual association and the forms of organisation they have to present their views on the law itself. I wish that in this transitional period then these same teams, regardless of who's in power, regardless of who's running a certain resource, which has been exposed today as, I don't know, shortcomings and the like; the profession will then have the opportunity and the opportunity to monitor the situation all the time and then, of course, also to inform those who will have the opportunity and the opportunity to decide on any changes and additions to this law. However, it is certainly very important that we try to monitor the effects of the law in specific areas, regions. According to this methodology, the same category is expected to be somewhat the same as or assessed, whether it is in Pomure, whether it is in Primor, whether it is in Kras, in Dolenjska, in Gorenjska. This is certainly an additional more difficult task, because Slovenia is diverse, there are different climate conditions, there are different geographical conditions; in short, there are a number of factors that are sometimes difficult to introduce into the methodology, so it will be very important to monitor the actual implementation of this law in individual areas, regions and to assess that there would not be another burden, such as one part of Slovenia at the expense of the second part of Slovenia. This always brings discomfort and a bad feeling, and not least, it is not right to do so or to do so. Thus, the complexity of this law is probably even greater than that of others because of all these parameters, and I hope that all of these indicators, which will be known, especially when the first calculations are made, will be a really good basis or even better basis for discussion and monitoring as we have today. Although I would point out what has surprised me in the last period and it is somehow illogical that there should be no situation which has also been detected in this law at one point, so that even for two thousand times for each farmer, the burden would increase. I was recently also surprised by the information, but it is not directly linked to this law, but for just 300-, 400-fold higher forest road maintenance fee, regardless of the fact that the owner has not increased its surfaces, is something that surprises you. Why can and how it is possible that such calculations can occur in the first place, and that is why I am even more stressing that really, very seriously and at the professional level, all things will have to be accepted and those problems that in practice will have to be solved. However, this law is certainly necessary, as noted by the profession, many who deal with agriculture, forestry, and beekeeping. The fact is that if this law is not adopted, it will remain in force now, which is extremely unfriendly after the current methodology for farmers, and there could indeed be enormous burdens on farms. Thus, the adoption of this law means that we can also withdraw, if I may say so, from the law in force, which, as long as after the transitional period with which the impact of the current law has been mitigated, would result in a truly enormous burden on farmers. It is therefore right to adopt a new law, with a transitional period and a sober calculation, after this law can be fully implemented there after 2020, if everything is as it should be with our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Dr Mitja Horvat has the floor, followed by Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Dear representatives of the ministries, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Although I am sorry that Mr Lisco is no longer among us, because he would like to make a few words of what he has in mind and everything on the average. Far from accepting any allegations that have been made at his expense, and at this point, I must once again, as I have in the past, commend the Ministry of Finance, which has prepared a comprehensive proposal and equipped it with numbers that, unfortunately, you do not want to read as they are written, but it must also be pointed out to the public that they have been very misleadingly presented. Especially when we are talking not only about percentages, but when we are talking about amounts in euros, you will find, of course, that these differences in the new system are not as drastic as they would like to be presented. And far from not being socially sensitive and not being sensitive to the state of the Slovenian farmer that we are supposed to want to destroy; far from it! What we want, of course, is to encourage him; let us encourage him to speak not only emotionally about these subjects but on scientific grounds. What we want, of course, is to encourage a Slovenian farmer, who, even after a new arrangement carefully prepared by the Ministry of Finance, takes into account modern scientific methods, not to speak there to purely modern techniques, to drones, through which he can monitor the situation on his surfaces and where he can practically pointly care of the environment, measures when there are various phenomena, harmful phenomena of disease in the trees, on other crops. The incentive we need and, of course, the balance. As you will find from the figures presented, there is a greater increase only in those agricultural areas or households that have minimal ownership – because it is a minimum number of those that have large areas and where, of course, they are completely different from those that you probably wanted to have a little emotional impact on, that we want to destroy the one that is important not only for agricultural production, but also for the purpose of having an orderly landscape; because we need all those who also go to other services to be able to maintain the family property that they have received from the ancestors and will also hand it over to the researchers. These are in the vast majority, and in the vast majority they are also very burdened by the conditions that you have helped to create in the past. We want a new system, and we want to achieve what is most important, a more even burden with taxes and, of course, in this case also in the agricultural field. Those who create more are easier to contribute more, and of course there is no intention of destroying anyone, especially those that I have said, who also care about the ecological and social function of property, as we have in the constitution. They will continue to be able to continue to carry out this activity under their favorite conditions with small, minimal burdens, with our support, of course. As we say, we are also particularly sensitive to recent developments, from major climate change to the perceptions we have witnessed in recent years. This is also appropriate on the basis that we are aware of the damage caused by the hailstorm, with the cold, with floods suffering on agricultural surfaces. At the same time, on the other hand, it is necessary to know little to balance that in all these years, which we like to call a crisis, it is necessary to know that this crisis has least affected those who are engaged in agricultural activities, that this has been significantly better known in other areas, in financial areas, and, of course, that the greater damage and the worse situation have suffered in other productions. We are certainly not insensitive, and we also hear the Ministry of Agriculture, which reminds us of what is happening because of this, now at the end of the so-called crisis, because of all the events we have in the world, in a globalised world where conditions have deteriorated for some farmers. Of course, we will find ways for those people and, in particular, as has already been said on the Committee on Agriculture, where we will also encourage them with the help, as I said, on scientific grounds justified, not only emotionally debated where we will encourage them and give them urgent assistance in order to shift them to production with higher added value. So far away from the perceptions and away from simply kicking the bucket further along the road as it is said, so that the craftsmen will have to do what we have to do today. We are faced in this government with what you have done in the past, and I will not behave in the same way as you have discussed, and I will not discuss it this way. But before us are great challenges and all the rest of what has happened in the past. That is why, of course, we try to put things on sound foundations and that, according to our constitutional order, we can create similar situations, equal opportunities for all and, of course, far from destroying anyone. Perhaps just for the end of a tiny thought; we know what a bee means to a man, we know that the famous Einstein said that when there is no bee, there will be no man. Therefore, it can also be seen in these cases how and how we are socially responsible and sensitive to the fact that the situation and life of people, the well-being of people also on this basis, with a more even distribution of burdens, and I believe that it is intended and so prepared, and we will be able to support it and also that it will be able to live and bring benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you, too. Even today is an open day for all beekeepers. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare for him. I apologize, Mr Uroš Prikl. The word is yours, Mr Lah and Mr Zajc after Mr Laho. [[…]] Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I'd like to meet my colleague Laho in reverse, as well. Nice greeting again on my part. In this law you have to say, but I don't want to be too critical now because it's not productive either, but in fact it was in the past, I hope to argue and be critical, fighting a little done. A lot of things have accumulated, a lot of problematic issues have accumulated and needed or needed measures; measures in the sense that in some way, if you want, we will clear up the methodology for calculating cadastral income. In any case, let's do this now, at this point, because by the end of this year, the moratorium on the identification of the disaster is running again and now something has to be done. Here, at least as far as I was concerned, there were very intensive discussions at the level of both ministries, both financial and agricultural. There was also a working group with different profiles of experts intended to listen, so to take account of the expertise to listen to the needs of farmers, the smaller, the larger and, of course, the appropriate solutions. I believe that in this part of the Commission this has been taken into account, that it has cooperated with its concrete ideas, proposals and also with the solutions of the daily agricultural population, with various forms of agriculture, forestry and so on. Why it is also for us some who do not come from rural environments, however, even in Maribor we are surrounded by agricultural areas and also personally, if you want, I have a sensitive relationship with the peasant population and I do not care if you accept or press a key that will mean, as I am now from many or from some of the discussions before you hear that the farmer is going to be destroyed. I would certainly not like this to be the case, so I believe that the profession has listened to these needs, listened to the needs in terms of meaning; for the first time, to ensure the greatest possible self-reliance, which the agricultural minister likes to stress – and so is the case. Secondly, not to stop rural development; on the contrary, to develop all the ends of Slovenia not only a city, a large city or a large city, but also a rural area where the Robbery of Slovenske gorica, a northeastern Slovenia and so on. Thirdly, perhaps even the most essential condition is to emphasize that one listens to a farmer, a man, an individual who deals with bread, serves with food production and processing, and must not be inferior to anyone else. Of course, I also believe the numbers that have been presented to us, I believe the positive solutions that this brings, I will say a little political, long-awaited law. On conclusion, I would only say this, there is no voting today, and today we will not adopt this law, and through the adoption phase, I believe that any improvements can also be made in the text of the articles, if necessary. Above all, it seems to me that the positive progress of introducing this law over a little longer period of time, and in this stage of introduction, I believe that if it is found to be truly human and ultimately normal, because we do not have a Probefahrt, some practical time in the implementation of the law itself, if at this stage the law finds that there are some shortcomings in the law, that, of course, they will be eliminated, as it were, in the interest of a successful agriculture and a satisfied farmer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you, too. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. After him, Mr. Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. In the last two discussions - I don't know, I doubt we're from the same movie as I'm listening to these discussions. I don't have much time, but we'll have some time on the board. See if anyone needs a permanent or stable business environment, they are farmers. At all, small takers, don't joke that we can fix anything else by 2020, but that we can improve. They must now decide whether to go to farming or whether to take over the farm or not. They are working under this law for 2020 and not for 2017. The 2017 calculations will come, decisions, in 2018 in May, June, just before the elections, to make it a lower income. And you'll do more damage with social benefits and more [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u111	One last debater. Mr. Zajc, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to start my debate a little differently than I originally did, but I think I have to respond. But I didn't want to abuse Mr Tank's procedural proposal earlier, because I don't think I want it to become my style. What was I gonna say? It seems unacceptable to me that Mr Podkorodek puts his words in the mouth of our Prime Minister. The fact that it understands that the President of the Government does not care about rural areas is, in my view, simply unacceptable. To put such things in the mouth of a man who is not here, in my opinion, cannot happen here and you cannot understand, Mr Podkoršek – because he is no longer here – that he does not care about the countryside, because that is simply not true. I wish that we were no longer talking in this way in the National Assembly, but I understand that any opportunity that you Members of the SDS get is necessary with a raised hand throughout this government. But maybe it would be better in a different way. Now for the law that we are considering today. Why does a new method have to be introduced? The old method used data that we no longer collect, are too small, are not up-to-date, are unreliable, which means that we already have to accept something new based on data that we have, are up-to-date and that will be reliable. However, the other thing that might be less pleasant is that experts have identified and thus the representatives of farmers and farmers themselves have agreed that the existing or old arrangements were not realistic, that the cadastral income was actually underestimated and that if we want to be fair to all citizens, it means that the method must be adapted so as to be fair and realistic. If this means that, in some cases, the cadastral income has been reduced, in others has been increased, it is fine, but it must, of course, be fair to all citizens. When we talk about this law, it may be necessary to ask ourselves for a moment what it has broken, because it seems to me that we are slightly forgetting what flat-rate tax means, flat-rate taxation. This means that we are going to a simpler, more robust, more transparent way of taxation. And that also means that it will not always be pure for everyone fair. But if we want to have flat-rate taxation, it's one of the things we need to rent. Every time we talk about flat-rate taxation, I often remember our sessions, where we talk about anything possible, even beyond the darkness. And I remember that many times we mentioned a guest who would like flat-rate taxation to look at how many tables she has, and then there would be such a tax in general, that is to say flat-rate. But when we have a flat-rate tax in agriculture, we start talking fast about what if that year is a bad year; what if it doesn't sell that much; what if prices fall; and you count here on average. But this is what happens if you impose a flat-rate tax or decide to pay flat-rate taxes. She won't always be fair. And if you think she's so guilty of you, you still have a chance in Slovenia to be taxed on actual costs and on actual incomes. So you're going to bookkeeping. And here I could turn to Mr Lach's initial debate or to the presentation of his position. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course he has a connection. If you feel that your income is not the same as that of a catastrophe income, then you decide to show what kind of income you really have; and that is real income. And that can also be done by those who find that they will lose EUR 5,000 or as much as you mentioned earlier. If he thinks it's really unfair that he doesn't have that kind of income, then he can prove that he's taxed on actual income. I think that the adoption of this law has shown some good practice of cooperating with everyone concerned by this legislation. And I think that's why the product that came to our tables now is relatively very good. Many of the proposals and concerns raised during the public debate are taken into account; and this seems fine to me because such things need to be heard because the view of a ministry may be misunderstood by farmers; and vice versa. If you can get that on the table and figure out where the differences are and where you can get it together, then you get a product that I think is a good example of the law. As regards those who will be greatly jumped by the KD, it is important to stress and once again to say that this cap is being prepared in the Income Act so that no one will be raised twice. We will keep our word, for we are such a government to stick to what we say. There is no need to fear that someone will truly be buried by this marriage because we will be careful not to let it happen. And I'd like to go to the numbers a little bit, because it's very scary to talk about percentages. It's nice to see what these percentages really mean in numbers. Mr. Lisec was very well afraid of what would happen about a third. Yes, a third will increase depending on the current KD – then the income will have to be paid if we are looking at an effective rate of income tax – for 12 euros. The percentage goes up, but for the whole year it'll be 12 euros. For the highest, it is said for those top 10%, and we are talking about an increase of 40 euros. The rest, however, are in the middle of €23. In short, we are not talking about very large numbers, but we are speaking as a percentage. But that comes from where I started. The profession, calculations and farmers themselves know that the old method of determining cadastral income has been underestimated. That's why they're so jumpy, but nominally they're still not that scary. As far as complementary activities are concerned. Complementary activities shall not be regulated in this law and shall come later. The first, the processing of its own products, will also be arranged to be taken into account in the income of each agricultural household, flat-rate or as part of the cadastral income. And that's what's coming. The good thing about this law is also that intensive cultures are put into basic agricultural activity and this is how these farmers are burdened by the issuance of invoices and red tape, which is part of it; tax collectors and so on. That's another thing we're going against the farmers with. We stress beekeeping. Despite the economic calculation, which shows different costs, we have listened, we are aware, as Dr Horvat's colleague told me before, that we are aware of the importance of the bees, so we have listened to this and went against their proposal that the recognised costs are 80%. We are equally aware of the importance of the forest and, as I mentioned earlier, also the garden where we want our self-sustainment to increase in these parts. I think that those things that may still be open and will prove problematic, we still have some time during the debate or during the adoption of this law to correct them. In general, I think that the law is already very well coordinated, that it is not good, that it will not justify these fears that many of the opposition wants to make; but that it will then be seen that the law is actually well prepared. As far as the transitional period is concerned, it is necessary to know that even after the transitional period, 74 % of the agricultural households referred to in this title under EUR 200 will still be under this heading, it is said that they will pay nothing for their income and do not have to be afraid. For others, as I mentioned earlier, there will be jumps at the top 40 euros. Of course, then we have these peaks, which we will also save and we will not let them happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u113	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government as a proponent. The word is from a representative of the Magi Government. Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! The starting point for us is that agricultural and forestry activities are one of economic activities with their legality and specificities. These specificities are also recognised or recognised in the way of determining potential income and in the specific way in which income from this activity is taxed. In order to determine the flat-rate estimate of potential market income per hectare of land, the current system set out very complex calculations and huge indicators. This resulted in the treatment of individual agricultural land in one region or in a completely different calculation of the cadastral income as a land of the same quality at the other end of Slovenia. The proposed new solution and the greater robustness of determining cadastral income eliminates this illogicality. The agricultural land of the same quality will bear the same cadastral income, say the same quality and in the same type of use, had the same cadastral income attributed regardless of whether it is located in Prekmurje or elsewhere. The problem of mountain farms mentioned in the debate is addressed through the fact that cadastral income is determined differently according to the quality of the land, according to the so-called credit points or by the growth coefficient in forest land. And these solutions enable mountain farms, or farms, where owners have larger areas under the larger slopes, to adapt their cadastral incomes as well. However, we must not bring all solutions only into the cadastral income. Just as we are talking about mountain farms, they gain more subsidies for production in areas with limited factors, so-called OMD subsidies, which are completely excluded from income tax. Furthermore, it was mentioned that it was unacceptable for cadastral income to be used for different purposes. Catastrophe income as an estimate of potential market income on a given agricultural land is a method of facilitating the determination of the possible yield of that land or, if you would like, the possible income of agricultural activity. Since I said earlier that agricultural activity is one of economic activities, a similar regime applies in other economic activities where individual rights or obligations are linked either to income or to income. In a similar way, we estimate that agricultural or forestry activities should also be taken into account. Furthermore, several times in the debate it was mentioned that exceptional circumstances or emergency situations should be taken into account, as well as the possibility of natural harm in the calculation of cadastral income. Our assessment is that cadastral income must be calculated as a potential market income under normal conditions; while individual exceptional circumstances or natural conditions are taken into account through specific arrangements or specific provisions contained in the Income Act and similar rules. The stability of the system and predictability are certainly extremely important. That is why we have introduced a transitional period and special solutions limiting the rise of cadastral income during this transitional period. This gives this system, which we propose, a certain greater measure of stability. It also gives it a greater degree of stability of solutions, not counting cadastral income for each year on the sole basis of the data of the previous year; but taking into account the average of the past five years, which also allows for greater predictability and stability in the cadastral income as a basis for calculating certain obligations; not only obligations but also rights. Today's debate has highlighted some of the points that still need to be addressed in the debates and in the coordination of the second reading of the bill's proposal in the National Assembly, since the accounts or today's debate have somehow confirmed to me that we can count on the State Assembly to confirm that the bill is suitable for further consideration. I expect that, in a similar constructive spirit, we will continue in the second reading, and I would like to stress once again that we consider it extremely important and extremely urgent that, in the case of your support, we can also prepare all the implementation solutions in a timely manner to come into force as of 1 January 2017, there is also a sub-legislative act and an implementation procedure so that, if possible, the National Assembly can confirm the proposal before the summer holidays. I'm asking for your support in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can only see one hand. Mrs. Iva Dimic's your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. New Slovenia has made it clear that it will strongly oppose such adoption and we will vote against the adoption of the Cadastrian Income Act in such a way; especially because there have been many speeches, even when we have dealt with the tax registers, so that the matter will be settled when the cadastral income is determined under the new law. Indeed, one part has been identified or taken into account, there are mainly beles, asparagus and other plantations; but I would like to reiterate here what we have also wanted with all the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture to achieve that the first processing is also under cadastral income, it is said from the complementary activity under the basic agricultural activity; and this also takes account of this cadastral income. This law that we have before us today doesn't take that into account. It seems to me that this is a very serious damage and an answer to all those who have hoped that things will somehow be resolved in this area. You spoke about the growth coefficient and the land ratings, but let me say that according to the latest information we have obtained, the comments of the Association of Forest Owners regarding the distance of roads and the height and inclination of wood harvesting were not taken into account. It seems to me that there is simply no understanding here for all those areas in Slovenia that are steep, because there is virtually no way to harvest wood, unless they are extra tight for some sanitary lawn. I don't know, did you ever assume that a helicopter would be the best way to get those logs?Oh, my God! I don't understand. And these were the comments in which we hoped that you would take them into account when adopting this law. And one thing is, today the gentleman from the former composition of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, who said – we are not going to land. All representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture, as well as naturalists, came. The problem of game is extremely pressing in Slovenia. We also visited the Chebron farm when we visited Goriška, where the owner said they had a recognised damage amounting to 50,000 euros. I'm talking about an individual case. And none of this has yet been received or received an offer if they land on EUR 15 000; but they actually suffered damage after a wild of EUR 50 000. What's that? Whether these are three, or five hectares of crops destroyed, the radical, in that area. And so they say to these people who have suffered or suffer damage after the wild, that they do not consent to any increase in the cadastral income, because neither does the government nor the naturalists agree to lower the number of wildlings in Slovenia. One thing is not going well, we will leave the number of wildlings as it is; on the other hand we will say that we will raise self-sustainment, even on the lawns and salads, because it is somehow low in Slovenia; on the other hand, it will be food for the game that will come out of the forest. It seems to me that when such an important law is adopted – because it is an important law because it is a tax law because it is raising taxes in the country – I will not then hear about it on a committee: our government has not raised any taxes; of course it has raised it much – to take these matters into account. And once again, I don't understand, Madam Secretary of State, that you haven't come any closer at the Finance Ministry to all those who want the first processing to be exempted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Dimic. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance wants to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Indeed, today we did not specifically expose the problems of first processing; not because it would not be solved, but because it was not regulated by the Cadastrian Income Law, but by the Income Act. It is the case that the first stage of processing of agricultural crops to a limited extent is similar to that of some other countries, in order not to identify the income from this first processing but to be considered included in the basic cadastral income. And this is the solution provided for in the draft Income Law. The concrete text of the proposal is already being coordinated with interested NGOs. You will have to understand, then, that our interlocutor is a member of NGOs in the field of agriculture who have been authorized by these organisations to talk to us. With regard to forests or the identification of cadastral income from forests, let us mention two things. We have already foreseen in this bill that flat-rate recognised costs in forest management are 80%, although economic calculation shows a lower actual cost. And even through this, certain specificities are recognised for individual forests, in some flat-rate way, which means that someone can be much better than his actual situation; yet someone else may still have even higher costs, but to a large extent the problems of greater steepness or vertical distances are also recognized through this increased amount of recognised costs in forestry activities. In addition, let me explain that we have already announced in the explanation of the law that further consideration should be given to certain constraints such as steep and vertical distances in determining the classes under which individual forests are dealt with. We have received a concrete proposal from interested NGOs in this regard today, so that we will examine the matter in more detail by next week. You'll understand that today was practically impossible. However, once again, the economic account, which is a statistical basis for determining cadastral income in the case of forests, takes into account the actual intervention, not the potential one. Actual intervention. If it was not possible to cut in a given area due to different circumstances, this is indeed recognised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you, too. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 21 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 6. In the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management of the first defense. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed Mr Luke Moonec. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Luke of the Month requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Luke Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! With the law before us, we are renewing more than 20 years old Act on the participation of workers in governance, the fundamental law on co-ordination in Slovenia, which was named as the labour constitution at the time of adoption. After 20 years of implementation of this law, it is unfortunately clear that co-management in Slovenia is in crisis. This is identified by members of the workers' councils and also by trade unions. The old law is in principle good, but unfortunately in practice it is becoming less and less useful. That is why we need a renewed law, which will serve as a manual for workers on the one hand, and, on the other hand, as a safeguard for the exercise of the right to self-government, which is a constitutional right guaranteed by Article 75 of the Constitution. A worker who can exercise his individual rights cannot become a victim of a mobile phone. The collection, which has a good working world, works – proven with all the research – more safely, with less stress. Businesses with developed co-management also have significantly better business results throughout the research. The Association of Workers' Councils has been working for the reform of the old law in Slovenia since 2010. The first proposal came to Parliament at the initiative of the then MEP. Franca Žnidaršič, now president of the DSD, who is a member of the United Left. We have prepared the current proposal together with the association. Last fall we presented it in all major cities in Slovenia, and later we aligned it with union centres. The proposal, which is now before me, has the support of all seven union centres and the umbrella association, namely the Association of Workers' Councils. We believe that this is clear enough evidence that the law responds to the real problems of co-management, to the real problems that employees face in companies. The law isn't even doctrinal or radical. It's not even media interesting, so we don't raise ratings with him, we proposed the law as an emergency minimum, and we aligned it with the unions. We have also been prepared to coordinate with the coalition and with the ministry; the only condition we have put in place is that the existing level of rights is not being reduced. I will present the main solutions later on according to the positions presented. Before that, I would like to draw the attention of the Members and Members present to the most likely manoeuvre that the Government will take behind me. The government will ask us not to support the law because it was not put into consideration in the Economic and Social Council. However, you know that no parliamentary group can give any law to the Economic and Social Council, because we are not social partners in the parliamentary groups. This can only be done by the Government, which is a social partner, but has not done so, despite the fact that we have already transmitted the law to the Government more than three months ago. Moreover, after we had an explicit desire to do so, even though we are not a social partner, the unions actually put this law into consideration; but the law was not dealt with in the Economic and Social Council, because, I quote, "The government could not guarantee the presence". It could also be considered today, but today the ESS meeting has fallen away again, and this time the employers have not been able to provide the presence. It is clear who sabotaged social dialogue and why this law was not dealt with. Of course, the purpose of these manoeuvres is only one thing — that everyone is trying to maintain the status quo, which is obviously in the interests of employers. They are the only interest group that benefits from the fact that workers cannot actively and effectively co-decision. When we presented the bill to the unions, it was the first response, I quote, "what if the government and employers use the opening of this law to reduce rights?" The government would obviously like to sit on two chairs; on the one hand, it advocates economic democracy, which it has even set as one of the priorities; and in practice, it supports employers with such manoeuvres. This is not a social dialogue. The first consideration is only the beginning of the legislative process, here you have a platform supported by all the working organisations in the country. It chooses before us and it is clear to you whether we will support more than 900,000 employees in Slovenia or a small number of managers of employers' organisations. Our choice is clear – let the worker make the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Peter Pogačar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The area of participation of workers in management deals with an important issue and undoubtedly represents a way to address the permanent conflict arising between work and capital. The participation of workers in management is also, we all know, a means of making businesses more efficient and efficient. There's no doubt about it. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers the current Act on the participation of workers in management to be internationally comparable, consistent with the European regulation of the field of information and consultation and other national legislation, which also confirms the decisions already taken by the Constitutional Court to certain legal articles which have been challenged. We agree that the law in force would need to be reformed in the works which proved inadequate during the implementation of the law; nor should we ignore developments in the field of workers' participation in governance. Certain changes and further developments would certainly help to increase the satisfaction and commitment of workers and increase productivity. We note that, while the bill represents a comprehensive, thorough substantive, terminological and nomological overhaul of the field of workers' participation in management, it amends more than two-thirds of the provisions of the current law. First of all, I would like to point out the fundamental flaw in the proposal, which is social dialogue. According to the international organisation, there are certain conditions for establishing an effective social dialogue. These conditions are also based on trust between the social partners. Remember, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has in the past agreed with the adoption of the Law on Complementation of the Minimum Wage Act, which was also tabled by the United Left Group without consulting the social partners. Why? Because that's how it was. This resulted in the fall of the 2015-2016 Social Agreement, which was concluded with effort for the first time since 2007. Nor has the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in the management before the submission to the National Assembly been submitted and submitted for consideration to all social partners within the Economic and Social Council. In doing so, I would like to point out the applicable rules of operation of the Economic and Social Council, to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is bound. It is clear from these rules that the area of participation of workers in management is one of the main areas of action of the Economic and Social Council. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also submits all draft laws regulating relations between workers and employers to the Economic and Social Council for consideration, since it can thus maintain trust between all three partners. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the reform of the law governing the field of workers' participation in management needs a broad and thorough treatment of all stakeholders, not only of interest but also of content. It is not appropriate to change this regime without prior substantive coordination between all social partners. A reordered and uncoordinated amendment of legislation with the employer could have exactly the opposite effects of the desired, which would not benefit workers or employers; and consequently not the entire economy. In the case of such legislative changes, we must all work together to engage in constructive dialogue and achieve the broadest possible consensus of all stakeholders. Let me just remind you that this Thursday the Council of the European Union addressed a document entitled New Launch of a Strong Social Dialogue, which highlights the importance of social dialogue at the dipartite and tripartite level, and means the involvement of the social partners in any reform that has an impact on the labour market and the social sector. On the basis of that Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the law does not support and proposes to the National Assembly not to accept it as appropriate for the further phase of the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you. I would like to point out that Rule 61 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the National Assembly is not in a position to decide on matters on which the relevant material has not been provided to Members. In this opinion, the government has not defined the content of the law, but, as I have foreseen, has already challenged it in advance at the procedural level. At this procedural level, I would like to stress once again what I have said before, the guilt that this law was not on the ESF is not on the side of the Group of Members of the United Left because we are not a social partner. The blame is on the Government, which received this law three months ago, but did not put it in coordination with the Economic and Social Council. If I give you an analogy, Mr Pogačar, here you are wrong, last year, when he came to the Parliament of the Minimum Wages Act, we did not put that in the United Left. This came to the civil initiative of the unions, which are a social partner, and yet you have given the government – you have given, not the union – this matter to the Economic and Social Council. The case you are referring to proves quite the contrary that the Government is the one who should. We are a qualified billmaker here, not for investing in the Economic and Social Council; you are the one who should take care of it. But I do have a question for the president. Will you allow an examination of a law against which the government has failed to provide appropriate material? Thus, we do not have the substantive opinion of the Government required of us by Rule 61 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u125	Mr Mesec, I respect your opinion, this is today's final item of the agenda, and the Government has given its opinion no matter what we as individuals think. I propose that we proceed with the debate and that you also have the opportunity to ask the Secretary of State with questions, and we will end our valuable assessments. I propose that we proceed with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We continue with the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, on its behalf Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u126	President, thank you so much for your word. Good day to you all! The reasons for the adoption of the law stem from the opinion of the applicants that the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management is outdated, subordinated and that more thorough renovations are needed, as a number of weaknesses have been shown to hinder the faster development of the system of cooperation of workers in management in the Republic of Slovenia. It is worth noting that the so-called subordination has been dealt with on several occasions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which has found that there are no inconsistencies with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the proposaler, the concept of the current law is still based on a misleading understanding of labour co-management as some means of aid for the exercise and security of labour rights rather than on the independent importance of the labour participation for the rights of the individual and the democratic society; at the same time an important mechanism for the sustainable development of the economy. It is one-sided, and in some ways it could be said that there is an ideological view of the participation of workers in governance, which no economically successful country in the European Union knows with such solutions as proposed in this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we can rightly ask why we actually have the Economic and Social Council in our country if the applicants propose a law that goes beyond all established practices; and especially because it is the area of participation of workers in the management of the core areas of the Economic and Social Council. In doing so, we also underline the call of those operating within the Economic and Social Council who oppose the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management, as not all economic stakeholders were involved. For economic companies are the bearer of key obligations and those who will apply the law daily in their practice. Otherwise, it is a good point of this law to regulate very closely the procedures for the election and appointment of workers to the authorities involved in the management, although some groups of workers also disproportionately limit passive and active electoral rights. However, the law is unfortunately not only inconsistent with the social partners, but with its solutions it has a strong impact on the management and management of companies and thus on the concept of governance as we know it in the Slovenian legal system. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will not support the bill because we are convinced that social dialogue in adopting such important legislation is necessary and important that we come up with solutions that could actually change things for the better; only in cooperation. It is not possible to take into account just one side and those who may be a little closer to our heart or even cooperate with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you, too. We continue with the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, in its name mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u128	Dear Members and Members, the rest are present! In the Desus Group, we welcome the basic purpose of the proposalr to implement the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, which will finally come to life in practice. We believe that there is a recognised need to address the shortcomings that have been affecting the functioning of the labour participation system in management for many years. Since this is difficult and extensive material, we were convinced in the Desus Group that it was right to have a general debate on the law first. As we presented the bill in the Desus Group, we considered that it would be reasonable for the applicants to have undertaken comprehensive legislative reforms; particularly because the steps taken so far have not produced the relevant fruits. We certainly agree that greater engagement of employees in management can contribute significantly to better business performance and performance. As a result, it is also a positive contribution to better human relations. It is understandable that a positive atmosphere in the company contributes to better performance and employees can be proud of the good work they have done. Unfortunately, relations in companies today are largely far from the theoretical concept, followed in some way by the proposed law. That is why we think the expansion of some of the workers' rights is a good shift towards greater added value, which will contribute to the satisfaction of the employees. Of course, greater rights also bring greater responsibility. The new solutions eliminate exceptions to labour participation in espionage, banks and insurance companies, provide more appropriate material and other conditions for the work of labour councils and other labour representative offices, by special regulation of the field of taxes for the Council of Workers, by increasing the labour protection of workers' representatives, by more precisely defining the duties of employers to workers' councils, by extending the powers of the Council of Workers also in relation to the joint consultation, co-decision and the possibility of retaining the employer's decisions, and so on. In addition, they shall regulate in more detail the arbitral resolution of self-government disputes. The criminal provisions of the law are also supplemented. A number of amendments and additions are proposed in relation to the selection and recall procedures. The responsibility of the workers' councils is tightened; changes are proposed in relation to the saints of the workers of the groups. The proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management aims to remedy the terminological and nomological shortcomings of the applicable law and to define the individual concepts more clearly. In the Desus Group, we have reservations about certain provisions of the law, and we believe that we should discuss them further or negotiate appropriate compromises with the stakeholders concerned. We know that the Desus Group supports the social foundations of the country, so the idea of better and better working conditions and greater workers' rights seemed even more attractive and meaningful. That is why we have decided to listen to the bill's proponents and give them the opportunity to present the individual provisions of the law in a more detailed and reasoned manner. We expect that, by the end of the discussion, the proposers of the proposed law on the participation of workers in management will give us a more detailed presentation of the advantages of the law and tell us how they envisioned the functioning of the law in practice. In the Desus Group, we are aware that there is still a major gap between the positions of the Association of Workers' Councils and the Association of Employers of Slovenia towards this law, as the two organizations currently express completely conflicting opinions on the proposal of the law and therefore stand on completely different shores. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we advocate that in the case of laws governing relations between workers and employers, regardless of the obstacles we have already heard about today, an acceptable compromise could be found within the Economic and Social Council in the provisions of the bill. However, in the Desus Group, we will decide on possible support for the law after today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u129	Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u130	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In life, it's important to my notions that if you want to get to the goal, you have to make arrangements, talk, and above all you need to hear. If anyone, then the Social Democrats are the first to support the development and greater validity of economic democracy in Slovenia. We have proven this several times in the past, including by proposing, as today, the United Left, compulsory participation of workers in profits. Even though we were significantly larger, this unfortunately did not receive support in the National Assembly because we were a coalition party. We hope so, and we are confident that we will be more successful in this content in the future. And here I invite you to participate. As part of our economic programme for fairer taxes and stronger middle class, we have come up with a new proposal for the participation of workers in profits. This goes beyond the current regime, which we must acknowledge is ineffective because it has been the product of some compromises. In the framework of the broader plan for excessive tax changes, we believe that the proposal will receive support because workers deserve it in particular. Why am I explaining this, ladies and gentlemen? Because the participation of workers in profit and management and labour ownership are three pillars of economic democracy. The proposer, in this case the United Left, states that the current Act on the participation of workers in the management of a number of weaknesses. Indeed, we agree that the current legal system is not good and that it needs to be ventilated. Regrettably, the proposed amendments to the law did not go the right way. And I know that I will probably now hear how only one and the only ones who are involved in working and working people are, and that everyone else should be working in the interests of capital, but I assure you that is not the case. Why do I say that? Because this bill was already the subject of the work of a government project group for economic democracy and cooperation. It agreed that this material should be settled within the ministries and, above all, within the framework of the public debate. It is here that concerns my concepts also the key to a solution to all these solutions, in particular and exclusively through social dialogue. The lack of social dialogue, in particular on the issue of labour buy-ins, can cause a lot of problems. Not because social Democrats would not agree with certain good solutions to today's proposal supported by trade unions and holy workers; but because of the incomplete implementation of the established practice of social dialogue and the Economic and Social Council, through which, ladies and gentlemen, we should find consensus and consensus in most of the matter. Trade unions' consensus and employers' consensus; to improve workers' participation in managing solutions that will benefit everyone – workers, employers and the economy in general. Unfortunately, the applicant did not decide on this path. For a path that is, of course, harder and requires much more work, coordination, arrangements. Of course, he preferred to introduce the law into the parliamentary procedure himself. Probably, I hope, with sincere intentions, to bring about economic democracy. Even more so, I think these sincere intentions are primarily political promotions without a realistic assessment of the ability to support the law. I am also saying this in a way from experience, because I too have been in opposition. But that's not really surprising. Why? For these hand-to-hand actions, social dialogue is a problem rather than a solution. I quote one of the proponents who said a while ago: "Peaceful talks of the so-called social dialogue do not lead anywhere." End of quote. Social Democrats, comrades and comrades, we disagree. The same views are shared by trade unions, which advocate that such solutions should follow social dialogue; discussion, negotiation and resolution of common problems for the well-being of people. And this is how the Social Democrats picture changes in the participation of workers in economic governance – through social dialogue. We are aware that economic democracy is good for people and the economy, as the cooperatives of workers have often proved to be more effective than traditional businesses. At the same time, with the proposal for a better employee participation in profit, we have also drawn up a proposal for a labour redemption law. With this, we want to enable workers to strengthen economic democracy by means of labour buy-backs in accordance with cooperative principles and thus become owners and managers in the companies in which they work. The main objective of our proposal for a law is to ensure the conditions for the successful implementation of labour buy-ins when the buy-in initiative takes place. This means that, in accordance with the proposal of the law, it is necessary to provide, for the first time, effective financial support, a support environment for the implementation of labour buy-ins and appropriate professional assistance to workers in the execution of the buy-in themselves. We believe and hope that our proposal for a law will receive support in the National Assembly in a short time. But it doesn't matter who's first under the law; it doesn't matter who puts it in. We have made an offer in some way, and I believe that either the Ministry of Economy or the entire coalition and also the opposition can decide and this law can be tabled together. Even if we are not signed first by the Social Democrats, in this case we must not go for prestige. This will fill the missing gap in economic democracy in the field of labour ownership. Unfortunately, the social democrats of today's unilateral proposal by the United Left, despite some good solutions from the labour and union council, cannot support it; because we believe that one of the preconditions of economic democracy is also a social dialogue, which is unfortunately forgotten by the proponents, whether willing or unwilling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, chairman. All we need to know about social dialogue is that, in the case of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, which we have submitted to the United Left, this social dialogue simply did not occur because the Government and employers have briefly sabotaged it. Important news of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, proposed by the Socialists, will be presented by Comrade Mesec. It will explain the real problems it solves and how it will contribute to improving the situation of employees in Slovenia. On behalf of the United Left Group, I will present the situation in the area of co-ordination and our reasons why we have tabled this law. As is known, labour management is one of the main requirements of the United Left. It is included in our programme because it would make a significant contribution to the freedom of each individual, to the elimination of exploitation and to the increase of prosperity. The participation of workers in management or co-management may be a step towards working management, which itself contributes to better quality of working life, increasing the power of workers against capital. In addition, it can improve the productivity of the company and the economy as a whole. This can only be achieved if the representatives of the workers represent the interests of their collective, so it must not be an extension of the management or the bounce of the workers' aristocracy. In Germany, in particular, some trade unions and social-democratic parties used economic democracy to pacify workers instead of creating a revolutionary class force. And with us, co-management was introduced as compensation for self-governance. The United Left is not a party to social dialogue, but a anti-capitalist party. Our long-term goal is not a compromise between work and capital, but an end to capitalism. Every acquisition of workers and workers' organisations makes sense only if we do not lose sight of this long-term objective. Otherwise, we will lose more in the long run than we have in the short term. This confirms the entire history of capitalism, and today all Slovenian workers feel this legality. Even 30 years ago, it was inconceivable that in Slovenia there would be no full employment, now the whole industry is sentenced to fine work or long-term unemployment. For the generation of our parents, it was unimaginable that instead of working indefinitely, employers would force them to open espies or to hire them through agencies. Who could have thought we'd be the first generation after the war, condemned to live worse than her parents. We have been brought here by transition, joining Europe and social dialogue. This is proof that without a socialist alternative we will not maintain this level of prosperity and development that we have achieved; it is also with co-management. Without changing the law and greater involvement of workers and trade unions, this co-ordination will become an empty folklore. If we are to achieve that co-management will contribute in the long term to improving the situation of all those working and to eliminating class differences, we need to provide two already – workers' representatives must be responsible to a collective that can call them off at any time. This right of workers is preserved by law and will be more easily exercised by workers. On the other hand, we must ensure the solidarity of workers in all sectors and in the economy as a whole. The guarantee is that the salaries and working conditions are not negotiated by the isolated saints of workers, but by the business unions involved in the trade unions. This is an essential feature of our model of co-ordination, which is maintained in this law. In this too, our model differs from the German model, in which there are no business unions, but entrepreneurship collective agreements are signed by quite sacred workers. The socialists are not alone behind this, but we are joined by all trade unions. This also does not mean that trade unions and individual labour councils do not cooperate, but simply means ensuring the responsibility of workers' representatives to their working group and, at the same time, horizontal solidarity between workers. After all the other essential solutions, our model is no different from German; it adapts to our practice and needs. Our own practice of co-management shows that labour rights have not been acquired, but they need to be collected. When the current Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management was adopted in 1993, the conditions for co-management were significantly better than today. Living was a tradition of self-governance. Workers were aware of their rights and knew how to enforce them. Many companies were mainly employees. Today's practices of mobile and illegal exploitation have not yet existed. The unions had several members, while at the same time there were fewer unions and trade unions. Workers were better organized and stronger than today, while management and capital were weaker. Thus, in the beginning, working groups and large-scale trade unions set up holy workers. Co-operation was certainly one of the elements of the Slovenian economic system, which provided workers and society with a higher standard than in comparable countries. From 1993 to the accession of the European Union and the takeover of the euro from GDP, Slovenia has continuously caught up with the central states of the European Union. Growth was organic, without the indebtedness of companies and countries abroad. Until September 2015, our external debt was lower than debts abroad, and public debt was never more than 30% of the gross social product. The number of employees and the standard thus increased so that Slovenia reached 25th place according to the Human Development Index, which has also placed us in front of all southern European countries. After the European Union's final accession and the euro's takeover, the victory of neoliberalism and the lost decade have come. Last year, Slovenia was still less employed than in 2005. Between 2005 and 2008, 60,000 new jobs were created and lost by the end of 2011, and by the end of 2013, 20,000 additional jobs were added. We've got whole sectors where all we've got is a bunch of espionage or agencies. The 2009 ECB survey showed that 10% of the richest people in Slovenia own a good 35% of all assets, and by contrast, 20% of the poorest have only 1.2%. To put it another way, 20% of the most powerful Slovenians own more than 52% of their assets, says more than the other 80%. My generation is the first generation after World War II to live worse than their parents. This clearly shows that without radicalisation, by continuing social dialogue with ever-increasing capital, we will not maintain the current standard; it is only to increase this standard. These circumstances have a direct impact on co-management, workers are atomized, they are intimidated; unions have fewer and fewer members at the same time, and they are increasingly fragmented themselves. There is no unity, there is no power from the ground, and they leave them to be frowned upon by government and capital in social dialogue. When we presented our draft law to the headquarters, it was one of the first responses, what if employers used the legislative process to reduce rights. In short, the current law was created in a situation of weak capital and well-organised work. Today these times are unfortunately over, so for ever more workers the right to co-decision, as enshrined in Article 75 of the Constitution, is pure abstraction. How many companies with less than 20 employees does the employee have? How many young workers currently employed know that the employer is obliged to answer his questions and initiatives within 30 days? That is why we need a law that workers can directly apply, and we need more living quorums to elect and recall workers' representatives. We must banish the management from the working authorities and protect the working representatives from the bullying of the organs. Since Comrade Moon will present the solutions more precisely, I will stop at the end for the ideological reasons why we advocate working management. Labour management is primarily a humanist project. A man who works 40 years, 5 days a week, after 8 hours a day, subordinated to the fate of a factory, as Marx would say, is not a free man. Decision - making is an essential element of every human activity, so a person who cannot decide on the conditions of his work is an unfree man. For us, codecision is human rights, although it is not explicitly enshrined in conventions. However, the Philadelphia Declaration of the International Labour Organization of 1944 states that the workforce is not mild. The treasure is something that the owner is freely at his disposal with. If management has a monopoly on decision-making, it can treat workers like goods. And if a worker gets out of this exploitation regime, there is a country, because a worker who has cancelled his job alone has no right to social assistance. When managers and politicians prohibit co-decision, this is justified by the fact that workers are not able to decide on business issues. Politicians who decide on all areas of social life tell workers that they have no idea. Few politicians are a top expert in an area, no one can be an expert in all areas. However, at this meeting alone, we decided on safety on skis, excise duties, forced bank termination, education organisation, health insurance, we discussed who would be the guardian of the Korean boys. Of course, it is not the chemical’s job to solve the technical issues involved in electronics. It is a matter of equal treatment for workers to lay down the company’s basic guidelines, to appoint managers to monitor them and, where appropriate, to recall them. They can be educated and given an appropriate professional basis, as should be the case in parliamentary policy. It is that management becomes part of a collective that works in the common interest instead of being untouchable caste with unlimited privileges. If you deprive workers of this right because they do not have an education or business experience, this is as if you had set professional conditions for Members and Ministers. And precisely this ban today applies to bank employees, extremely strict conditions apply to employees in insurance companies, the SDH will require such conditions for workers' directors in our companies. This practice can only be terminated by the adoption of this law. Those who advocate a free and equal society cannot oppose labour management. It is true, however, that labour management cannot be fully realized in capitalism. The requirements of abstract humanism can only be realized by socialism. Two pillars of future socialism will be labour management and corporate social property. Workers in the company will decide everything that management decides today. Instead of a collective subordinated to management, the management will be subordinated to the collective. Such working management is not utopia. It can be achieved by transforming the labour authorities, which are now voluntary, into mandatory business bodies. It can be realized that the saints of the workers become the working saints who will take over the task of the supervisory councils to direct and supervise management. Everything that the owners and the financial sector decide on today, in particular with the increase in capital and investment, will be decided by the authorities which will represent all workers in the country and in general all citizens. These authorities will not decide irrationally on the basis of market information but on the basis of actual needs. Today, large monopolistic companies, public institutions or good development banks are planning activities in a planned way. The positive impact of labour management on productivity will be discussed by other colleagues from the parliamentary group, and at the end of my position I will reject the mistaken belief that historical socialism has failed because labour management is ineffective. All serious empirical studies have shown that self - control really existed primarily on paper. Among Slovenian sociologists, research was carried out in particular by Arzenšek, Rus and Jerovšek. It turned out that he was in charge of companies, often also a direct political class. The dependence of workers on management was the largest in the export sector industry. Labour management was implemented only in sectors with highly educated workers, where workers are also technically in charge of production. Labour management could therefore not have been the cause of the Yugoslav economic crisis, as the rest remained unfulfilled. Even less could be the cause of the crisis of ethical economies, which did not largely recognise labour management at all or on paper. The global economic crisis, which began in the 1970s, was a major cause of the crisis of the socialist countries; it is known in the West under the name of stagflation. In developing countries, this crisis has manifested itself as a debt crisis and has equally affected the socialist and capitalist developing countries. The only difference between Mexico, Yugoslavia or the Soviet Union was that Mexico was not exposed to military, political and ideological pressure from the United States. Today, the school economy also sees the consequences of the neoliberal plant at the end of the 1970s, which today brings inequality back to the level of the 19th century. And our citizens also felt on their skin what it means to restore capitalism by denationalisation, ownership and privatisation. My generation understands very well that capitalism does not lead to the development and well-being of all, but rather to the privileges and wealth of 10% of the population at best. In the United Left, we are not heirs to the pre-transition regime, we do not own his credits, let alone inherit his privileges. However, when discussing co-management, it is right to make a realistic assessment of the history of labour management, because without it we cannot understand its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u133	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u134	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Christian Democrats are committed to incorporating European standards into our labour law and to ensuring working conditions, working time, leave, protection at work, conditions of employment or termination of employment. However, the management of areas such as labour co-management must take place in a social dialogue between employers and workers. Social dialogue is the highest form of cooperation and negotiated resolution of disputes between stakeholders in the field of labour. The Joint Left addressed the real problem with the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management. Also with the participation of workers in business management, we can solve the labour issue in one part; but not the way the United Left proposes. Their fundamental error stems from the assumption that there is an urgent conflict between work and capital and that it cannot be resolved peacefully. Christian Democrats know that workers and employers bear basic human dignity and need each other. It is a dynamic relationship of cooperation with one another. Another fundamental mistake of the United Left is that trade unions, here we think mainly Slovenian trade unions, bearers of the exercise of labour rights vis-à-vis employers. Unfortunately, we must say here that Slovenian trade unions have been completely cancelled in the past in solving the labour issue. Let us only remember the spontaneous labour riots that took place in Gorenje Velenje in 2009, where workers and workers resisted unsustainable conditions and low wages; at the same time, they publicly stressed the problem of an inactive union that had been involved with the leadership and the workers in monitoring and directing rather than representing them and exercising their rights. All these loops show that the current model of unionism survives; only the United Left believes in it. It is understandable that this party is, in fact, a political agency of some influential Slovenian trade unions, which clearly shows that they are not really involved in the involvement of workers in management; they are mainly involved in the political governance of the country. The labour issue is a serious problem arising from the development of work from antiquity to today. Political or ideological opinions on how to save him are different. In the grave, some, including the United Left, believe that this revolution is the right path; others, including Christian Democrats, consider it a social reform. The results of the various alternatives are now well known. The proposed novel shows, first of all, that applicants do not have practical experience in business. Inadequate electoral participation, neglect, apathy of workers can be tackled by further lowering the electoral threshold and lowering standards in other areas, but they do not eliminate the causes of the problems. Even by strengthening the role of trade unions, as we know them today, there can be no improvement in the way workers are involved in management; this is mainly the case in the proposed law. That is why Members of the New Slovenia – we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It’s not easy to be in the middle when they’re having quite the opposite of each other’s opinions. Today we are considering a fundamental law in the field of labour participation. The law in force was adopted, as we said, more than twenty years ago. Yes, we need a new law, but a law that will remedy the shortcomings that have proved in practice. We agree that there are certain questions about the functioning of the labour participation system, to which we need new answers, particularly in relation to the debate on the labour-capital relationship. The solutions that the applicant wants to introduce are extensive, but, as we have already said, they are not consistent with those who are also implementing the law, i.e. with employers. Under the existing law, the bill amends about two-thirds of the articles of the current law. We agree with those who point out that the participation of workers in management is not only a right but also a responsibility. We are talking about co-responsibility in the business of the company, responsibility for the satisfaction of employees, respect for legal standards and also recognition of errors. Responsibility is therefore mutual; employers must be able to cooperate in designing the matter under consideration today in terms of constructive solutions and not just automatic rejection of cooperation. We stress, however, that relations between business leaders and employees need to be established at a level that will allow for the implementation of the general law in good faith and in the best interests of both sides. The culture of dialogue and cooperation between management and employees in the company must be based elsewhere and not in tight new legal provisions. If that is not the case, then such a good and specific law will not be able to be fully enforced. We regret the fact that the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management was created in the same way as some other proposals for laws that should be harmonised in the Economic and Social Council and in the close cooperation of the social partners, especially employers, as in today's case, because this law introduces major changes in the field of labour management. The social partnership has its own tradition and meaning. He's not cocky and he's not on his own. First of all, it is a partnership, a partnership, and therefore we call on the social partners to approach a constructive dialogue to properly regulate the situation of workers' participation in governance that we are dealing with today. Since employers did not have the opportunity to participate in the process of forming this law, we will not support this law's modern centre in the Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you, too. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First of all, Mr Luka Mesec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Before we begin with the debate between Members and Members, I will briefly present the key changes that this law brings; and I will respond to the concerns expressed in the presentations on the views of the groups. The law before us, the Act on the participation of workers in management, is something like the management of the Company Act. The law, contrary to what we have heard, has not been prepared by hand, but we have prepared it, together with the Association of Workers' Councils, which has been preparing the law, in fact, a recast of the old 1993 law, since 2010 onwards. He was in Parliament for the first time in 2011, but then in the last nine, ten months, together with union centres, he said with all the working organizations in Slovenia, he was thoroughly renovated, he was prepared in some kind of manual to be used directly as a guide to how to manage companies. On the other hand, we have defined the old law at those points where it was subjugated that we have covered virtually all the holes that have proved to be in practice in the implementation of this law. In doing so, the law brings a number of new solutions that can be divided into three groups. The first is the extension of the right to co-management where it has been abolished in the last 25 years; the second is the increase in the role of the Council of Workers in decision-making while strengthening the responsibilities of workers' representatives to employees, to the collective. And third is the protection of workers' representatives from bullying and abuse by employers who have unfortunately been quite common in practice. If I go through these changes for a while. With regard to the extension of rights; first of all, we have dealt with the issue of the right to co-decision with agency workers and other enforcement workers in the company. The original solution was to give them the same rights as the regular employees enjoy; but later we decided to make a different solution, because penitentiaries are the most vulnerable and thus the most vulnerable to bullying by employers and the impact of the employer on their decision-making. On the other hand, many of these employees in companies are unfortunately illegal; through illegal labour agencies, which we have already discussed at this meeting. It is therefore now the solution to elect a representative of the company to accompany, without voting rights, the meetings of the Council of Workers. This is mainly about informing holiday workers about the situation and that they can, through their representative, mediate their problems facing them in the world of workers and beyond the structures of the company. However, collective rights to co-management are being extended in banks, companies, companies with single management and independent entrepreneurs. In these cases, co-management has been outlawed over the last 20 years, as management and the political class, with various legislative changes, have expelled governance from there. On our proposal, the law would also apply to banks and insurance companies. Other restrictions on epithelials and so on would also be removed. With regard to insurance companies and banks, I would like to point out here that this is an end to unconstitutionality, as the Constitutional Court has already made clear, with restrictions on co-management there, that this is an unconstitutional solution. By what we introduce, we eliminate existing unconstitutionality in the Slovenian legal system, which is such that employees are not allowed to co-manage in banks and insurance companies. The law extends the right to appoint a working director, who is now limited to companies with more than 500 employees. We lower this threshold to companies with more than 250 employees. This is mainly due to the fact that, unfortunately, companies with more than 500 employees in this country are declining. In particular, the number of micro, small and also, fortunately, medium-sized enterprises is growing. One of the most important changes, which does not formally extend rights, will in practice contribute to the fact that in Slovenia we will have more worlds of workers and more employees, says more economic democracy, is the reduction of the quorum for the election of the working world. In the current regime, one half of the employees must vote; we are lowering this to one third. Here, perhaps for comparison, I can give elections at the state level, where we can see that there is no quorum at all in the national elections, it is much smaller in the referendums. However, this existing quorum in economic democracy was particularly problematic in larger companies. Let's say it got complicated recently at the Post Office because of the high quorum; it also works dissuasively. Since it is such a high quorum, workers often do not even decide to form a working world. Here we lower the quorum from half to one-third, where the elections become valid. If I move to a second set of changes, this is to increase the responsibility of the workers' council and increase the responsibility of the members of the workers' council. Trust in co-management has mostly been wavering in practice when the Council of Workers has somehow become an extension of the term of management. Unfortunately, this was often the case, and the Association of Workers’ Worlds has also been named, creating a name for this phenomenon — that co-management has become an issue of management. In order to avoid this, we have expanded the list of management personnel who do not have the right to vote and to be elected to the working world or the supervisory council. On the other hand, we have simplified the recall of a member of the Council of Workers who does not work in the interests of employees. The recall will be valid if at least one third of the employees vote for it. Thereafter, employees must represent the interests of workers and must not become a labour aristocracy. That's why we've banned any ratings on the employer's part. The non-professional member of the Council of Workers has the right to a 10% remuneration in the company. However, a member of the Council of Workers is entitled to the same salary as he had in his old job before he was elected. However, when it comes to workers with under-average salaries, their wages are increased to the average wage in the company. With this solution, we enforce the principle that each job must be paid fairly, but money or compensation must not be the main motive for carrying out these functions. Then we move on; we are slightly changing the provisions concerning the Director of Labour. Currently, there are two mechanisms in law, which unfortunately are often subordinated to capital by the Labour Director. The first is that the Council of Workers of the Labour Director in the current regulation can only propose and is finally appointed by the Supervisory Board, which we know most capital representatives have in it. For someone to become a labour director on a proposal from the workers' council, he needs to get thirsty on the capital side. Thus, less than half a year ago, the Petrol Supervisory Council rejected the appointment of the candidate proposed by the employees there. Instead, of course, we are instituting a direct choice; that the Council of Workers appoints a Labour Director, but at the same time it can call it off. Another problem with workers’ directors is that they are mainly used for human resources directors, which means that those who are supposed to exercise the interests of workers are given the task that is most anti-working. It is said to be appointed director of redundancies and similar staff changes. This destroys his role and his credibility among the employees, so we have laid down a clause in the law that the Director should not have powers to exercise in the rights of work; nor should he represent the administration in collective negotiations. That makes sense because otherwise we'll get a brokerage shop. If I go to the last, third set of changes, this is the extension of the powers of the workers' council. The practice has shown that, unfortunately, workers cannot practically influence companies in privatisation processes. Under the old law, the management was obliged to convene a joint consultation at which employees would submit their demands to the taker; and if the management of this consultation did not organise it, a fine was threatened. But this has not been done in practice. Like in the case of Adrie Airways Tech, it didn't help. There, a group of workers organised an internal buy-in initiative, but were not finally aware of the take-over process, even though they had raised capital; not only did they offer even the highest bid to take over the company. The offer offered by the workers was higher than the Polish acquirer, but the management did not even inform them of the tenders. She simply excluded their offer and did not inform them of privatisation. For the prize, the new owner fired two workers, one of whom was even a member of the workers' council. This is the state of economic democracy that we have; and it is under a government that has even given itself economic democracy one of its priorities. Here I am once again reminding the coalition Members of these excesses and to use your own voice in the government, because we all see that this is happening. In order to avoid such cases, we have laid down in this Act higher penalties for management and companies which impede the right to co-decision. We have determined that the replacement of the owner will not be possible to enter the register without proof that an actual consultation with the staff has been carried out. Last change, protection of workers' representatives. We have made this law clear in order to increase the power of workers in the company against capital. However, those who work in the interests of employees can be very quickly targeted by bullying or sanctions by the management of the company. It has proved that, in practice, the security guards have not been sufficient so far, so we are proposing a provision that a member of the Council of Workers or a representative of employees in the Supervisory Council will not be forgiven at the time he carries out his mandate and one year thereafter. The Association of Employers of Slovenia has shown us to protect people who would steal from their company or sexually harass their employees. This is not true, of course, in such cases the Council of Workers would certainly agree to forgive such a person; of course, it would not give consent on the other hand when the grounds of termination are fabricated or where someone is sanctioned for representing the interests of workers. This is the last set of changes, of course I won't be able to list them all, because I am limited in time. Moreover, this is more or less a matter for a second reading, so I have now made only some review of the key changes. To conclude, I would also like to stress that the additional financial costs for companies created by this law are minor. But the point is, with all these changes, we're trying to operationalize the old law. The writing of the changes included all the working organisations in this country, not something the United Left would have invented; it was something that we had discussed with all the working organisations for more than nine months and then made our own circuits on the ground to select a specific feedback from the companies and the comments they gave us, they also took into account. It is a law that is harmonised, standing, which is a systemic one, which at the same time provides guidance for the exercise of co-ordination and at the same time masses most of the holes that have occurred in practice. I'd like to wrap this up. I will now briefly respond to the concerns expressed in the debate. First, colleague Anja Bah Žibert, who says that such arrangements as we propose here, do not know any developed economy. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Then it's European. That's not true. We're following the German model, as follows the original law. [[advertising from the hall]] This is done according to the German model, so this is not true, and it is essentially the paracelification of the old 1993 law, which tried to introduce in Slovenia a similar system of co-management as they know in Germany. Then you say we're proposing a law that goes beyond all established practices. Here I will answer once again, it is true that the law has not been dealt with on the Economic and Social Council, but not on our own account. For the first time, because the United Left Group is not a social partner and cannot take the law there. Secondly, this should have been done by the Government, as it did in the case of the Minimum Wages Act, although that case was more limited than that; there are unions, which are the social partners, who have given the initiative and the Government has carried it to the Economic and Social Council. Here we, as a qualified proposer, have proposed a law in the National Assembly, and we have every right to do so. If the government says it has to be coordinated in the Economic and Social Council, it should put it there. Here I will also point out that in this reference various opposition parties have proposed amendments to laws that are topical to the Economic and Social Council and have not been addressed there; however, there was no problem. Such laws are, say, the Labour Relations Act, the Pension Insurance Act, the Health Care Act, the Social Security Contributions Act, the Employees Participation Act. All of this is part of the ESF and has not been dealt with there. All of this has been proposed and discussed in this national assembly, and this has never been a problem. Now that some law proposed by the United Left becomes a problem in this sense, it is only a politically convenient tool to stop this law. I also asked Mr Pogačar, when he was at our meeting in the parliamentary group, if there was any case that an opposition parliamentary group that proposed the law went to coordinate this law on the Economic and Social Council, you replied that there was no such case. And there is a reason that we are Members of Parliament who are a qualified lawmaker, but we are not a social partner. We can talk about the laws here, but we can't talk about the laws there. But we don't have unlimited powers. I say no again. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar said they were skeptical of some of the articles of our marriage. Here I would ask my colleagues from Desus to make this concrete. My colleague Matjaž Hanu, who says that social democracy is the first to support economic democracy, would answer only that you have an excellent opportunity to show it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you, too. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First of all, Mrs. Iva Dimic has the word. Mr Saša Tabaković and Dr Matej T. Vatovec are next.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Once again, New Slovenia will not support such a law. I sat alone with the proponents, with my colleague Mesec, when we talked about the greater impact of workers in the management of businesses. I've experienced some of this myself in the economy. We didn't find the same point together. You know, there's something about talking from these chairmen about working rights, and there's something about being an employee. And I think what should be concrete for all of us sitting in this national assembly today is to say that we are not determined to exploit workers. Not all those who do not actually report people do not pay their contributions, to say the least. This should be a message this week and our discussions and meetings this week. Labour rights need to be acquired. Once again, I firmly say, "No, you don't have to pick them up!" Labour rights can be well aligned with the Economic and Social Council, even if I am looking at a micro-enterprise within the company. I have a very positive experience myself because we had a director who listened to the employees. I could say we were getting a winter break, then a Christmas break and everything. I'll tell you if there are real working representatives in the companies to do this. What's on our tables today, I understand as union law, so I'm surprised the unions didn't bring it themselves to the Economic and Social Council and discuss it. Why? Because today it has been said that unions have an increasing number of memberships and are getting less and less money. Of course, once you hear that, you know exactly what it is. It is about getting as many people as possible into the union and paying more and more membership fees; because membership is paid a percentage of the gross salary of each individual employee. It's not a five-euro membership. As much as an individual earns, he gets more. If he gets more pay, he gets more union than he does. That's right. And it's easy going this way to get things together. I must say, today's position of the United Left has been unique. It was said that "my parents' generation lived better than my generation." I believe and understand this in the sense that they have more to live on than their wages or that they have somehow made life easier. Yeah, but they didn't know certain things, they couldn't buy coffee, oil, banana, orange. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's what I felt. I still felt it. Please, you live near Maribor, Koroška, you can get coffee in Austria. I know what it was like. There were a few kilos of sugar per month per family, a few kilograms of powder per month per family. And everyone who talks, even the United Left, that's not true. Comrade Kordish, I know that you also visited Venezuela a good year and a half ago. The coincidence of what I'm reading on the website today will be the quote: "Venezuela in the deep crisis. People are looking for food in garbage, there's no medicine in hospitals, there's no testimonies, because there's no money to print." What do we want?Oh, my God! I think there is still a way to resolve dialogue and equal distribution of goods. Everyone deserves to live a decent life. That's my message. And that won't bring about any co-decision between the workers. And another thing is, there was a speech today in the Work Atonement Act. I have to touch that. How can a worker who receives EUR 400 for 40 years be involved in some purchase of the company. What if he doesn't have enough to live with?Oh, my God! It was Peck's case, and I can just write it down. And they were talking about working ransoms. Who's gonna buy the company?Oh, my God! A worker who worked for 40 years and got 400 euros?Oh, my God! This is again water on the mill to those who have put this company on the line and now, through the Labour Buyout Act, they would have bought back what could have been left healthy; because they have already saved some money in the past. The worker, who today receives 600 euros, has no practical savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor, followed by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec and Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Mr. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u142	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your word! We have before us a proposal for a law to remedy the shortcomings of the current law affecting the functioning of labour participation in the management of companies. Of course, at some principle level, I can always agree that we need to overwind sectoral legislation also in order to motivate employees to best treat their own work and to work towards the success of the whole company. It is completely the power to agree. But unfortunately, I must say that the United Left has jumped a little too quickly, as is the case when the issue comes up with broader labour legislation, and passed the law beyond the culture of social partnership and thus completely bypassed employers who are really the ones who will have to introduce the law if it were to be adopted. And when the United Left is talking about maneuvers, it might still be good to look at the history of its actions that touch on the issues of the ESS. I am thinking mainly about outside parliamentary activities. Since the proposer wants us to be a little more specific, I will express my concerns about at least three articles of the amendment. Article 48 of the amendment refers to internal responsibility where it is stressed that the request for withdrawal must state the reasons for each member individually; this means that only individual members may be recalled by established jurisprudence. And now I'm asking myself here, what does that mean that all the members would suddenly be called off, why can't they be or what does that mean by understanding the non-trust institute? That's not what the proposalr's answering. Furthermore, the applicant says that an offence which is not related to society cannot be a reason for revoking. We are not talking here about the employment contract, we are talking about the representative function of members of the workers' council. And then I wonder, what criteria do we then set for those who represent employees in the highest decision-making bodies in companies, why is there no exception to crimes?Oh, my God! This proposal does not state, but I wonder why not. I think it would be much more necessary than for a fellow Member to refer to the Members a treaty of Marxist ideology in his position or we could hear it in the position of the United Left. Article 54 of the paper speaks of covering the costs of the elections. Here again is the question of what costs. Or all the costs? Because according to the law in force, the employer must cover only the necessary and necessary costs for the technical execution of the elections. And of course, this is a completely different diction, as the proposalr imagines, which is very important. Personally, I do not think that in this way the transparency of the funds used is being dispersed, as perhaps this - surely well-intentioned - would the proposer want. However, it is particularly interesting to see Article 67 of the Act; Article 67 of the current law states that a member of the Council of Workers cannot be reduced or brought into action by disciplinary or indemnity proceedings, or otherwise placed in a less favourable or subordinate position if he acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment. The new law or the proposed article states; it has several paragraphs, particularly interesting: the Labour Representative cannot cancel contracts of employment during the duration and for another year after the completion of his duties without the prior consent of the Council of Workers, irrespective of the reasons for his refusal. Whatever the reasons for your resignation. If, on the one hand, the United Left speaks of capital elites, then I wonder what elites are created by such a dictatorship or by such amendment of the law. And in fact, this 67th article of the Law also represents some big conceptual difference between employers and the bill-maker, namely, on the one hand we have the opinion of employers, and I can agree with this or this doubt, which is understood by the article as the full immunity of employees' representatives, who are also protected in the event of serious abuse of employment obligations. On the other hand, we have the opinion of the proposer, who says that this paragraph only provides that the Council of Workers must be approved by the Council of Workers. Not to mention these media cregaries that are happening around sexual delinquency. I think that this kind of communication that happens in the media is just evidence or is typical of cases where there is not enough effort to bring the opinion together in a meaningful way. Perhaps it was because there really was no such interest. And that is true, in my opinion, also the fact that the social partners have certainly not reconciled themselves on this issue. Since I personally believe in the tradition of social dialogue, which exists with a view to doing so, I can only support those solutions that will be substantively coordinated in this respect. Without cooperation, it just doesn't work. I believe that, given the other solutions that appear in the proposal, they are certainly interesting. However, it is important to stress, in general, that the proposal for the amendment gives employees much more competence; at the same time, the proposal does not extend the field of responsibility itself. Personally, I think that's certainly a problem. Once the bill is prepared in cooperation with the social partners, I will support it, whether the opposition submits it or the coalition submits it. Unfortunately, not until then, because I don't think it's right for the Economic and Social Council to go around every time it breathes a little bit on the political agenda. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word, to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and Mr. Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Dr. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you, Vice President. We have to take codecision in some way as an integral part of human rights. No democracy that ends at the company's doorstep can be worthy of this title. It's not a democracy. And co-management is, in some ways, extremely important for the quality of working life. I can argue that probably no manager would allow a mobile company to operate in his company or in a company run by him if he had a well-functioning workers' council in which the workers' council could represent workers in the exercise of its individual participation rights. And that is exactly what we are trying to achieve with this proposal, nothing else. We do not increase the costs for businesses, we do not increase the ratings for workers' representatives; we only create conditions for us to work in the interests of workers. Why? Not only because of all that has already been said on our part today, but because in its own way — and perhaps this will sound a little strange from my mouth — will in some way also bring some benefit to the other side, to that employer’s side; I am talking about increasing productivity. The management and capital organisations of this proposal are, of course, opposed because they do not want to respond to the employees, because the situation as it is is is appropriate for them when workers in many companies do not have representation or if the holy workers are only extensions of management. This is a current picture which, of course, is more than appropriate for many companies. However, from these arguments that we have presented, employers themselves should, in some way, look at co-management from another point of view, from a key point of view of productivity. Co-ordination can have a significant impact and contribute to increasing the productivity of individual companies and, consequently, the economy as a whole. Under certain conditions, increasing productivity can benefit management and workers and, most importantly, all other residents. Conditions are strong unions, and it is necessary to insist that capital can be forced into higher wages rather than higher dividends. One of the mechanisms is the compulsory participation of workers in profits that we do not yet have. What we have, however, was the Ministry of Finance's desire to replace it with a system of management awards. On the other hand, only organised workers may be those who prevent management from making use of participation to increase the intensity of work. The third condition is the political authorities, which must ensure that increased revenues are reflected also in higher public revenues. This is the only way to improve social protection, healthcare, education and so on. These are essential goods that would be significantly more expensive for workers if they were to be paid with, say, commercial insurance or even in their own pocket. And this is what we are saying today when we have 400,000 people in this country living below the risk of poverty and social exclusion, so that these goods are quickly inaccessible. Let me focus on what I have predicted, why co-management also has benefits for management or for businesses as such. Improving the co-management system can contribute to greater productivity, and this is demonstrated by a number of studies or studies. I'll mention three international and one domestic. The first is Gallup’s research — perhaps not to explain the institution’s commitment to employees. This survey covered 25 million respondents in 189 countries worldwide in 20 years. This study divides workers into three groups. The first group is taken, then the group is unoccupied, and the third group is actively unoccupied. Unrestrained do work in some way along the line of least resistance, as they say. They are also actively dissatisfactioning the collective. The survey showed that nearly two thirds of the workers were unoccupied and a poor quarter were actively unoccupied. Researchers have also calculated the losses of individual national economies due to this lack of commitment from these data. When we look at them, the numbers are huge. The United States loses between 450 and 550 billion dollars a year. United Kingdom between $83 billion and $186 billion a year. It's extremely high numbers. According to researchers, the main reason for the lack of commitment is inadequate management of employees. They confirmed that participative leadership increases employees' commitment. They are more satisfied than they think they are to contribute to the management of the company, and as a result, productivity between the collectives is increasing. This research is not merely limited to formal co-ordination, but it is clear that co-management is precisely the mechanism that is effective for participatory governance that increases this productivity. Furthermore, the EPOC European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions survey covered 10 European countries in 2005. They studied the link between direct participation and economic performance. Direct participation mainly refers to individual rights of participation, i.e. that workers co-decision on the organisation of the work process and at their place of work and in their establishment. The study showed that direct participation has a strong impact on economic performance. The more the workers were informed and the more the management consulted with them, the greater the economic impact of this participation. And the level of participation not only affected performance directly but also indirectly. Almost a third of respondents indicated that there had been less illness among workers due to the introduction of participation and that there had been a decrease in the number of delays. In short, greater involvement of workers in the management of the company also in some way means greater satisfaction. This is a message from these studies. The third international study, Witl's 2005 study on co-decision and economic efficiency in Europe, is also important because it examines the link between the performance of economies as well as the functioning of working authorities. This wasn't a company survey unit, it was a country like that. This study has shown that countries with highly developed working participation at the level of corporate authorities are almost more successful in all economic indicators than others. They had significantly better results in employment, surpluses in external trade, in the balance of payments. They had higher productivity per unit of labour, a lower level of inequality and even business competitiveness were better classified. The only indicator for countries with less participation was faster GDP growth. However, here it must be borne in mind that countries with fewer participations also had a lower starting point. This is the result that there is a strong link between economic development and co-management. On the one hand, this is due to the development of co-management in the developed countries, from Germany to Scandinavia, which means that it is a kind of civilizational achievement. Co-ordination is something, as has already been said, some mechanism that needed to be assembled. We know it's something that runs on long arms. On the other hand, participation must also have a retroactive effect on the functioning of businesses. A similar correlation was shown by the European Participation Index. In countries with stronger participation, there is less poverty or exclusion, higher levels of education, the economy is more energy efficient, less pollution of the environment and so on. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the findings of the study by Rajko Bakovnik and his colleagues, which was published in 2000 on the sample of 53 Slovenian companies. It's the only kind of research we have, so I'm mentioning it. However, I would point out two findings from this study. The first is that the quality of working life was strongly linked to participation; and greater information and codecision had a positive impact on satisfaction at work. In particular, the final conclusion is important: the more the employees were satisfied with the level of participation in their company, the more the business was successful. What, then, is the political message of these scientific research in some way? On the one hand, co-decision contributes significantly to business performance; not only in an individual company, but at the company level in general. People work harder when they know why they work; and even when they can decide how they will work themselves; in short, when they know that they are actually working for themselves, for their families and for their collective. We can conclude from this why management and capital owners have no interest in developing co-management. It is not only a question of prestige or privileges, but it is a question of participation increasing the company's income, but on one condition. And this condition is that employees also benefit from this increase in income. And this benefit can take the form of higher wages, participation in profits or a common standard. Of course, a classical capitalist enterprise has no intention of increasing the whole income, but merely a surplus over the costs, i.e. profit. And that's probably why there's probably such a strong resistance on the part of representatives of companies or employers. In short, from the point of view of the classic capitalist company, workers' salaries and expenses are incurred. The lower the cost, the higher the profits, which belong to owners and partly to management. Companies are increasingly following short-term effects, and they are developing co-management in an irrational way; in terms of the economy and society as a whole, such entrepreneurship is irrational because it is a long-term loss of the company's human resources and development potential, which is also evidenced by the studies I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of course, working management is important, so we have also had a labour management law for 20 years; but welcome to capitalism. This is not my choice now, which I would very much like to have; but this is the system we have. For example, no system can last forever, and in 100 or 200 years, another system will prevail, where values and wealth will be more evenly distributed, or whatever anyone wants. We do not have liberal capitalism in Slovenia, we do not want to have it, we are a social state, we have a law on the participation of workers in management; but your proposal, dear colleagues from the United Left, assumes that there are no employers. However, employers provide jobs without employers, we will agree on that. So without dialogue with key stakeholders – employers are not going. Use the argument quite often – but not explicitly now – when you are proposing laws through your system: because employers will not agree because it is not in their interest. They may not agree, they may have different proposals, but we have not given them a chance. In the procedure proposed, as you have suggested, employers had no choice. Five employers' associations turned to the National Assembly to oppose this law because they did not have the opportunity to participate in the process of adopting this law: Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, Association of Employers of Slovenia, Association of Employers of Crafts and Entrepreneurs of Slovenia, Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. This is not how it works, my dear colleagues, it is not possible for you to set an ultimatum: here you now have one marriage, accept it; we stand for the rights of workers, and if you do not do so now you are against it. We are not against content, but we must all have the opportunity to speak out on this content. Most importantly, employers have the opportunity to make their views known to those who are key stakeholders in this work process. I very much liked the comment and the thought of colleague Dimic – why didn't you give the unions to go to the Economic and Social Council with this law and they are partners there. It does not work that way; compare the situation between this law and the law concerning the increase in minimum wages. No, that's when 5,000 voters proposed to change this law, it was one article or two, I don't remember well, you'll fix me if it's not true. However, this law on the participation of workers in management is a major change that you are proposing. We can't rule out employers here. We can't. I really don't think it goes that way to set the ultimatum Take or leave; and that's it. Of course, this ultimatum is unacceptable to us, it is personally unacceptable to me, and we cannot make such a pattern again just because such an ultimatum is offered to us, we will also accept such a solution. We will discuss amendments to the Labour Management Act once in the future, changes are certainly necessary; but this is not the way to do it, not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you for saying that again. Now I want to answer this. If anything, this proposal we made wasn't final. There's a reason we've been coordinating him for nine months. We had it ready in March 2015, then we coordinated, coordinated and coordinated it. In February, only Desus and NSI accepted us, but the others did not. You too, the Modern Center Party, have repeatedly knocked on our sleeves when we can meet; but you were not ready to talk. We took him to the government, first to the group for economic democracy led by Tadej Slapnik, this law welcomed, said it was a good foundation. Then we carried him through all the ministries whose powers touch this law. We were accepted by the Ministry of Finance, we spoke with Mr Draganjo there; we were accepted by the Ministry of Economy, Minister of the Economy personally; we were accepted by the Ministry of Justice, Mr Klemenčič; on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, we spoke with Mr Pogačar. Nor is it true that there was no such law on the ESF or that the social partners did not have it. The government received it in March, the employers received it at the end of March, the unions had it all the time or the ESS was the original version last year, and this year the unions took it there, but it did not happen because the first time the government said it couldn't come; the second time the employers said they couldn't come. So it is not our fault that there was no social dialogue, nor is it the union's fault; it is the fault of those who sabotaged this dialogue. Here I once again protest against these eyes – you did not harmonise them. We've been coordinating it for nine months, but if you're closing our doors, we can't coordinate it, that's the key problem. If we say to the Modern Center Party once, say – no, we can't; but say another time, but say, we can't; then we can't come after five months of begging for this meeting and you tell us – ultimate postupposts. No, we are not the ones who are doing the ultimate thing, the ones who are closing the door to talk. Here it is not, as I point out again, for any accumulation of political points, this law is still medially completely uninteresting, we went to the minimum to operationalize the old law and to correct those mistakes that have proved to be the most pertinent, that economic democracy has not been able to develop normally in Slovenia. In 1993, the German model wanted to be translated, but failed, we tried to fix it, that's all. You didn't talk to me, and in the end, we had no choice but to try to go to the meeting. We got 21 signatures. It's not just a proposal from the United Left. Secondly, I would answer my colleague Tabakovic's concerns; with regard to Article 48, he is not now. [[…]] Maybe I'll call you later when he gets back to the gym. Then I'll answer when the critics are back in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Pogacar has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me that some thoughts need to be highlighted in the course of this debate. On behalf of the proposer, honourable Member Luka Mesec said that the government had sabotaged the meeting of the Economic and Social Council. That's not true. On purpose, I went back to the calendar to look, for the first time by the trade unions, by Mr Semilic at the end of May at the ESS meeting, the proposal was put forward to include and consider the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management, which they had previously – you were granted the authorship of the law, we must say – union centres have aligned with the Joint Left Group. That was the end of May. Neither the social partners nor the employers nor the government opposed the consideration of this law in the Economic and Social Council; on the contrary, we welcomed it. We are of immediate priority, although a number of laws are currently awaiting consideration in the Economic and Social Council, we have said as a priority that the law is already included in the parliamentary procedure to be considered. I apologized in advance that I am not exactly in Slovenia on 10 June because I was at an international work conference on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And it was moved to this day, where it was presented. That's not how Oda feels about anyone sabotaging. Mr Mesec has repeatedly stressed today, and this is seen as a achievement that he has fully aligned himself with all seven trade unions. Congratulations, that's an achievement. But he is another social partner; and these are employers. Why did you not try to comply with employers’ organisations in this preliminary procedure, as you did with trade unions? I'll tell you why. Because it's hard. Social dialogue is difficult, but it is possible and constructive. It is not just about interesting issues, but also about substantive, professional issues, which always turn out to be better at the end of social dialogue. There is no doubt, I know the information that the honourable Member Dr Vatovac mentioned, Eurofound research, OECD. All of this suggests that countries where they have stable jobs, where they have participation in management, record higher levels of employment, record higher productivity; there is no doubt about that. And I think that there was no one in this national assembly today among the debaters who would not say that the participation of workers in management is useful, that it is important and that it is also beneficial for the whole society in general. You yourself mentioned that it is useful for employers as well. Absolutely, and if that's true, they won't have any trouble convincing them. But what kind of employee participation in management? And if you don't tell me again that I'm just dealing with procedures, I'd also say something about the content. I know both the authors of this marriage, Dr. Gostišo and Mr. Bakovnik, for a number of years, probably longer than you. And I also greatly appreciate both of them and their efforts to work together, extremely. But let us not forget, this law also imposes obligations on employers, especially employers. It is true that one day all of them will benefit from it together; but it would not be fair for them to be given the opportunity to plead. As soon as this bill has been tabled by your parliamentary group, the government has received a letter from all the employers' organisations to oppose the adoption of this law until it has been properly addressed among the social partners and will have the opportunity to cooperate constructively. Maybe a little bit of content, if I'm allowed. You're saying the Workers' Cooperation Act is a labour constitution. No, the Labour Constitution is the Labour Relations Act. The Labour Relations Act of 112 and 113 provides for the protection of trade unions and the protection of workers' representatives, i.e. the labour councils. This law has been a painful – 230 hours of negotiations, and I have participated in them myself – coordinated between the social partners until the last article. You now have a quick interest in this law, but only for the representatives of the workers; not for unionists. They should have their own opinion in the Labour Relations Act. These are the solutions that then improve in social dialogue. No one is opposed, nor is the Government's opinion going in the direction that labour co-ordination, that participation of workers in management is not important. Certainly, we all agree that the content of the law is also an integral reform of the current law, which has already been somewhat outdated in some segments; but the law in force is fully in line with all the international instruments that bind the Republic of Slovenia, so there is no need for speed and haste here. We have time to harmonise, and we also have time to deal with the social partners. Maybe this one too. The bill does not say anything about the involvement of workers in public sector governance. Or public servants are not workers who deserve to have — we have public institutions, homes for pensioners — a word in order to guide them. It's a flaw in the law for my taste. The posted workers to the employer are said to be posted, not to be employed there, only temporarily through the intervention agency, have the right to elect representatives to the co-management bodies. I don't know, they don't belong to the company, I don't know, I don't go down here wondering if it's right to be posted, if it would be right to be employed by the user himself. But here you're given some electoral rights to the governing bodies. Such things also need to be considered in a professional way. I, in the proposal of this law, do not simply miss the dialogue between the various stakeholders in the context of the content itself, where only interesting questions are raised. It is also a matter of substantive issues which, with full respect for the drafters of this law, must also be debated in a public debate. This is a major move that does not go, not at all, in the wrong direction, by no means; but it is necessary to define itself. I am sure that in the dialogue of the social partners – well, I am not quite sure that agreement can be found, the question – and certainly this attempt must be given an opportunity and coordination must be made. The question is whether consensus can be found at all points. However, coordination is needed. Let's not forget, social dialogue is a value, it's a fragile value in a society that we can destroy very quickly. Let's see if that's really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Once again, hello to all of you, who aren't quite enough! If I counted correctly, now that the European football championship is in place, we would hardly be able to put together a football team if all the Members sitting here decided to play. A little joke on the side. I think that this law is in some way an improvement and also a rhetorical fellow Kordiš, which explains the substantive elements and the reasons for the adoption of such a law. Why do you want to do a little baking? Inventory under the Income Act and the Cadastrian Income Act, where there were nudity figures and one criticism itself. Here we all agree that something must be done on the rights of employees, the rights of workers. I would expect such a law, which speaks for the benefit of the workers, to prepare the ministry for better, more efficient work management. It wasn't like that. That's what the United Left decided. We listened to you when you came to present the contents of this law, the starting point, and we told you that we saw the law as necessary, since it is more than twenty years old. That it is not unconstitutional, this is encouraging; that it is already a little viable is a fact and that it must be modified in every way. We said that at the time, and I can confirm this today that in this law I see a whole bunch of positive guidelines, a positive valence of the law as a whole; but it is true that here I find that perhaps it is necessary to go on such important matters perhaps just a little more evolutionaryally. There are many rights, there are many additional rights, some perhaps disproportionate in terms of justice – responsibility; and perhaps one step at a time. I believe or rather I wish that my thinking could go in this direction too, that all those Members who do not listen to this today are obviously convinced and will confirm this law at this stage and will go in the next; we, who are a little skeptical, are still listening to the motioner's thoughts and arguments why such a law is. And I am leaning increasingly towards taking it into the next phase, and indeed, with some things we are going gradually, not in such a large amount of rights. Mr Pogačar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, also said that some, thank God, some rights are in the Labour Constitution or in the U.S.R., the Bible, as anyone wants to name this law, the most important in terms of workers' rights. However, there is no harm if any other matter is further defined in terms of greater involvement of workers in companies. Not only in the economy, but also in the public sector, in the public sector, in the broadest sense of the word. And there will certainly be an opportunity – if there is, I believe there will be – for the marriage to come at this stage, to settle certain matters as we think is right, as we think is real, to be able to settle them in space and time. I believe it will be an opportunity. I'm here for a dialogue, so we can understand each other. I was also somewhat disturbed by this argument that the matter was not presented to the ESS. It'd be nice to have her introduced there. It's not like we're pretending to be employers and the unions agree on it. I have been on the ESS several times and my colleague Pogačar is still there on Friday, but it is not the greatest pleasure there to listen to peripetions from both sides and to be somewhere in the middle as a representative of the government. Many times the ESS just gets to know each other, takes note of a particular matter. I am very glad that we have adopted the Minimum Wage Act, a small stone in the mosaic of greater rights and a better material position for employees is this. I'm glad we accepted it, and it wasn't harmonised there, and it came through not to say any doors to Parliament, and we accepted it. I believe that at this stage of the adoption of this law, something else can be said in the Economic and Social Council, at least to get to know it, because it is probably an illusion to reach agreement there in such or other forms. Why is this marriage necessary? As I have already said, I will not say that the rights of workers are miserable, then I would put into nothing all the efforts that this country makes or devotes to employees; but the rights of employees and their emancipatory roles in terms of governance, including co-management, if you want, are never too much. Just as there is never too much concern for pensioners, for children and for those target groups that are most vulnerable. It is true, however, that sometimes it is necessary to be aware that in a given space and time, as well as in the political constellation of power in the National Assembly, some things need to be made slightly worse, perhaps gradually some rights in terms of protecting the rights of employees in this law. Then I believe he can see the light of the world at the end. Why do I still see that this marriage is necessary and important? Because he's referring to some higher level of economic democracy. This has already been said in previous discussions. It also affects a higher level of social responsibility, including more efficient and responsible corporate governance, whatever that means; it is not for someone to "snake" a company to remain unpunished. I am confident that it will contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of our Slovenian economy. And if it is "adopted" by employers on the one hand and employees on the other hand and they realize that it is in everyone's interest, I see no reason for failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. In today's debate, we were able to hear directly or indirectly from several sides the following ideas that employers create jobs or jobs and that there are no workers without employers. Colleagues, fellow Members, I inform you that workers without employers are on their way to socialism and employers without workers are on their way to bankruptcy. That's the only truth in your words. We are talking about social dialogue. What has this social dialogue brought us in the last 25 years? Our generation is the first generation after World War II, which promises to live worse than its parents. We got unemployment, we got holiday jobs, we got poverty that we didn't know before. Through social dialogue, our working hours are increasing, pensions are falling — these are the great achievements of our social dialogue. On the other hand, let's look at the class fight. What did the class fight bring us? He brought us a minimum raise under the Pahor government, brought us a redefinition of the minimum wage in this mandate if I do not mention the mass mobilisations from that general strike at the beginning of the 90s until mobilisation against the single tax rate. And once again, the United Left is not a party to social dialogue, but the United Left is an anti-capitalist party. Part of our agenda is also to end despotism in the workplace, working management in this agenda [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, where the word first comes from the Government and then from the proposer. Mr Peter Pogacar, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, thank you for this debate. Maybe she's a little premature, maybe this bill really saw the parliamentary procedure too quickly. Let me certainly repeat what I have said on behalf of the Government many times today - there is no doubt that the participation of workers in managing an important element of democracy, economic democracy, if you want. It is precisely because it interferes with the relationship between the worker and the employer, between the group of workers and one employer within the company that it is so important that both stakeholders have the right to define and coordinate the law as a whole of the country. This does not mean, however, that if there is no 100 percent consensus, the government will oppose it. We just have to give it a chance. The United Left Group said that social dialogue is not useful; I believe it is. It is one of the fundamental values of the International Labour Organisation, one of the fundamental values of the European Union as well, I have already said this in the introduction today. On the European Union's agenda in the future, a new momentum for social dialogue is emerging. This is not just about interesting issues, it is also about professional and substantive issues that need to be discussed. I have listed some of them today in the debate, and as a representative of the Ministry of Labour, I have quite a few problems with individual solutions. Therefore, my suggestion is that the law is not supported at this stage of consideration. The law is dealt with in accordance with the rules of the Economic and Social Council within the Economic and Social Council; where it is located. On the basis of any other solutions reached there, however, the law can always be reintroduced into the legislative process. Once again, individual solutions are appropriate, but there is no need for haste. Despite some of its shortcomings, the law in force is fully in line with international documents, with European Union standards and also with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Interfering with this law into laws, which were previously fully coordinated between the social partners without even trying to coordinate, is certainly not the right way. Once again, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose that members of the law do not support this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Mesec, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, one last time. I will only stress once again that it is not our fault that this law has not been dealt with on the Economic and Social Council. Once there was no government, the second time there were no employers. If you're asking why we didn't get along with the employers ourselves; not because it would be difficult, we sent them this law, but we didn't get back a comment, a proposal, a request for a meeting or anything like that. We just got back a pamphlet where they operated more or less on the imaginary problems of this law, which they then published in the media; and we answered that. But there was no interest in trying to talk about this marriage at all. Unfortunately, employers obviously deviate not only formally from social dialogue, but also in a direct sense. Because they saw that it was a law that was primarily prepared by the working party — the United Left prepared it in cooperation with the saints of workers and trade unions — they simply took advantage of all procedural options. The same way the government did it, so there wasn't any harmonisation. Here again, I stress, we have been at five ministries, we have been asking for four months to meet with the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. If we can't document this law, it's that we haven't tried to harmonise it. We've done the most constructive of things, and we've tried to coordinate it with everyone. But since we had our doors closed, we didn't break in and we didn't, that's true. [[…]] If I respond briefly to my colleague Tabakovic about these articles of the law. This would be for a second reading, but I would only briefly answer about these dilemmas that have been expressed. With regard to Article 48, when you ask why there is no collective non-disclosure and why it is necessary to recall each member individually. This is not new, because even in the current regime there is no collective recall, but they are individual. It can also call the whole, but it is a vote for each member individually. We don't change that, and that's what's left. With regard to Article 54, if the employer has to pay all the costs of the election, what are these costs. Here we have written that administrative and technical support should be provided to carry out the elections and to cover the costs. If the problem is that this is under-defined, it can be amended in the second reading and that the eligible costs or similar phrase are not a problem. In what way can members of the workers’ councils be forgiven? It has already been considered that the Council of Workers must give its consent if the Labour Representative is to be forgiven, but this has only been the case in the current regime for extraordinary cancellations. As a result of many cases of bullying by working representatives, we are extending this to all resignations, and we are also spreading that once the working representative has a term of office, it is not possible to forgive him for another year without the Council of Workers agreeing to do so. Why did we not limit the range of opportunities or reasons for forgiveness? The reason is simple because it is not difficult to fabricate a reason for the dismissal of an employee. The employer just made something up. And we have allowed here the discretion of the world of workers to prevent the maximum abuse of bullying. However, with regard to the creation of labour aristocracy, I would say that our marriage is going in the opposite direction, because we are facilitating the possibility of recalling a working representative from the workers' world, and we are making it very impossible for these cases, which we have now seen, on behalf of a world of workers who have not even been known, to sit in a supervisory world for twenty years or more. Such cases have been, and this is exactly what we are correcting in a way that calls off such people or calls off people who are not working in the interest of the collective. That's it. I might just say that for the end, because the government does not support this law, I expect it to fall, which saddens me, because we have once again stressed, prepared or coordinated this law for more than nine months. We knocked everywhere, at the doors of the parliamentary groups, at the doors of the ministries, after all, the unions also tried on the Economic and Social Council; but there was no coordination. Nevertheless, we have collected 21 signatures of the support of Members and Members for the first reading, which is unlikely to be enough to go to the second; I call on you to support this. Economic democracy is a principle that we not only advocate in the United Left, but you have also written it in your coalition contract. And it would be nice for you to at least show on one occasion that this is your business. What we have seen so far by the government and the coalition is, unfortunately, quite the opposite, in this mandate, the conditions for working representatives in the supervisory boards of insurance companies have been tightened, the ban on working co-ordination in banks is maintained, and you have rejected the SDH amendment, which would allow workers to have their representatives in the SDH supervisory board. There were scandals, as was the case with Adria Airways Technika, which I mentioned earlier, that workers were trying to organize a labor ransom, and the administration prevented it; and this was in a company owned by SDH. No SDH no government mediated anything. These are all examples where it shows that unfortunately for this government and for this coalition economic democracy remains only in the language. On Tuesday, however, you still have the opportunity to reconsider and to come to a second reading of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, where we can discuss in concrete terms the articles of this Act and the concrete solutions that we consider acceptable because we went to a minimum to enable the development of economic democracy, which is essentially this [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded this part of the debate. We've got some time left. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I would like to add the following to the set of arguments from the debate: human, human, humanistic. Labour management or, say, for starters, co-management is a humanistic project. Man in one, let's say, regime of still rigid jobs – of course today is even worse – 40 years, 5 days a week, 8 hours a day goes to a job and there is no right to cooperate. He has no right to decide or decide on his working environment, his work activities. But if anything defines a person as a being, it's just the fact that he feels freedom only through the right to make decisions. Freedom could be equated with the right to decide or codecision. A man who cannot co-create and co-decision on the conditions of his work is an unfree man. We are very often referring to democracy in this Parliamentary Chamber, but the sad truth of our strong democracy is, as has been said from Marxist history, the history of working battles, that the problem of civil society is that democracy ends at the factory door. We could also extend this to the company's understanding that democracy should be completed at the company's door. That's something we can't land on in the United Left. We advocate the introduction of democratic mechanisms within the company. In a broader picture, we see and want opportunities to go beyond the market economy, to replace this market economy with the next level of democracy; this is through democratic coordination of the economy. We could start this transformation in Slovenia today with support, by adopting our law on the participation of workers in governance; perhaps later, we could continue with the idea of full-time business management; not just co-management; and then very close to us, to overcoming capitalism and to move to a much more equitable, democratic, egalitarian and creative society. In the United Left, we call this society socialism. And it grieves me, as it appears, that this proposal will not receive the support of a sufficient number of Members in a few days' time in the vote. I simply cannot accept the treatment of work, the labour force, the human being as a commodity. By not being able to decide how the employee will spend his working capacity, how his company's working capacity will be used, it means that all decision-making power is concentrated in the hands of the manager; let's say a bureaucratic caste of individual companies. And this narrow caste in companies literally reigns, unrelentingly reigns over a crowd and a crowd of workers in different working regimes. Unfortunately, there are more and more reprehensible forms of employment, we have many unemployed and so on. This dictatorship, which begins on the inside of the company, is something we must overcome. Once again, I will call on you, without any great hope of helping us to overcome this by supporting our proposal for a law on the participation of workers in governance; in a few years, we will really see a stronger economy, a better society, a more just working environment and, of course, democracy for everyone and everywhere, which belongs to the normal 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-17-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the draft law is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 21 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 6. In the context of the votes. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. I also adjourn the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday, 21 June, at 9 a.m. Have a nice weekend!
