ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Erika Dekleva, Janja Sluga until 3 p.m., Anita Koleša until 3 p.m., Iva Dimik from 12.30 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Kamal Izidor Shaker, Jan Škoberne until 4 p.m., Marijan Pojbič, Marjan Dolinšek between 11.30 and 13.30, Ivan Škodnik until 12 p.m. and mag. Matthew Tonin. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Social Security, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u2	Good morning! Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act contains three sets of amendments. The first set of amendments is to provide a legal basis for drawing on European funds for the implementation of a pilot social activation project aimed at the development and placement of social activation in the social protection system and is closely linked in its core to the planned reorganisation of social work centres. The legal basis for pre-testing the organisation of activities or individual social protection services for the implementation of the above mentioned pilot projects is also introduced. The second set of amendments concerns the regulation of the status of individual types of social security programmes, the determination of their duration and the way in which they are co-financed. Here we would like to stress that we are not introducing new obligations for the country or the municipalities by means of a change, but we are simply clarifying the co-financing of programmes already implemented from the budgets of the countries and municipalities. The amendment of the law sets out the scope of the duration of social security programmes, the way in which they are financed, the sources of funding, and a more precise co-financing process through public tendering. However, the third set of amendments introduced by the proposal is a different arrangement of traineeships. By means of a proposal for a law, we are abolishing compulsory social protection traineeship, which has so far been a prerequisite for accession to the application of a professional examination. Following a new proposal for a law, individuals can approach the social security professional examination when they have 6 or 9 months of working experience in the field of social protection. 6 months of work experience is envisaged for all graduates of higher or higher education in the field of social work, since at the Ministry we estimate that the students of the Faculty of Social Work themselves have gained a certain amount and a sufficient amount of work experience in the field of social protection during their studies according to their study programme. The Ministry will also set up a working group in which representatives of the Social Chamber of Slovenia, professions and young people will be able to identify together the work experience of those who are recognised. Let me mention some of the other minor changes that are in this bill. One is the decommissioning of administrative procedures, i.e. the removal of certain administrative barriers relating to individual consents, to deadlines and the like. We are therefore talking about procedures that have so far burdened both indirect budgetary users, namely centres for social work, labour centres and others and the Ministry, while not contributing to better quality of operations and operations. The proposal also introduces the conditions for the award of the status of societies in the public interest in a way that, in addition to societies, other legal persons who do not earn profits, i.e. non-profit legal persons such as institutions, institutions, private institutions, institutions, and private institutions, will be able to obtain a new status in the public interest. This amendment of the law also aligns the Social Protection Act with the Labour Inspection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, Minister! The Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities shall meet at its session 4. On 5th this year, the proposal for a law on social protection was addressed as the working body of the mother. Following a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly, the law was examined following a reduced procedure. We have invited the widest interested professional, including the public and representatives of the Government, to the work of the Committee. The Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons has also previously considered the amendment of the law and has written in its report to support all proposed solutions. The Committee itself said that the proposal for a law introduced a legal basis for drawing on European funds for the implementation of a pilot project aimed at the development and placement of social activation services in the social protection system. The proposal also regulates the status of individual types of social protection programmes and provides the appropriate basis for their funding, abolishes traineeships as a mandatory condition for access to a professional examination and shortens the period of implementation. It also removes some unnecessary administrative obstacles. As it is said, a very broad professional and, among other things, an interested public participated in the debate. All the debaters agreed with the amendments tabled, but some felt that they were too large. To point out here that the representative of the Social Chamber said that the Social Chamber of Slovenia supported the proposal of the law and also actively participated in its creation, and its substantive comments were also taken into account. The Centre of NGOs of Slovenia also supports changes affecting social protection programmes. The Slovenian Student Organisation and the Youth Union, plus the proposal for a law, also point out that, apart from the analysis of traineeships in the Republic of Slovenia last June in the field of traineeships, no further in-depth analysis has been carried out, which is expected in the future. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also adopted any proposed amendments which relate or respond to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, which reviewed the law within its competence and made comments thereon. At the conclusion, we also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Your Honor! When the Government presented the amendment to the Social Protection Act for consideration, we expected answers to the important open questions in this area. However, at the time of reading the introductory explanations, we were particularly disappointed during the treatment on the parent’s working body. The government with the amendment of the law, as it says, makes only the most urgent changes. Other questions that should certainly be answered have remained open. While we support the proposed amendments in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe that this time the bill is truly inappropriate for further consideration, because the Government has completely neglected the opportunity to regulate some important areas because of the complexity and long-term coordination process. Sad to say, the government boasts that it has made changes that do not require much time. Perhaps because she is not willing to take the time, for example, to engage in a dialogue with municipalities that, since the establishment of averages, warn that the system of meeting the obligations of the municipalities will become financially unsustainable in the long term. The Association of municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of Slovene municipalities have pointed out that this amendment of the law should take a number of years to raise the amounts of current transfers for the institutional protection of adults, as irregularities affect the financial functioning of municipalities. The government has committed itself, together with setting averages, to address some open issues regarding current transfers. Unfortunately, there appears to be another opportunity to resolve at least one open question from this area. In addition, we would also like to draw attention to the abolition of compulsory social protection traineeships. Of course, we are also of the opinion that it is necessary to find the right solution for traineeships or to enable young people to enter the labour market, but we believe that the mere abolition of traineeships does not respond to the needs of young people and that more appropriate and comprehensive solutions should be found in dialogue with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u8	Dear President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Social Protection, which we are considering today, brings important solutions to the development of social security programmes, traineeships, the acquisition of public interest status in the field of social protection and inspection, which align the rules on inspection with the law governing inspection and inspection of work. The area of social protection requires urgent changes. The law in force is old. It was adopted in 1992. In the last 20 years, however, there has been a major development of the area to which we must follow. The bill also provides a legal basis for drawing on European funds for the implementation of a pilot project aimed at the development and placement of social protection services, which will be pilotly co-financed by the European funds of the new operational programme for the implementation of European cohesion policy. In the case of social activation, it is important to address people in an integrated manner, to deal with people who are exposed to social exclusion and, for various reasons, to the risk of poverty, to face social pressures, to be excluded from the labour market and to be long-term recipients of social assistance. These are different groups of individuals facing various obstacles due to alcoholism, illicit drugs, violence, mental health problems and the like, which make it difficult for them to reintegrate into society. In doing so, it is important to establish an interdisciplinary approach that will be adapted to individual groups in need of assistance and that different existing programmes also be linked. Today, the main part of the implementation of various forms of professional assistance in the field of social protection has been brought to the private sector. In this way, most of this aid is provided by NGOs, which often take the initiative to provide certain services, which are often co-financed by the government on the basis of the public interest identified. The bill therefore regulates the status of individual types of social security programmes and provides an appropriate basis for their financing. In this regard, it should also be noted that the draft law also lays down specific conditions for the award of public interest status in the field of social protection, thus allowing for the granting of this status to other private legal persons who are not established for profit purposes and are not necessarily a society. One of the long-awaited solutions in the draft law is the amended regulation of traineeships in the field of social protection. For traineeships are removed as a mandatory condition for access to a professional examination and reduces the duration of traineeships. This allows candidates who have not carried out traineeships to join the professional examination and have 6 or 9 months of experience in the field of social protection. It also took 6 or 9 months, depending on the working experience of the individual and the type of education, according to the proposal of the law. We will support this proposal of the Modern Centre Party in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister with the team, welcome! The Social Protection Act is once again one in a series of laws, which, on a proposal from the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, are dealt with in a reduced procedure. The reason for the reduced procedure is to be a less difficult change. Unfortunately, however, at the meeting of the parent committee, it was noted that there was no consensus between all stakeholders, so we do not think that the reduced procedure is appropriate. While the law provides substantively some good solutions, such as providing a legal basis for drawing on European funds in the pilot projects, modernising social security programmes and removing some minor administrative barriers. On the other hand, some of the solutions in the bill are unclear or incomplete. Here, in particular, we mean the abolition of compulsory traineeships for access to the professional examination. We do not feel that compulsory traineeships have been abolished in dispute, especially because we know that volunteer traineeships have been involved in these cases. However, given the fact that young people are still in need of work experience to carry out their professional examination and that, in view of the debate, it is still unclear how they can obtain them and what will be considered as working experience, we believe that the Ministry has rushed through the drafting of the law and that this issue has not yet been adequately addressed. Similarly, the law does not solve the problem that many congregations have pointed to. On the one hand, the average of municipalities from year to year is decreasing, and on the other hand, because of the deteriorating social status, in particular older amounts of transfers for institutional protection of adults are increasing, which has a significant impact on the operation of municipalities. Finally, the Court of Auditors in its report on the regularity of the operation of the municipalities found that the municipalities had no impact on the establishment of the beneficiary. In view of the fact that home supply prices are very different, it would be right for the Ministry to approach this problem as well. We have been told several times by the Ministry of Labour that comprehensive solutions must be prepared. There are no comprehensive solutions in this Proposal for a Law on Social Protection, despite the fact that this area is in dire need of them. We will not support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, nor will we oppose it, because it still brings some good solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! The area of social protection is one of a set of social security based on social justice, solidarity and the principles of equal accessibility and free choice of forms. The basic starting point of social protection measures is to ensure dignity and equal opportunities and to prevent social exclusion through social protection programmes that are currently thematically divided into ten public networks. These are designed for individual areas or individual target groups. However, social security programmes can be implemented as public-verified social security programmes, development and experimental social security programmes and complementary programmes. The proposed amendment of the Social Protection Act concerns changes and additions necessary for the further development of the social protection system. The changes relating to social security programmes are crucial to allow some programmes for which Slovenia will draw on European funds in the new financial perspective of European cohesion policy by 2020. Amendments to the programmes will apply what is enshrined in the Resolution on the National Social Protection Programme, set out by 2020, which means that the programmes will be more detailed and in line with the visions, resources and means of financing will be determined and the verification and extent of the duration of the programme will be determined. Long-term care and deinstitutionalisation are two key points that are of great importance in an increasingly ageing society. Therefore, the provision of long-term care should be our priority, and unfortunately we have been waiting for a long-term supply law for a decade. In the Desus Group, we hope for systemic arrangements for long-term care and personal assistance as of this year, of course aware that this is a complex matter that requires, in addition to clear objectives and assistance programmes, the identification of funding resources. At present, a little less than €500 million is earmarked for long-term care, but it is clear that more than that should be invested in the care of the elderly and others in need of long-term care, since, among other things, we should not neglect the informal assistance provided within families and by denying family members an extremely large contribution to both financial and human aspects. In the Desus Group today, we see the amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act as part of the contribution to strengthening this area in the future at least through social protection programmes. According to the competent ministry, this proposal for a law is intended to establish the legal basis for pilot projects relating to social activation and the experimental provision of services, which should later be part of the Long-Term Care Act. We also agree with the Ambassadors and Members of Desus with a significant change in this proposal, namely the abolition of traineeships as a mandatory condition for accession to the examination. However, candidates with six or nine months of experience in the field of social protection may also take part in the examination. We have also assessed that, in view of educational programmes where much practical work is already being done, compulsory training is not necessarily necessary prior to the completion of the vocational examination. Members and Members of the Party Desus see this novel as positive and we will support it. Of course, we expect significantly more government activities in the field of social protection in the future, as these are topics that touch the most vulnerable and at the same time the most vulnerable populations. It is known how the value of pensions has been reduced since 2010 and the social situation of the elderly as well as of the rest of the population has deteriorated, while some create a paradise on earth at the expense of the stings and works of the majority of the population of Slovenia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! In the 20 years since the existing Social Protection Act, he has already undergone a number of amendments and additions. In parallel, circumstances have developed and significantly changed the area of social protection programmes and have affected the development of new programmes as a reflection of emerging needs. Within the private sector, NGOs have been providing various forms of professional assistance for many years, and these organisations are often the generator of the development of new services, often co-financed by the government. The real area of social protection is an area where such effectiveness and efficiency are reflected in a specific form, as this is how very quality and user-friendly programmes are designed. This bill regulates the status of individual types of social protection programmes and provides an appropriate basis for their funding. With the amendment, we are changing the areas of social protection that currently need to be changed most. This is a matter of drawing up European funds in the field of social activation and coordinated community care on the basis of the application of legal bases, allowing for the prior testing of the organisation of activities or individual social security services or programmes. Another important area of change is the normative regulation of the status of financing and the implementation of social protection programmes aimed at preventing and addressing the social pressures of individual vulnerable groups. At the same time, these amendments also seek to remove certain unnecessary administrative obstacles that delay procedures, do not contribute to the higher quality of work, safety or transparency of the procedure, and comply with the applicable provisions on inspection supervision with the provisions of the law governing the inspection and supervision of work and complement the provisions of the applicable law with the provisions on specific conditions which society must comply with in order to obtain the status of society in the field of social protection. One of the most important solutions covered by the proposal for a law, which is necessary in order to develop the profession in the field of the implementation of social protection programmes and in order to expand the possibility of taking a social welfare examination, is the changes in the existing traineeship system in the field of social protection. The proposal removes the condition of compulsory traineeships for the entrance to the professional examination, so that candidates who have not carried out the traineeship may also be admitted to the professional examination but have six or nine months of experience in the field of social protection. The length of the traineeship period depends on the education and work experience gained in the field of social protection. Graduates from a school for social work for six months and all other graduates for nine months of training or work experience in this field. The majority of the debate touched on this particular area, with the need for a clear definition of the concept of work experience largely highlighted. Unfortunately, however, we cannot help but realize that the essence of the problem of traineeships is indeed the problem of providing funding for them. I believe that there is broad consensus and support on the inadmissibility of volunteer traineeships to prohibit such type of traineeship because it is a matter of ordinary exploitation. However, since training is necessary in some areas, it is therefore necessary to provide funding for these traineeships. At this point, too, I would expect us to reach broad consensus. Of course, there will always be funding problems and the related provision of a sufficiently large number of traineeships, but as long as the search for solutions is our common commitment, we will be able to overcome these problems more easily. Since traineeship means activation and entry into the world of work, complete termination is by no means the right solution, as long as we do not find other levers for the employment of young graduates. The Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, last Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u16	Good morning! Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable executive power, respectable assembly! The proposal is intended to allow for additional European funds, introduce new methods of social work and provide training for new social workers. Of course, a more accurate analysis shows that this will be achieved for the price of further downgrading of social services and the devalue of the social worker's profession, so I will immediately say that we will vote against it in the United Left. Citizens often and rightly protest against the commercialisation of the health system and against the financing of private operators by public means in the healthcare system. Few people know that the social security system is even more privatized than health care. I do not believe that any Minister of Health in the draft law would have hoped to write down what Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak wrote, quote: "For more than a decade now, the implementation of the extension of various forms of professional assistance in the field of social protection to the private sector has been taking place in Slovenia." End of quote. The reason for privatisation is that private operators are more friendly and more responsive to the needs of local environments. This is a logic that is essentially a capitulation of public interest to the private and, in fact, neglect of the Ministry of Labour's tasks. If you find that public institutions are unfriendly to users, you should improve the functioning of public institutions, Madam Minister. If they respond too slowly to the needs of the local environment, users and the local environment should play a greater role in decision-making on the functioning of public institutions, Madam Secretary of State. In no way can this be a reason to privatise social protection. No insurmountable obstacle prevents social workers in the public sector from doing social work outside institutions and from adapting more to user requirements. There is another reason for the Ministry's direction. Private operators are cheaper because they employ cheaper labour. When the Ministry issues an invitation to tender for a personal assistant, it shall determine funds which are often insufficient to pay the minimum wage. Tenders are limited in time and personal assistants are employed for a certain period of time. Tenders shall be submitted by unrelated companies that the workers are not in the unions. In short, the Ministry of Labour and Equal Opportunities, while others, creates the chastity of social workers. The same process of social worker grading continues in the field of traineeships. The system solution would be extremely simple, the text of compulsory traineeship being deleted from the traineeship law and replaced by words of work experience. In good social protection systems, knowledge is built up and tested throughout the entire career. Last year, the Ministry promised to replace compulsory traineeships by introducing work with mentors, but the law that is now being amended left only undeclared work experience. If I do some caricatures, someone who hasn't done anything other than serve coffee to the director of the private office will be able to pass the professional exam. Let's leave a joke aside. You have expanded the range of private service providers with public funds. As a condition for self-employment, you have introduced undefined work experience, thus providing the private with a pool of labour that will be forced to work for lower wages than in the public sector or even for free, only to gain work experience. This is, of course, unacceptable and such practices in the United Left will never be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u18	Dear President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We are once again witnessing the partial resolution of an area that would need comprehensive regulation. The proposal states that the proposed novelty only interferes with those areas of social protection that most urgently need to be changed and that in the future they should propose the adoption of a revised social protection law. In accordance with the New Slovenia programme, society must ensure that no individual or group lives below the social security threshold, so we promote awareness of the individual's personal responsibility in his or her own social security situation, especially in his or her age. Three factors are therefore responsible for the social security of each individual. First, each individual, then his or her working and living environment and finally the country with effective legislation and adequate financial resources. This is mainly because one of the main aims of the novel under consideration is to make it possible to effectively draw on European funds for social activation. The most urgent amendments to the Social Protection Act, referred to by the applicant, are the current abolition of traineeships as a mandatory condition for access to professional examinations, the provision of legal basis for the development of social protection programmes and the drawing up of European funds for the implementation of the pilot project. This should be the basis for the planned reorganisation of social work centres, the decommissioning of administrative procedures, the establishment of specific conditions for the award of the status of society in the public interest in the field of social protection, the alignment of the rules on inspection with the law governing inspection and inspection of work. Christian Democrats ask what the ministry has done so far. How long have we talked about reorganisation of social work centres, and only now, in the middle of 2016, do we get a proposal to adopt a legal basis for financing a pilot project. In our view, this slowness could be the basis for interpolation. We ourselves see what damage is being done to citizens because of, to say the least, strange procedures in the centres. We are also detained in New Slovenia until the complete termination of the existing traineeship system, which is now a condition for accession to the examination. The Ministry recalls that the effects of these changes should be closely monitored and responded quickly to any negative effects. Christian Democrats support the expansion of the possibility of granting the status of action in the public interest in the field of social protection to other legal persons of private law other than societies. This could also be extended to other areas where the functioning of NGOs is of great importance, which would certainly have a beneficial impact on the functioning of civil society in Slovenia. Members of New Slovenia will not object to the proposal of the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u19	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Today, many of the issues of youth training have been mentioned in the presentation of views, and I would like to point out that traineeships in the Republic of Slovenia are not free of charge, which means that this novel remains paid and so on. This novel does not stop the traineeship, but only speaks of the fact that the traineeship is no longer a mandatory condition for access to the professional exam, which means that those individuals who did not carry out the traineeships will also be able to join, but have somehow gained experience that is supposed to be 6-9 months old. This means that it is those individuals who have been working for a long time in the social field who have been gaining their experience in cities and why they would not be admitted to this experience as a real condition for access to a vocational examination that is really a very difficult and complex exam. So I think that in this sense it is not possible for us to evaluate this experience, but this simply has to be professional. At a meeting of the working body, Mrs De Reya of the Association Society, who is also an active co-worker of the Social Chamber, explained why she, too, felt this solution or said this approach. I must say that I fully agree that when we talk about the entry of young people into the labour market, we should also refer to the education system itself, which will allow young people, by the way, to have much more practice during the course of the study and to be able to acquire all the necessary knowledge and that, in fact, traineeships, once they have completed some studies, would not be necessary at all. That is how I agree in this respect, but I stress that I do not think that this novelty can address this issue in this way. That is why I will support the amendment as well as, as we have already said, the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u21	The word has magic. Tanya Zink.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. It has already been explained at the Committee's meeting that the draft law we are discussing today does not introduce major changes. It is only a matter of urgent changes that actually give rise to the already existing state of affairs when we are talking about social security programmes. In short, it is not a complete overhaul, which is necessary, and I also welcome the proposal by the proposer, at least as it was said on the Committee that this should also come next year. It is right that, through a reduced procedure, only the most urgent changes are actually introduced because we know that a lot of comments have been made at the time of public consideration of the bill and it is therefore right to reach a wider consensus of the professional public and thus to make more extensive amendments to the law following a regular procedure. As far as the introduction of new social security services is concerned, here I am thinking of social activation, in the past we know that it has already been shown that rapid moves are not the best. Finally, users of these services are people. So I also welcome the solution put forward by the proposal to establish a basis for the implementation of pilot projects, where only on the basis of appropriate evaluation and the expected positive effects will they be included in the social security services system. The Social Protection Act was adopted more than 20 years ago and has so far taken place in the field of social protection programmes to a large extent. The main part of the implementation of these forms of professional assistance has in fact moved to the private sector and most of it is carried out by NGOs and funding is provided by the Government in the main part. With this law, it is also an opportunity for this issue to be resolved by means of a concrete proposal for a law to regulate the status of individual types of social protection programmes and provide an appropriate basis for funding. I fully agree that a comprehensive overhaul of this law is necessary. We know that for at least a decade, there have been many attempts in this last decade, but it is probably not this ministry or this team and this minister, but the previous governments that have apparently not gathered enough courage or will for these changes. I would like to point out an internship that we discussed quite a bit at the Committee's meeting. Unfortunately, there was still a lot of dissatisfaction on the part of the guests, although I hope to say that the abolition of compulsory traineeships meant, however, easier employment for young people in the area of social protection. From now on, candidates who have not completed their traineeships, but have six or nine months of experience in the field of social protection, will be able to take part in the professional examination, which is a condition for self-employed professional work. Furthermore, we do not deviate significantly from the regulation of other European Union countries by making such a change. We know that in recent years the problems in the field of social protection traineeships have been solved through European funds that paid for the trainee's employment. With this amendment of the law, we will come to an arrangement comparable to other European countries and based on government material, it has also been supported by the professional public. Regardless of the fear that the proposed amendment of the law will close the door to the graduates of the Faculty of Social Work, I think it does not matter because it is essentially a professional examination that allows for the self-employed to perform professional work, and this will only make it easier for them to get a professional examination and thus meet the conditions of employment earlier. Once again, let me stress that the law does not regulate the issue of traineeship in a conceptual sense; only the condition for access to a professional examination is eliminated. However, the amendment proposed by the coalition proposes that the Social Chamber of Slovenia, by means of a general act in addition to the content and method of conducting the professional examination, also lays down the conditions for the performance of the professional examination or to define in detail the concept of working experience in the field of social protection, so that the content of the article is fully preserved and that the work of the person who applies the law will be substantially facilitated. I will support both the amendment and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u23	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll start without God in the details, the devil is in the details. Madam in front of me, Mrs Cink, who, after all, comes from this station before coming to Parliament, has made it very clear that we have a 20-year-old law, that in 20 years something has changed, that because this country and society and this temple of democracy, as you often say, have not worked effectively in 20 years, some civil-social initiative has resolved what should be resolved by public institutions. And now you are not going to be making any major systemic changes, as you like to say, but you are going to cement the existing state. You know, now say it up or down, stop blinding yourself, in this department ministry, through which the money actually goes the most from the budget cut, is one experienced team, is Mrs. Minister, who is the third term in this ministry, one was Secretary of State, has an experienced secretary of state, is my, let's say, colleague, who also came from this phoha. A man like that expects a lot more, of course, because we're used to working. That for a few 20 years we have not changed that we are comparable to the EU – we are not comparable to the EU. Like in the field of education is my ideal, the minister moves with her head, Finland, who has found that they have a very bureaucratic area, that they have problems in certain local communities, if you have problems that fall under the social fabric, divided into a whole range of offices, and went into integration of such matters. You have already forgotten what the first year was celebrated by Mir Cerar: All in one place. Now you're talking about, this year Schlagwort – what? Debirokratization. Debarcation to the detriment of citizens and citizens. To the detriment of the most needed assistance from citizens and citizens. Most of us, at least sociologists, know about Richard Sennett's famous book, which speaks of mastery, even if you learn a little about other things, you know what they say about this book. Rule ten thousand hours, ten thousand hours you're an apprentice, then you make a master's exam, then you get hit on the head a little bit like Beni Hill the one who stood by to let you know, because now we've got you through a demanding master's exam, but you're still almost an apprentice. And it's an area in aging societies that should be reconsidered in this way. And it wasn't me on purpose in our position or just exposing the mentoring system. Responsible policy must go beyond what different actors tell us. Of course, the civil society that took over because the country didn't work, they want it to stay somehow. Of course, they should be some complement to a part of this system if we are talking in your way about systemic solutions, even because they have a lot of hidden skills, which are overly liberalized by the system, if you want, social work centres, they don't, because you've been collecting them over the past 20 years. Now, I'm not going to read your prayers here a little bit more in the way of SDS, but the fact is we have a major problem with social work centres. We have found that almost every centre for social work has its own information technology, that some internal control, which is more of a flat-rate nature, must be carried out for three years, some reports are given annually. Now there will be some reorganization where off the record partner from the coalition tells me, yes, in such a way that the SD of those 16 plus 1 or 15 plus 1 will keep its primate, because unfortunately as one of the most experienced parties, so unfortunately the policy in Slovenia works, keeps its primate in the para state. Instead of talking, say, about long-term care. I mean, we've known that for how long? And to solve it. After last night, at the end of my tongue, I'm gonna say, "Bloody, shame, around bikes, people wrote to me, and you guys start saving something, not just overheating it here. Mr Cerar likes to say that we will not lower social standards. You're lowering them, they're lowering them! You've told me nicely that you know this, but in fact, we're waiting for this systemic solution that will give us a numinous being and it won't come, and this time we're going to cement the situation as it is, and we're going to somehow succeed in making it worse. You know, a whole series of things, a whole range of expertise – my long-dead ex-partner Ida Hojnik Zupanc, who was involved in social gerontology 20 years ago, and we knew that people would want greater autonomy at the age of the need to deinstitutionalize these skeleton systems, to come across people, to help them. I mean, but you know, there's no hot water to detect here. I don't know what you've been doing in the profession for 20 years if we touch these lines, except maybe you're a little bit — but I'm unfair to a lot of people who, I admit, are working hard and having the same problem in their stomach as I am. [[…]] Preparation for an expert examination in the field of social protection. The quotation is for individual members of the 135th Chamber, for collective members 165, for non-members 205 euro, VAT is included, students and unemployed persons 25% discount, and the bill will be presented to you within 8 days of the seminar. They are teaching – and I will not be names, and I could also mention a minister, a former SD, a gentleman from the Ministry of Labour, a family, etc., a lady from the Ljubljana Centre for Social Work, a gentleman from the Slovenian Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation – and one gets the feeling that you are only going for a few more pennies to pick up, very in your own words. Not just me, but the necessary assistance awaits some concrete solutions. Some young people who have decided that this will be their mission in life also expect some normal completion of studies. But I can no longer talk about it in a populist way, for the weapons there will be money for the energy lobby, where the SD, SDS, where there is now a little bit of SMC coming, there will be money for this kind of emergency – this is the most urgent issue with the economic start of Slovenia – and we will be waiting for systemic solutions. “How much longer?” they would say in my mother’s language. How long are we gonna wait for them, Madam Secretary? I mean, I wouldn't like to be in your place of work because I hope that you too, Madam Secretary of State, have so much social deontology in the professions from which you both come, that you are probably in some matter almost close to bipolar disorder when you have some knowledge when you want something, but when you agree to such a dictatorship. On the side of who? I don't know. On the side of Mr. Dusk, who's banging on the table, as the Minister without a resort said? On the side, I don't know, Mr. Cerar, who obviously doesn't see poverty? By whisperers from abroad? On the part of those interested in further privatising this sector? And experience, especially experience, for example, from countries that have gone to a great privatisation of this and other things, the United Kingdom and so on, shows that, as a result, for more money, we get worse solutions in the medium term. And now they're going back to privatisation, even such a country, which is very NSI-Yevska, I'll say, according to politics. I am running out of time, but it is high time we were looking for some solutions in the public sector of social health. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u25	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Now I feel a little younger because I remembered how Mr Trček, Dr. Trček, was teaching at the university in a very similar way this time, but I felt like I was in the classroom, otherwise it was a different topic, a spatial sociology, because he also got the title, but we are indeed a fellow resident, as far as the sociological field is concerned. Nevertheless, I will allow myself a little bit about the boundaries within the social state and how Slovenia is located, historically, and even today. This is an obvious point, as you have pointed out, to privatize the area of social protection by means of this law. In fact, there is no country in Europe, even in a wider world of developed post-modern companies, where the state would be the only provider of social security services and programmes, the public sector. There's no such arrangement in the world. As in Slovenia, where all classifications of countries of prosperity are still internationally comparable, Slovenia still ranks safely among the social-democratic types, where the public sector is in fact the dominant. The public sector prevails. It is normal, however, that due to pluralism in a society where there is not one service and the public sector is not the only one to be saved and because it has certain limits, which are all the same everywhere, of course this sector complements the private sector, which is, and you have forgotten to say, the non-governmental sector and, of course, the non-profit sector. When you talk about privatisation, you're under the impression that now we're allowing some legal entities to enter this area without any restrictions and do something about social protection. Because we are colleagues and because I respect you and because you are Dr. Science, I expect that when you generalise, you generalise in a way that does not mean that you are misleading the general public who is listening at this moment. Because there's no privatisation in this law. It is, however, the fact that the private sector has been in this country for 20 years, with the non-governmental sector in particular implementing social protection programmes, which is indeed the ministry during this period and this year we have even more scratched the money of 13 million euros, to distribute to help people, including for homeless people in Maribor to have some help. Even for having mothers' homes to be implemented, we also have houses where safe houses are available to accommodate women in case of violence. This and this is part of the social protection system. And by this law, as has been said, we are simply regulating the way that this funding is more secure. Because the problem of developing a social protection system in Slovenia is that the non-governmental sector, which is an important part of complementarity, can never be replaced, no one has said that there is no key role for the country, so this non-governmental sector must also have a certain stability and expectation that our system can be developed and complemented. That's all this law does. And it is true, if we listen, the NSI colleagues said that their view is that it must first be a personal responsibility of an individual, then it is a job or a market and then a country. Yeah, that's the logic of the liberal system. You told me a system that, I don't know, I can only simplify, but Professor Kolarichev's Russians are such a system, I mean, they called the state's ethical system, where in fact the state with its public sector is the only one that provides. Yes, if this is what you want, but today in the 21st century, when also theorists in this area have found that, of course, the country in its own way is important, but at the same time it cannot, because it is basically a state and centres for social work, I agree, we need to reorganise, but it cannot work in the same way as non-governmental organisations. It is therefore necessary to complement each other. That's the way it always is, and it's everywhere. For example, our professor's colleague, Mr. Russo, was – what's the problem? That we must from a state of prosperity to a society of prosperity. This welfare society operates and co-creates — who? Non-governmental organisations, i.e. different responsibilities, but you want a state-owned ethical system. Yeah, but I'm not here enough - I don't know what? Left? What's not enough? Are we not allowing enough of this, breaking down the social security system? Second. We're not shutting down the traineeship system. We're not shutting him down, it's just that he's no longer required. You know why? In 25 years, the system of education and the functioning of this system has changed significantly. If we just look at the development of education, the Faculty of Social Work was first a higher school and then a compulsory internship, today this same school has developed to be at the university programme level. If we look at their program, they have very big practical work, they work in the field. This was also the goal of Bologna reform, which has been implemented in ways by universities or universities. But the fact is, in their program is 60 hours and more, I will not be precise, working in the field where the centres for social work are their learning base, and we are also talking about how to arrange for this cooperation to be more and even better. Because it is precisely the aim of students to become as qualified as possible to work at social work centres and other social welfare institutions during their studies. That's the point, because we don't have enough money to pay for education, then we pay compulsory traineeships, and we can only pay for everything – that's not how it works anymore. I might want that to be possible, but it's not possible. And there are no such systems anywhere in Europe. Work experience. We will not be setting our own work experience, because we are aware that at the Ministry we are not the ones who can evaluate this concept in a way that all those involved will be satisfied, and that is why the Social Chamber, in cooperation with all those involved, especially young people, we want to work together to create this. Here, too, the Social Chamber plays an important role in the social protection system itself, has public powers under the law and is part of this system. As with every medical, law-enforcement chamber, there should be representatives, professional ethics of social protection there and, in fact, should be important co-actors and co-formers of these changes, because they are the first address for the profession of social work in addition to college and all other participants. Another thing I would still like to see, because you have pointed out that it seems important to me to address it, is the question of institutional protection and the payment of the congregations. Since you are most of the comments of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, there has been a charge for social security services in nursing homes, where the system is such that if an individual and his family cannot, the municipalities are paid. The fact is, we could not have arranged this in this law, because the law only provides for a payment method. The way in which the price is calculated and the way in which the social work centres decide in which the home of pensioners is regulated is regulated by the rules, in accordance with the agreement of the SOS, the ZOS and the governments with the municipalities, it is also the time until the end of the summer to also regulate these rules. We're addressing this issue, but it's not legal matter, so it's not in here. As far as long-term care is concerned, I also agree, here is an important reminder that we can do this. However, it is a fact that this is a day-to-day concern and coordination with the Ministry of Health, because 48% of long-term care funds are provided by the Health Insurance Institute and there is agreement with the health sector to jointly develop long-term care as the integration of the service is crucial. Unfortunately, the social system alone cannot build this system, and therefore unfortunately it takes longer. However, the Ministry of Public Administration is also intensely involved in this, as is still the case with the coalition agreement that by the end of the year the law is in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u27	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. There's no more time, so it's procedural. I can't give you anything else. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u29	He wants to go through with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u30	Procedurally yes. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u31	You didn't ask for it, so [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u32	I'm asking you to do it on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u33	No, you can't ask him now. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. He's right. No, no, no. He's right. There is no further debate on this matter because there is no interest in the debate. I admit my mistake in this case, I implied to you that you only have a procedural option, but you didn't ask for it at the beginning and then I can't cancel this thing. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the Republic of Slovenia's measures to protect the stability of banks, a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of four Members with the first-signed Dr Bojan Dobovšek. The bill is being proposed at the 23rd session of the 4th session. 5. 2016 treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Group of the Party of the Modern Center, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Messengers and Members, nice greetings! The Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members has tabled a proposal to the National Assembly to delete Article 29, paragraph 7, of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which provides that, irrespective of the provisions of the law governing banking governing the assessment of the suitability of members of the management body, it shall carry out in a bank which has received measures to strengthen the stability of banks under this Act and in which the Republic of Slovenia is the sole shareholder, assessing the adequacy of the supervisory board member prior to his appointment in the Slovenian State Holding. When making an assessment of the eligibility of the candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board, the Slovenian State Holding shall take into account the conditions and criteria laid down for a member of the supervisory board of the Bank by the law governing banking and the acts issued on the basis of its issuances. The draft deletion proposed that the Bank of Slovenia, as regulator of the Slovenian banking system and a member of the European Central Bank, should not have any role in the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the largest Slovenian bank, although this role should be clearly laid down in the Banking Act. This claim is certainly not true because the role of the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank is clearly set out in the Banking Act. The Bank of Slovenia shall, under the Banking Act, make a subsequent assessment of the suitability of a member of the Supervisory Board. Thus, Banka Slovenije may, in accordance with Article 57 ZBan-2 to verify that a member of the Supervisory Board fulfils the conditions and duties referred to in Article 55 of the Banking Act 2, decide to conduct an oral interview inviting a member of the supervisory board of the Bank to present in more detail the circumstances which, according to the Bank of Slovenia, are relevant for the assessment of the fulfilment of the conditions and duties of the member of the supervisory board of the Bank itself. In accordance with Article 273 ZBan-2, the Bank of Slovenia is also competent to prohibit the performance of a member of the Supervisory Board in certain cases. With amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to Strengthen the Stability of Banks, which was in force in December 2015, the Government wanted, by Article 29, paragraph 7, of the same Act, to make preliminary assessments of the candidate as a member of the Supervisory Board and not a bank. This solution is seen from the point of view of the right of the State as the sole shareholder, the owner of the bank, to also perform the function of a preliminary assessment of the eligibility of the candidate, because SDH also exercises and exercises the right of the shareholder on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia at the assembly itself, so that SDH also appoints supervisors in any case. The proposed proposal only follows that it applies to banks which have received State aid and in which the Republic of Slovenia is the sole shareholder and is responsible for the consistent fulfilment of the commitments made to the European Commission under the State aid assessment procedure. One of the commitments also relates to the consolidation of corporate governance in the bank and, of course, a key commitment is the timely completion of the privatisation of state-owned banks. However, additional criteria and conditions for candidates for members of supervisory boards are governed by the Companies Act, as already mentioned in Article 53 of the Banking Act, as regards the performance of the function of a member of the supervisory board of the bank, acts issued on this basis, as well as the EBA guidelines. It follows from the above that SDH must take into account at least the same criteria and conditions that the bank takes into account in the pre-assessment process. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore considers that the seventh paragraph of Article 29 of the Law on the Regulation of Banks’ Credit Stability is without prejudice to the quality of the preliminary verification of candidates. In view of the solutions taken from SDH in order to assess the suitability of the candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board, we do not support the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u35	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Group of Unaffiliated Members has decided to introduce the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Measures of the Republic of Slovenia to Strengthen the Stability of Banks, mainly because of the irresponsible work of the Government of Mir Cerar, and that the cause of the blemish which the Government of Mira Cerar and the Coalition, SMC, SD and Desus have allowed in the appointment and selection of the Supervisory Board of our largest bank. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are concerned about what is happening around our bank. Last but not least, we are concerned about the statements made by the Governor of Banka Slovenije, who in the media explains that the operation and the moves made by SDH have been reported to the European Central Bank and that this can be followed by thousands of euros in fines for our largest Slovenian bank. And, a respected coalition, a respected Government of Mir Cerar, I think it is high time that you make order in the banking sector, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that there is a very high risk that because of all the moves made by both the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia, taxpayers can expect the third rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system at the expense of taxpayers. And, respected and respected, it is also sad that the opposition party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, has tabled numerous amendments and proposals in this mandate and that both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are vehemently rejecting any changes in the Bank of Slovenia Act, the Banking Act and the additions to the Law on the Strengthening of the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. But there's always the same excuse. Banka Slovenije speaks to the European Central Bank, the Government speaks out on the independence and independence of the Bank of Slovenia and the Slovenian banking system suffers and, in particular, the pockets of taxpayers and taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia. To this day, our largest system bank has no complete supervisory board. In the SDS we are particularly concerned about the relationship between the three most important stakeholders here the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia. If we were able to listen before the time when Banka Slovenije spoke out on the confidentiality of information and independence, we can now listen to both the Vice Governor and the Governor of Banka Slovenije, who speaks out to the European Central Bank. I think we need to make some radical changes here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u37	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Madam Secretary and honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law that we did not support in the Desus Group on the home working body. The main reason for our decision lies in the belief that human resources appointments do not change laws, but are regulated differently. The rule of law also points to the principle of the protection of trust in law, which requires that individual decisions are stable, building also on the decision of the Constitutional Court, which states that the right to exercise its function of regulating social life, if it is as permanent and permanent as possible. The proposed law states that the Bank of Slovenia, as regulator of the Slovenian banking system and a member of the European Central Bank, had no role in the appointment of the members of the largest Slovenian bank’s supervisory board, even though this task is clearly laid down in the Banking Act. Contrary to the applicant's statements, the Bank of Slovenia Banking Act does not confer any powers in relation to the preliminary assessment of the eligibility of the candidate for a member of the Bank's Supervisory Board. However, Banka Slovenije has the competence to provide an ex post assessment of the suitability of a member of the supervisory board of the bank. The Bank of Slovenia may decide to carry out oral reasons on which a member of the supervisory board of the bank is invited to present in more detail the circumstances which, in its view, are relevant for the assessment of the fulfilment of the conditions and duties of a member of the supervisory board of the bank. The Bank of Slovenia is also competent to prohibit the performance of a member of the supervisory board of the Bank in certain cases. Otherwise, in the Desus Group, it seems right for us to decide on the composition of the Supervisory Board by the owner represented by SDH in this case. However, SDH — and this has been pointed out on several occasions in the Desus Group — should NLB appoint its supervisors, we should take into account that it must not in any way appoint people to whom the shadow of doubt falls due to their past activities in the NLB. However, this is certainly not an important reason to change the law. For these reasons, we did not support the proposed law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u39	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The purpose of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is to amend the procedure for appointing members of the supervisory boards of banks, namely those banks which received State resolution through the measures of 2013. The current regime provides an exception to the responsibility of the Slovenian State holding company in cases of designation of supervisory boards in banks receiving State aid. However, it is stated in the law that the Slovenian State Holding has to comply with the conditions and criteria laid down by the law governing banking as a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board and the acts issued on its basis. In view of the known fact that the members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank have recently resigned, we can conclude that the Slovenian State Holding has failed to carry out procedures in accordance with the Banking Act and has actually misused an exception specifically imposed on it. If someone gets an exception, then this exception has to be understood as an additional commitment, not as a way to disobey the rules. Therefore, we can talk about the fact that the Slovenian State Holding or Administration has lost confidence, if not the majority in the National Assembly, I hope to claim most people in Slovenia. This area of supervision over the operations of banks, today we can see again, is not properly regulated, so we are convinced that in this area we need to actually introduce more control, but above all we need to take responsibility and integrity into the process, especially since we are also leading the process to sell banks, including our system banks, and that before that, the sale of claims on small and medium-sized enterprises and individuals, of course again, is at an extremely low discount rate, i.e. also with an 80 % discount rate, is expected to sell claims on small, medium-sized enterprises and natural persons. This opens the field of non-transparent sales. And this is certainly one of those issues that suggests that supervision of the operation of banks should be arranged in an exemplary manner before these procedures are carried out, i.e. both the sale of banks and the sale of claims that then have a significant impact on the sale price under which the bank is sold. For all this, I think it would also be right for the Slovenian State Holding to examine its current conduct and try to gain confidence in the way at least the President of the Management Board, Mr Marko Jazbec, would be one of the clear indicators that we want to show the way to greater confidence in the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding. The fact is, as it turns out, we do not want to learn anything from the fact that we have already invested almost EUR 5 billion in banks and that we have invested this capital in a way that we have even committed ourselves to selling banks. All of this should be a very serious signal that we should not do such things in the future. But this process has not yet ended well, we are already starting a new one, which follows everything we have seen so far, along even worse paths than the banks' rehabilitations have been taking place so far. Therefore, it is certain that the preliminary verification of the candidates for bank supervisors, both by the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank, is one of the necessary solutions to be enacted as soon as possible. We supported this bill on the committee for this very reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u41	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye! The United Left's position is that the coalition made a big mistake here because it ended the law with its left hand. While this is a permanent practice in dealing with opposition laws, it is particularly unacceptable in this case. I can say that there is a pattern in the behaviour of the coalition – first there is a real social problem, then one opposition party proposes a legislative solution, the government and the coalition do not even participate in the process in order to complete or improve this proposal, but simply reject it. This has been the case, for example, our recent Labour Inspection Act, which eliminates the current anomaly in the law, which will make this moment more than 100 former journalists forced to consent to the continuation of illegal exploitation. This is not some hypothetical or imaginary problem of abuse of labour law, but we have in front of our eyes specific journalists and specific employers who are exploiting them, the last infamous case was the Delo Media House. The same is true of the management of state property. We have in front of our eyes in SDH a SDH supervisory council in which three members must be permanently excluded due to conflicts of interest. And this supervisory board, where three members are constantly in conflict of interest, has appointed an administration before our eyes that has no business reputation, let alone to be entrusted with the property of citizens. And this administration, which has neither the business reputation nor the confidence of the citizens, has named in front of our eyes NLB's supervisory board personnel who, as it turns out, do not have any moral capital. These procedures raise doubts about the deliberate damage to state property. SDH, on the one hand, sells NLB, at the same time attracts moves that reduce the reputation and value of NLB, which means it also reduces potential purchases. On the one hand, we have the NLB, which is now on sale, under the authority of the perpetrator for six months. Even if we tried, and obviously it is, the SDH administration in the supervisory world would hardly name more unworthy personnel than it is. The political responsibility lies with the Finance Minister Dusan Maramor, who has taken the floor for the members of the Supervisory Committee, the coalition she has elected, and also Mira Cerar, who, despite the obvious fiasco, still has their backs. The proposal of the Bank of Slovenia to say in advance about the eligibility of candidates is, according to our assessment, something very concrete, which can be achieved on the corporate side of the supervisory boards of state banks under the current regime. While the fact is that the regime, the general regulation imposed on us by the European Union, imposes a conflict of interest, namely on the appropriateness of the new members of the Supervisory Council, gives a de facto view of the old supervisory board, where this conflict of interest arises, that the old supervisory council may appoint people who are confident that they will not seek their sins back. As it is said, in the selection of owners' representatives, European legislation is very restrictive in the corporate work of the supervisory councils. We are forgetting the second unused option, and that is, the constitutional right of workers to co-decision. Organized workers in banks and state-owned enterprises in general can be controls and counterbalances in both client and capital interests in companies. Therefore, more than one year ago, we proposed the SDH Act, after which half of the members of the Supervisory Board and one member of the Board would be appointed employees in state companies managed by SDH. The coalition has rejected our model, based on the Joint Workers' Council. Despite promises, the government side of the alternative proposal has still not submitted, although we have always expressed in the United Left the maximum willingness to coordinate. Another solution in this direction would be the return of workers' representatives to the supervisory councils of banks, which we have proposed with amendments to the Banking Act ourselves. Therefore, we do not agree to the coalition's claim that there is no alternative. There is a real alternative, an alternative that is in the public interest. The only thing missing from all these proposals is the political will of the coalition to achieve public interest and to step on private hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u43	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable proposers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Novelo provides for the deletion of Article 29, paragraph 7, of the existing law. This paragraph provides for an exception for certain banks whereby the Slovenian State Holding is given the power to assess the eligibility of candidates for a member of the Supervisory Board prior to their appointment. This exception applies only to banks that have received measures to strengthen the stability of banks and banks where Banka Slovenije is the sole shareholder. According to the new Slovenian State Holding, it would no longer have competence to assess the eligibility of candidates for a member of the Supervisory Board in banks receiving aid and in state banks. In accordance with Article 35 of the Banking Act, this jurisdiction would go back to the bank alone. The applicant is of the opinion that it is only reasonable for the supervisory board of such a bank or any bank to be appointed in the agreement of the Bank of Slovenia and under the conditions laid down in the applicable Banking Act. In Novi Slovenija, we understand the concerns and efforts of the proponents in connection with the activities of the Slovenian state holding company in Novi Ljubljanska Bank, which have recently been shown in their Proposal for a New Law on Banking. Currently, the Slovenian state holding company, with its existing leadership in this area, plays a negative role, and here we support the call by the Social Democrats for the resignation of Mr Mark Jazbec. In New Slovenia, however, we have some general concerns about the principles of corporate governance in this amendment of the law, as the country has invested billions of euros in these banks. The recruitment practice in the Slovenian banking system is in a very dangerous state. If we don't make the right move and make it impossible for inappropriate people to enter the supervisory worlds of banks, we may be facing new recapitalisations. And New Slovenia is also deeply concerned about this. The breakdown by appointing supervisors to the New Ljubljana Bank calls for action in this area. To solve the problem of inadequate supervisors in Slovenian banks we need an effective and comprehensive solution. We Christian Democrats have therefore prepared a new Law on Banking, which, in the past, makes it impossible for persons who have demonstrated sub-average success in creating non-profit claims to meet as a member of the Bank's Supervisory Board. We also place the criteria in the European criterion, as we are also introducing a comparison with the functioning of banks in the European Monetary Union. In Novi Slovenija we understand the efforts and efforts of the applicants, so we also supported their solution on the home work body.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u45	The word is given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, the last of which is Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u46	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Non-transparent recruitment is typical of banking institutions, especially the New Ljubljana Bank. SDH has a key role to play, and consequently the government and the coalition. The point is that, with our proposal, we wanted to settle the situation and propose two amendments, the Banking Act and the other law before us. Why did we define ourselves? The assessment of the suitability of members of the Supervisory Boards is regulated by the Banking Act. The law that we are considering today, however, has brought an exception to this arrangement. We want the system to be uniformly regulated, and therefore we propose that this exception, which has come into law quietly and we have not discussed it, we may have overlooked it, but I believe more that it has come into law on purpose and allowed SDH to take the workforce that is ahead of us today. We therefore propose that the seventh paragraph, which provides for an exception to the uniform regime, be deleted. It is a small change supported by the State Council. We have repeatedly warned about this. The labour force has not accepted the proposed amendment, which will further allow non-transparent staffing and confusion of responsibility. And it's the responsibility that has to be exposed. If we wanted to assess the candidates in SDH and in the government, we could evaluate them and that champion of theirs could come to the chosen place, but we find that these champions do not meet the conditions for meeting these cities. A real deletion of the proposed indent would allow for greater transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u47	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In view of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of four Members and first-signed members, Dr Bojan Dobovšek, for consideration by the Assembly. The bill is being proposed at the 23rd session of the 4th session. 5. 2016 treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, for which the Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! We are now going here to continue what the group of unrelated Members has also proposed, namely to amend and supplement the Banking Act. A very similar segment, as discussed in the preceding amendment, is that the proposer proposes that the Assembly of the Bank may decide to appoint a certain person as members of the supervisory board of the bank when that person is authorised to serve as a member of the supervisory board of that bank. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that somehow this proposal and the change in its meaning, because, above all, I will say, the lewdness afforded by the Government of Mir Cerar and the SMC, SD and Desus coalition in appointing the members of the NLB Supervisory Board, could in some way also support such a proposal and supplementation in the SDS Group. It is an additional safeguard that similar benevolence as afforded by this government would not be repeated in the future. Undoubtedly, such an amendment to the law also reduces the risk that for the bank, especially when there are irresponsible owners and they do not know how to appoint members of the supervisory board, there can be no irreparable consequences. For here the main aspect of the validity of all decisions, which are hypothetically confirmed by the Supervisory Board, can be highlighted and then determined after, say, a period of one month or two months that these members of the Supervisory Board have not at all obtained appropriate authorisations by regulators. We are saddened by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we are not surprised by the moves taken by this parliamentary group and also by this coalition, that you have also considered this law inappropriate for further consideration. And the well-respected government, the respected Ministry of Finance, the well-respected coalition, we really wonder what your intentions are, what your goals are with such irresponsible management of state property. Last but not least, when we listen to the position of the Social Democrats, we can find that somehow within the framework of the parliamentary groups, at least it comes within the coalition to very conflicting opinions and views. And after all this, at least in the position of the previous law, we can rightly ask in the Slovenian Democratic Party who is running the government of Mir Cerar. Because, according to all the views you've expressed, I'm sure there's probably someone in the background who runs this government and manages state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u49	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thanks again for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for a law that we did not support in the parliamentary group, even this. Its purpose was to amend Article 54 in force so that the Assembly of the Bank could decide on the appointment of a certain person as a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board after that person had obtained permission to serve as a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board. We are therefore talking about the introduction of mandatory licensing of bank supervisors. Although we have already analysed this solution on Banka Slovenije's prior authorisation at the time of consideration of the current law, we have abandoned it in the course of the procedure on the basis of further coordination with the Association of Banks of Slovenia. This does not mean, of course, that there is no control over the members of the supervisory boards of banks. The Bank of Slovenia shall have the power to provide an ex post assessment of the suitability of a member of the supervisory board of the bank. The Bank of Slovenia may also decide to hold an oral interview to which a member of the supervisory board of the bank is invited to present in more detail the circumstances which, in its view, are relevant for the assessment of the fulfilment of the conditions and duties of the member of the supervisory board of the bank. The Bank of Slovenia is also competent to prohibit the performance of the supervisory board of the Bank in certain cases. In the case of banks that are considered to be important institutions, the European Central Bank also subsequently gives its opinion on the appropriateness of supervisors. Of course, our decision to reject the bill does not mean that we are excited about the decision to select supervisors, but in the Desus Group we are convinced that the potentially reckless appointments of staff do not change the laws. That's why we didn't confirm the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u51	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act also refers to the arrangements for verifying the eligibility of candidates for bank supervisors in all banks. It was also somehow introduced as a twin with a previous law, because this would also actually clear up the appointment procedure led by both the Slovenian State Holding and the procedure taken by other banks that were not granted state aid for recovery. The law provides for the re-introduction of a licence for a bank supervisor and therefore it is necessary to clear the procedure in order to grant such a licence to the Bank of Slovenia. It is true that, in the law itself, the complete procedure for how this is to be done is not fully cleared, but guidance is the right one and would certainly be necessary. Part of why this is necessary, I have already presented in the presentation of the position in the previous law, and I am sure here also to mention that the appointment of supervisors at the New Ljubljana Bank is certainly the case that we can say has gone in the wrong direction and that such cases must be prevented. Again, we would like to point out that this is certainly a very sensitive moment, but it is a package of bad claims that are being sold. Prior to that, clear answers should be given to whether an appropriate market value for the valuation of the claims being sold is to say EUR 800 million, whether it is appropriate to select those claims according to the level of likelihood of payment and whether they are properly included in the sales list. It is also very important to see whether the claim process is publicised, namely the fact that we have recapitalised banks by public means. The question is also whether equal access to information is ensured to all interested customers and whether they have also made provision in this process to verify the appropriateness of potential buyers and, above all, verified their appropriate financial strength, which would also allow for the future control of the risks arising from the purchase of claims. The whole range of questions that the relevant supervisors in Nova Ljubljanska Bank can certainly ask for an answer, and this relevance can be achieved to a much greater extent also by obtaining a license from the Bank of Slovenia. We did not oppose the law on the committee, but we believe that this process of appointment of supervisors and, above all, their integrity must be regulated as soon as possible before the property is damaged again, which is then reached into the pockets of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u53	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Have a nice hello again! In our view, the proposal of unrelated Members makes sense and solves the real problem. Given that the Bank of Slovenia has the responsibility and duty to assess subsequently the suitability of the members of the supervisory boards of banks, it would make sense to give an opinion on eligibility before the appointment itself. This would avoid the cost of repeating the calls and the complications we are seeing now. In short, a predictability that is not in the current regime would be introduced into the procedure. We are convinced, however, that the whole system imposed by the European Directive should be repaired and that it actually legitimizes the conflict of interest as something normal, as described in the previous paragraph. Following the current regulation, the assessment of the eligibility of candidates for members of the Supervisory Boards shall be issued by the Supervisory Board in its old composition. The decision shall be issued on the basis of an assessment prepared by the Compliance Service. The bank can hire this job, but it can be part of the bank itself, as in the NLB case. As long as we have such a system, the bank will choose its own supervisors, the old supervisory councils will choose new ones. There's a clear conflict of interest here. The Compliance Service will be able to issue a positive assessment on the basis of a new member's counter-service so that it does not trouble certain disputed behaviours of the old. The same is true for the members of the Supervisory Board, which we are taking a final decision on. It is also in their interest to cover up their own affairs and sins. Thus, we do not really see how a system in which old supervisors confirm the suitability of new ones can lead to better supervision on the basis of an assessment of the bank's service itself under supervision. At the same time, we note that Banka Slovenije has always had the opportunity to prohibit the performance of the functions of members of the supervisory boards or of the bank administrations of the first Janša government, when the bulk of the bad loans became available. It is clear that the global capitalist crisis is not a result of banking crime and all relevant studies, in particular the work of Professor Prašnik from the Faculty of Economics, clearly show that most credits were not spent on Taiwanese credits but were spent on investment in the core activity. It is known, for example, that the credit capacity in road transport increased by 100 % between 2006 and 2008. This was a typical example of mine effect. Investors are looking for extra profits when expected returns are raised, investors are investing in increasingly risky project projects, doing so increasingly speculatively in anticipation of increasing returns. This is not a matter of individual morality, but in such a system it is somehow rational to act as a capitalist or manager, which is catastrophic for society as a whole and for capitalism itself. What I want to say is not that Banka Slovenije, by evaluating a member of the administrations and supervisory boards, could completely prevent such development, but that supervisors operating in Banka Slovenije could carry out their function significantly better if there was no built-in conflict of interest that the new supervisors would be appointed by an old supervisory committee, thus essentially creating a network in the banking sector. A real shift would have been better if the link had been interrupted by another social group that has an interest in ending it and being organised in it. That is why last year, as I said before, when the Banks Act was being considered, we proposed that the right of employees in banks to be appointed members of the Supervisory Board and also to appoint a Labour Director be returned. The collectives of employees would appoint their members to the posts, i.e. those employed in banks as well as representatives of labour organisations and trade unions. This would result in a combination of supervisors who would have a review of the situation in banks and supervisors who could not be bullied by employers or political parties because they would be behind them by a union and a collective of employees. This would restore the right of employees in banks to other workers in Slovenia or other employees in banks across Europe, such as Sweden, Austria and Germany, in short, where the system of co-management has been developed and is functioning. These are also the principles and objectives that we would like to implement with our proposal for a law on the participation of workers in management. As for this law, I repeat, it is a pity that the coalition has turned it back so easily because it responds to the real social problem that is taking place here and now before our eyes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u55	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, the last Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Yes, even in Nova Slovenija we regret that this proposal for a law on the parent's working body has failed. We regret that the efforts of the proponents and their ideas have gone in the right direction, but the coalition has almost fully decided to overrun the law. The general situation in the Slovenian banking system, as well as the recent developments in the New Ljubljana Bank regarding the fiasco of the appointment of new members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, are calling for measures to increase transparency and prevent unacceptable situations in such an important area as the appointment of members to the supervisory council of banks. The existing mechanisms for evaluating, verifying and appointing candidates in recruitment procedures to the supervisory boards of banks have proved inappropriate. The proposal for the amendment to the Banking Act, which we have before us, brings or has made a request for prior permission to serve as a member of the Bank’s Supervisory Board. Only after this condition has been fulfilled can the Assembly of the Bank decide to appoint the candidate for office. As the representative of the Bank of Slovenia has already warned at one of the meetings of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the current regime can lead to serious problems. In the event that Banka Slovenije assesses the suitability of members of the Supervisory Board only subsequently, there is a possibility of situations where the Supervisory Board is suddenly without a larger number of its members. This can in the worst cases also lead to a blockage in the functioning of the Supervisory Board. In pre-checking the owner, however, we force the owner to make an appropriate assessment and selection of the candidate in advance, resulting in an optimum composition of the Supervisory Board from the very beginning. Let us not forget that Slovenian taxpayers have invested €1.55 billion in the New Ljubljana Bank alone. This is why we citizens deserve a more careful and transparent appointment to such important functions as membership in supervisory boards of banks. Therefore, support for this bill means support for the voice of citizens who, through recapitalisations, also pay for past mistakes by supervisors of various Slovenian banks. The requirement for a prior authorisation to act as a member of the supervisory board of the bank will certainly help to increase the transparency, rationality and systematicness of the procedures for the selection of supervisors and the stability of the later functioning of the supervisory board. Christian Democrats are proposing a procedural improvement in the method of appointment, which we consider to be positive. At the same time, we have announced or have already submitted a supplement to the appointment of members of the supervisory boards of banks in a substantive sense. We must not afford to have people sitting in the supervisory boards of banks who have not shown good results in the past or, worse still, people who have participated in drilling a bank hole that had to be filled by Slovenian citizens with their money. This must never happen again. Let me remind you, on the working body of the mother body, we have supported the proposal of the drafters, the group of unrelated Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u57	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you. Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, two proposals, this is the amendment of the Banking Act and the previous one, about the so-called bad bank, are linked and it is indeed written because of a specific problem – this was the recruitment in the New Ljubljana Bank. The fact is, the coalition of the Slovenian Bank has divided into two parts, those that have been saved with the tax money and somehow forgiven them, and all others. If anything, it would be most logical for those who received five billion injections of taxpayer money to manage even more closely than everyone else. The new Ljubljanska Banka is not an ATM of the coalition, although at this point it seems and looks like it. The new Ljubljana Bank is a system bank that has cost taxpayers about €3 billion over the last five years. I think this should be a big enough cause, 3 billion reasons to do business with this bank and do what needs to be done. What happened with the last shot at Nova Ljubljanska Banka two or three months ago is unacceptable. The collapse of the Slovenian state holding company has reduced the reputation of the New Ljubljana Bank and, in our opinion, absolutely also the leadership of SDH, which should take responsibility for this. Too bad the coalition doesn't see it. It is a pity that the Members who promised the most legal state before the elections, ethics, morality and anything else, you do not see what is going on. That's too bad. Perhaps by the time you realize it, it will be too late and it will require additional tax Euros to keep our banks in the state they must be in. And Nova Ljubljanska Banka is the most important in this respect. It is a pity that you do not require this in a more harsh way in the other two coalition parties, SD and DeSUS. They are not only warnings, but the fact is that the biggest government party, this is the Modern Centre Party, could not behave in such a way if you did not have your support. Today, in fact, we simply point out that since the law has already been rejected on the working body, we would point out that it would be right to check people appointed to the supervisory councils of Slovenian banks before appointment. Nothing else. In any case, they need to be checked by law, and that is why this staff fiasco and fracturing is so much greater because the fact that the people who have resigned from the supervisory board have resigned because they have not met the conditions is fundamental. And that's what the people who called them said. But what happens, unfortunately. Once again, Nova Ljubljanska banka is not an ATM of the coalition, but it is the property of all Slovenes and Slovenes. I don't know if we're gonna try these two packages again, but maybe. Because I think it is right that tax money and state property are managed as it should be, and not as the Slovenian State holding company does today under the guidance of the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u59	Good afternoon. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Group of Non-Aligned Members has tabled in a procedure to amend the law by which it would like to provide for the so-called licensing of bank supervisors. However, I would like some attention from the representatives of the Group of Members, as far as they are concerned. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we can conclude that such a prepared law could not do so. This method of implementation is not clearly defined, nor is there a transitional period. With regard to the proposed content, however, it should be pointed out that in the Banking Act it did not provide for a prior authorisation of a member of the Supervisory Board for any bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia, however, has the competence, as has already been said, to provide an ex post assessment of the suitability of a member of the supervisory board of the bank. Thus, Banka Slovenije may, in accordance with Article 57 of the Banking Act 2 to verify that a member of the supervisory board of the bank fulfils the conditions and the obligations set out in Article 55 of the same law, decide to conduct an oral interview to which a member of the supervisory board of the bank is invited to present in more detail the circumstances which BS considers appropriate for the assessment of compliance with these conditions. In accordance with Article 273 of the same law, the Bank of Slovenia is also competent to prohibit, in certain cases, the management of the function of a member of the supervisory board of the Bank. In the case of banks considered to be important institutions, including the New Ljubljana Bank, ex post evaluation of the suitability of members of the Supervisory Board is also within the competence of the European Central Bank. The Bank itself must have a system in place in accordance with the Banking Act 2 whereby, after the appointment of members of the Authority's management, it carries out the process of assessing their suitability. With regard to the proposal, the Government points out that the proposal for this law is incomplete, since it does not specify who or what procedure to issue the authorisation. These issues are essential for assessing the content of the law. We have already studied the possibility of pre-licensing members of the supervisory boards of banks in the Republic of Slovenia when adopting Banking Act 2. In this regard, it should be pointed out that in the countries to which we are so eager to compare ourselves and to sum up their legal arrangements, such as Germany and Austria, they do not know this institution. It certainly seems pointless for banks, with responsible owners in the Republic of Slovenia, to carry out licensing procedures for members of the supervisory boards. However, this must be an obligation for members of the board, and this is also the way we are regulated in the Banking Act 2. Banks in the Republic of Slovenia must have qualified supervisors, and this must be primarily the duty and right of owners, and these Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank may, upon appointment, verify that they comply with all the conditions laid down under the Banking Act, in the event that they are not resolved and immediately initiated by appropriate procedures as laid down in the Banking Act 2. On the basis of the explanation given, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre does not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act tabled by the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u61	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Commission of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the added value tax, the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 6 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. The bill is being proposed at the 23rd session of the 4th session. 5. 2016 treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups for the transfer of views. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, hello again! At the meeting of the home working body, the Desus Group identified itself against the proposal of the law. Let me briefly present the reasons. This is a very attractive measure, which, at the first ball, completely logically received a lot of support and enthusiasm for the public. And if we look deeper, the Desus Group wonders whether such a measure is economically justified at the same time. It is clear to all that anything relating to public finances, in particular the direct state budget, means that for each proposed measure we must have a duly substantiated countermeasure. However, the applicants do not say where they will make up for the EUR 3.4 million annual VAT revenue gap, but they are more focused on the social dimension of the measure, but this argument is quite weak. For the first time, because they did not offer a valid reason why they chose only a specific group of taxpayers to become part of the exemption. If we look only for a moment at equal treatment of all taxpayers, it is definitely necessary to find a systemic solution that can be applied to a larger number of stakeholders. The fact that there is an increasing number of women under the poverty threshold in Slovenia is not disputed, but the fact that it is not the only social vulnerable group and that we have a lot of work to do in regulating the social situation of the population. Apart from hygiene supplies and similar products, which are affected at monthly level, there are many of the basic necessities that we need every day regardless of the sexual structure of the population and which have an even more negative impact on the household budget. Therefore, it would be wise to consider a further reduction or even hope to propose a zero tax rate for truly essential necessities of life, such as bread. Of course, in the parliamentary group, we do not see what this would mean for the financial consequences of the country, especially if we do nothing on increased personal consumption. Yet, in this place we warn that there are more and more people, more and more pensioners, for whom bread has already become a luxury that is not available every day. Our position can be further reinforced by the fact that the reduced tax rate does not mean an automatic reduction in the retail price of a product, which is one of the most crucial elements in the formation of consumer habits. A quality standard of living of an individual is created in a way to ensure that everyone is given regular work with a decent salary, with which he can meet all his needs, at least those basic and daily. In order to improve the social situation of the female part of our population, only much more should be done than merely lowering the tax rate for hygiene products. It is necessary to focus on the provision of more jobs, their more equal treatment in the labour market, including management functions and comparable salary levels, and on the overall workload of work irrespective of gender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u63	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u64	Say good-bye to everyone again! Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act shall be followed by activities detected in other countries to include women's hygiene aids in a reduced value added tax rate. This would certainly improve the situation of women in particular, which would be felt by those who are, unfortunately, among the poorest. And given that 400,000 people in Slovenia are on the brink of poverty, this is certainly not an insignificant starting point for changing the taxation of women's hygiene products at a reduced rate of value added tax. Such thinking was finally also seen in the treatment of the parent body, where, in fact, there were no large-scale objections or strong objections. It is, however, a fact that, even through the debate on the Committee, it has been shown that, already in the existing law, these products can be classified as a category subject to a lower value added tax rate. Therefore, it is not necessary to amend the law, but a sub-legislative act that the Government can draw up, and thus avoid those issues that have been raised, in order to enforce the law in the middle of a tax period, and not least by a regulation to make it more practical to approach those who have already acquired hygiene deposits at the general tax rate. These are questions that must certainly be cleared before the transition is made. And by a regulation or a sub-legislative act adopted by the Government, this is easier and easier than by amending the law. The fact is that if this change is already made, it is also necessary to ensure that these savings, if we can say so, are not in the pockets of traders and intermediaries, but in fact consumers, due to a smaller value added tax. The representative of the Union of Consumers also pointed out that to this end it would be necessary to organise a large-scale action to expose all those traders who, instead of a reduced tax, would actually introduce a higher contribution, which they then consider to be the income of the trader, rather than a benefit to the buyer. That is why we believe that the law on the Committee has not been adopted and that there is actually a possibility that this could be regulated by a sub-law, that the Government should nevertheless examine this proposal and prepare a proposal for a solution that can reduce the cost of living for women, but at the same time look at the definition in this sub-legislative act, or that really all the articles that are classified in the lower value added tax rate are being judged and, perhaps, some would not have judged in the general tax rate and would have even balanced that gap if only a transition and enforcement were to be made for a lower tax rate for hygiene devices used by women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u65	The position of the United Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. In the United Left at the end of March we introduced a new Law on Value Added Tax, with the aim of supplementing the list of products and services with a lower VAT rate in Annex 1 to this Act, point 3 with hygiene products for women. The purpose of the reduction in the VAT rate is to ensure that the taxable products which are essential to the lives of people and currently on the list of these products, which are subject to a lower rate, are not incomprehensiblely mentioned hygiene products for women. In short, products that represent a necessary cost for women and, of course, are no luxury. We decided to submit the novel mainly from two perspectives. The first is fair taxation and emphasis on gender equality, and the second is the social situation of women. The risk of poverty in women was in 2014, 2015, even 2%, 1.5% higher than in men. Among certain groups of women, the risk of poverty is much higher. Among the unemployed women in 2015 of 56 000 634, the risk of poverty was 46.2%. The proposed novel has thus followed the principles of the social state as well as social justice. The products we wanted to place among products with lower VAT do not represent luxury for a woman, but a need accompanied by a month. The proposal also followed the example of other European countries. The last VAT rate was reduced by France and the United Kingdom, currently under way at European Union level, procedures allowing Member States to introduce a zero VAT rate for hygiene products for women. The Commission has already received the proposal and it is only a matter of time before it comes into force that the Member States can decide on a zero rate. In view of the developments in the adoption of this law, in the United Left, we ask ourselves whether the current government will even allow Slovenia to introduce a zero rate for these products. Our proposal has also received broader public support. For example, the Slovenian Consumer Union issued a petition for reducing VAT on hygiene products for women, signed by more than 6,000 people in the first three days before the amendment was discussed on the parent committee. The Slovenian Union of Consumers also called on traders to take into account the VAT reduction when changing prices and thus not to repeat the 2011 story when the children's diapers were subject to a lower rate and the traders did not take these changes into account. On the mythical committee, the novel was rejected, as we expected from the government's negative opinion. It is frightening, however, that Members and Members of the ruling coalition remained silent during the Committee's hearing, with the exception of one whose opinion was typical of this coalition, if I am cariculating. This answer can only mean that they agree without comment with the Government or that Members and Members agree intimately with the proposed amendment, but do not hope to oppose the Government. We hope that they will support us in our next steps and show that they care about people who live on the threshold of poverty. In the United Left, we do not end the story of fairer taxation in any way today, which is one of the fundamental elements of fair social regulation. Observance for a fairer distribution should, however, be greatest at a time when the risk of poverty is so high. In the United Left, we have in the past proposed changes in the income scale and higher income tax, which would allow the rich to contribute their share to carry out some of the key tasks of the social state. The coalition did not have a hearing for these proposals, and we regret to note that this time, too, there is no minimal and tangible change. The coalition appears to continue with the mantra of consolidation of public finances, which in fact means nothing more than continuing to give forgiveness to the richest and tightening the belt where there is nothing more to take, i.e. to the detriment of the weakest.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u67	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act contains a small supplement on the list of goods with a lower VAT rate, which is 9,5 %. The proposers propose that women's hygiene products be included in the list. On the basis of the reasons, the applicant cites the difficult social situation of women, ensuring gender equality and the fact that these are essential products. In New Slovenia, we strongly reject the reasons of the United Left that we need this solution because of the alleged problem of the social situation of women and ensuring gender equality. On the other hand, we fully understand the reasons that these are essential products. To compare some examples of services or goods for which 9.5 per cent of VAT has already been fixed. First of all, hairdresser services. Second, delivery of pots, seedlings, chopped flowers. Third time, smaller repair wheels, shoes, leather products and clothing. Fourth time, use of sports facilities. Fifth, window cleaning and cleaning of private households. Six, tickets for exhibitions, theatres, museums, sightseeing, cinema and music events, circuses, fairs, amusement parks, zoos and similar cultural events and sports events. The week, animal food. When reviewing goods or services for which a lower VAT rate has already been established, women's hygiene products also appear to belong to this group. Perhaps more than some services or goods already placed there. In New Slovenia we see no reason not to add women's hygiene products to this list. Christian Democrats are constantly reminding us of the tax burden in Slovenia. The bill touches only a small segment of the problem. There is also a need and, above all, a tax burden in the area of social contributions and income. In New Slovenia, we have already submitted our specific proposals for tax relief. We have tabled proposals for laws into the parliamentary procedure. The development cap, the social slippers and the unloading of unreasonably taxed Christmas houses were rejected by government parties as under the current lane. We regret that the government coalition has in recent times systematically rejected any proposals made by the opposition, particularly from the tax area. This, a respected coalition, is contrary to your promises of cooperation and ethics in politics. In New Slovenia, we therefore call on the government coalition to keep its promises and to listen to the opposition's good proposals. In our view, women's hygiene products could also be classified as essential goods without major problems in the product group with a lower value tax rate. In this respect, we have also voted on the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u69	Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you. Have a nice hello again! The proposed addition to the Value Added Tax Act is more than logical. With this proposal, VAT would be reduced for products that are urgently needed by women in life. We don't choose the same as we do with drugs. It's about women's hygiene products. The fact is that the reduction of value added tax would slightly reduce the revenue of the state budget, I mention this because a colleague from Desus said that any measure needed a countermeasure. On the other hand, it is the same in raising expenditure, and you do not have the same opinion when it comes to certain blackmailes. The easiest way for our people in Slovenia to live is if there are no taxes, but they are necessary if we want to have a social state and if we want to take care of what needs to be done. The proposed change, as I have said, is absolutely more than logical and I do not understand the coalition that such a logical change does not find the will to change things. The reason that this can also be arranged with the rulebook is of course a reason, but then you do it, not just talk. I call on you because unfortunately today we are only explaining again why this law would be good, but unfortunately it will not, I call on the United Left to once again and once again put the bill together, until the government coalition finds that this amendment is the right one and will regulate it with the rulebook or support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u71	Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! In the National Assembly, a group of Members tabled amendments to the VAT law proposing the introduction of a lower, 9.5% value added tax for selected supplies of goods, of which VAT is paid at a general rate of 22% after the current regime, for women's hygiene products. The applicant assesses that the list of supplies of goods and services subject to a lower VAT rate under the current regime does not incomprehensiblely include those hygiene products for women who do not represent luxury but vital necessities of life. In addition, these products cause higher basic cost of living to women compared to the cost of men. That's the proposal. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we assess that the proposed proposal, this is a reduction in VAT, will not save poverty. VAT is a progressive tax, which means that as much as possible is paid, there is a higher share of the tax. With regard to the reduced rate of the general tax of 22 % to 9,5 %, it is not necessary to actually lower the prices of these products for customers. Suppliers could compose reduced VAT rates by increasing margins. The pricing of goods and services on the market is not only influenced by taxes but depends mainly on market supply and demand. In addition, the proposed reduction in VAT rates would contribute to a certain reduction in public financial revenues, which would not be sustainable during the fiscal consolidation period and would be contrary to other envisaged measures to consolidate public finances already adopted or planned. However, it should be borne in mind that, in terms of ensuring the structural balance of public finances, measures can only be imposed in the short term by restructuring the public financial burden, which means that measures must be prepared in a neutral way for public finances. However, the proposed law is a more administrative burden because, on the basis of the amendment of this law and the law, VAT should be adjusted. We do not support the modern centre of the bill in the Group of the Parties. Addressing poverty is a matter of income policy and social policy, which is dealt with differently, with administrative burdens and unclear effects on the consumer and cannot be addressed by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u73	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. All in attendance, all in attendance! By means of a proposal for a value added tax law, the applicant wanted to amend the product set in Annex 1 to the Value Added Tax Act, which are taxed at a lower tax rate, by including hygiene products for women. Annex 1, which includes a list of supplies and services to which a lower VAT rate applies, lists the general definitions of a specific product group without specific products. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The existing definition of products under point 3 is therefore such that it could also include hygiene products for women under the definition of “hygienic protection products”. In Annex 1, this is a general definition, which is explained in more detail in the sub-legislative act, in the Regulation on the implementation of value added tax. At the time of the examination of the law on the homework body, the Secretary of State confirmed that the solution to the problem raised in the sub-laws was possible. This means that the definition of hygiene products as defined in the Value Added Tax Act could be defined differently in the Regulation as currently laid down. This would help to deal with the problem at stake. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we advocate for the proposed solution to be regulated in sub-legislative acts, i.e. in the Regulation on the Implementation of the Value Added Tax Act, as the European Directive and our legislation make this possible. We therefore expect the Ministry of Finance to approach the problem at the earliest possible date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u75	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure for the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is the first defensively proposed bill on amendments and additions to the law on tax evasion of accounts. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill to Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In Novi Slovenije, we are persistent in terms of optimisation or improvement of the Law on tax clearance of accounts. The second time I'm standing here in front of you, I'm asking for your support for a new bill on tax clearance of accounts. There are currently a number of entities among the taxpayers for tax clearance, from which a reasonable policy should not require the use of tax receipts. These are mainly voluntary fire companies, other smaller societies and small farms. Voluntary fire companies as humanitarian societies are largely financed by voluntary contributions and donations from legal and natural persons. The significant income of these companies is also raised from firemen’s pleasures, which are usually only once a year for a single voluntary fire company. The funds collected from these events are intended mainly for the purchase of fire-fighting equipment, which is extremely expensive, and fire-fighting vehicles. It is precisely because of one such event that, after the current law, voluntary firefighting companies are also liable for online cash registers. The cost and administrative burden of tax receipts is simply too high for a voluntary fire company. Firefighting companies do not have employees and nor are they qualified to handle these devices, and the penalties for irregularities at risk are high. We are threatened by a reduction in the number of charity events, which will result in a reduction in the revenues of firefighters, all of which will be detrimental to human security and property. In addition to voluntary fire companies, all other companies are also committed. The law expressly prohibits the establishment of a society whose purpose is to create profits. They're companies and they're acting non-profit. The company can only carry out that complementary gainful activity related to its purpose and objectives. The purpose of society's operation is not to compete on the market, but to bring citizens together in different areas of social life. Companies are a key factor in promoting the participation of citizens at civil society level. The vitality of social life in the local community is the concern of societies that promote activities in areas such as culture, sport, humanitarianism, science and so on. In Slovenia, for example, more than 3,000 societies have been set up to help people, more than 3 000 800 cultural artistic societies and more than 8 000 sports and recreational societies. The introduction of tax registers for smaller companies represents a disproportionate difficulty in their operation, which forces them to restrict or even suspend their activities. In particular, smaller companies do not have the appropriate financial and administrative capacity to ensure the operation of tax warehouses. Their introduction, however, makes it disproportionately difficult to obtain financial resources. As an example, let us mention a mountain society that organizes a mountain trip for its members once a year. Such a company will have to establish a system of tax clearance of accounts as a result of one mountain trip. That doesn't make any sense. The same applies to all other companies operating in different fields. Such a measure is not reasonable and is not proportionate. The introduction of tax registers for companies makes it difficult to connect citizens and further increases social apathy. The reasons why the State may not be reasonable on the basis of restrictions on the operation and acquisition of funds in society. The introduction of tax boxes for small farms in the pursuit of complementary activities also entails a disproportionate burden on them. The complementary activity of farms often means preserving different traditions, products, important handicrafts and other skills. It increases the supply of local products and consequently enriches the lives of our local community, while giving farmers the opportunity to further develop and transfer knowledge to new generations. As a result of the introduction of tax boxes for small farms, we can expect the abandonment of complementary activities and consequently a significant reduction in creativity in the local field. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, Christian Democrats propose that, for the first time, farms carrying out complementary activities with less than 15,000 euros of annual income, secondly, all voluntary firefighting companies and thirdly, other companies with less than 10,000 euros of annual income will be burdened by the use of tax receipts. In addition, we propose to abolish the sanctioning of customers who do not take over or retain the account for the goods or services purchased immediately after leaving the premises. In our view, a penalty of €40 is an unreasonable intervention in the position of buyers and consumers. Colleagues and colleagues, we propose and ask that we open up a high-quality debate, a constructive debate and a second reading of the law to optimize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u77	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Matei Vraničnik Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u78	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The government's proposed amendment to the Law on tax clearance of accounts opposes and proposes to the National Assembly that you find that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We introduced tax clearances four months ago. The first partial data analysis for the period from January to the end of March is known. This analysis shows the first positive effects, which, of course, cannot yet be fully confirmed or said to be the only effects, since for more than those who are liable to confirm accounts, the effect will not be shown until the following year, as it is for persons who are not taxable in the value added tax system. The basic regulation, i.e. the Law on tax clearance of accounts, introduced, in accordance with the origins for the preparation of the law and the requirements of the interested public, the obligation to tax confirmation of invoices for all debtors who are obliged to issue invoices for the goods sold or for services provided in accordance with the rules on value added tax and receive payments in cash. Exceptions are narrowly defined, in a way where control itself can be carried out on the basis of other information. The proposed law to exempt voluntary fire companies, companies whose income is less than EUR 10 000 last year and farms from carrying out complementary activities, provided that the revenues of the previous financial year do not exceed EUR 15 000 under this Title, would still require those entities to issue an invoice in accordance with the rules governing value added tax, i.e. for each supply of goods or services rendered. The exemption would apply only to tax clearance of accounts. The question is whether this exemption is justified taking into account the origins at which the law is prepared and taking into account the principle of equal treatment of the debtors in the same or similar situation. At the same time, we must also ask ourselves whether, for all the entities mentioned by the applicant and which he wishes to exempt from the validation of accounts, the right administrative obstacle is only the validation of accounts or perhaps just the fact that the account has to be issued. In view of the fact that the fundamental administrative obstacle is the very obligation to issue accounts in some cases, we have prepared an amendment to the Regulation implementing the Value Added Tax Act, which aims at eliminating this administrative burden for certain smaller debtors, but at the same time does not unduly distinguish business entities from one another. In particular, small business operators have repeatedly pointed out that the economic activity that companies and similar non-profit organisations can carry out under the applicable rules can constitute unfair competition for them. The questions relating to the additional activity on the farm are also addressed by a new proposal from the Cadastrian Income Law, which will be discussed below. If I conclude, we estimate that the proposed law does not address the administrative obstacles of the debtors it mentions in an appropriate manner and that these debtors can be better dealt with by other measures, while the comprehensive amendment of the Law on tax clearance of accounts will make sense once the system of clearance of accounts itself is operational and we will also have a comprehensive analysis on the table of the effects of this system, which we are now introducing during the introductory period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u79	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thanks again for saying that. We are once again confronted with the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts, and the aim of the proposed laws is in particular to set exceptions. In all the cases we have considered so far, we have always drawn attention to the fact that it will only be possible in May to make one of the first assessments of what is actually happening in this area of tax clearance of accounts since the introduction of tax bills in January of this year. Some data that could be traced to the media by the Ministry of Finance show that those using the tax box paid more than €19.8 million in value added tax and that around 22,000 new jobs were concluded with taxpayers using the tax box. As a result, 4.8 million social security contributions were also paid. This is certainly the data on which it is necessary to discuss and assess the purpose of the introduction of tax clearance of accounts. Surely there is a lack in this part of the work relating to the debtors, in terms of whether and to what extent they will actually be able to carry out this activity due to additional employment, let us say, onward, which will simply not be able to do so. In particular, areas that are less accessible, especially border areas or high-mountain areas, are exposed here, and this is certainly one of those issues that will need further clearance, data collection and then final decision on how to actually improve the system of tax clearance of accounts. Several proposals to simplify tax procedures have already been put forward by the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and a further amendment to the rules relating to value added tax are an example of the burden of taxpayers. Above all, it is also important to seek solutions for complementary activities on the farm, so that there will be as few administrative obstacles as possible. So in parallel, we can say that the solutions are already showing, but on the other hand, it is important to note that there is still a limit to which accounts should not be tax-confirmed, then, of course, this limit should be applied to all those who are committed in terms of the level of traffic, otherwise, in a very short time, we will have a constitutional assessment and, of course, a recast of the law due to undetermined solutions. In particular, due to the lack of data collected to date in the functioning of the validation of accounts, we have rejected all the proposals that have been tabled, similar to today's proposal, by actually seeing a solution after the analysis has taken a serious step towards taking all these most exposed facts into account and, of course, preparing appropriate solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u81	Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you, President, and thank you very much for all of you! For the third time, we have before us a proposal for a new bill on tax clearance of accounts. It must be said that these novels address a real problem, but all the solutions that have been proposed so far have been too weak or too demogic. Although today's proposal does not solve the situation in a perfectly appropriate way, by deploring those who have been completely unreasonably hampered by the introduction of tax boxes, it is going in the right direction, so we will support further consideration of the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax attestation of Accounts that we have before us today. We supported the introduction of the tax registers in the light of the fight against the grey economy in the United Left, but you have proved to be completely inanimate in the implementation and implementation of the law. It is clear that it is the Ministry of Finance's task to eliminate the most obvious anomalies in the grey economy and to prepare solutions for other more complex problems. However, despite warnings and calls, nothing has moved, and a few days ago we have received information that the rules on the implementation of the VAT Law should be amended to remedy the situation. This will take at least six months for the Ministry of Finance, together with FURS, to eliminate at least the most in the eyes of the current anomaly. The prevention of the grey economy is important not only from a public financial point of view but also because of the easier prevention of social dumping, where workers and workers pay the highest price. An up-to-date system of recording and traceability can be effective and also an understanding of solutions. Otherwise, the results show positive effects, which are lower than expected from a public financial perspective, as the Ministry collected 14 million additional revenue into the budget in the first four months. At the same time, there are 9 000 800 employees or registered in social security, which, in addition to economic growth, can also be attributed to tax clearance of accounts. These are positive consequences, but at the same time, as I have already mentioned, many anomalies of this regime have shown themselves. For example, from the beginning of the law, financial management has interpreted itself considerably, as in the scandalous case of school bazaars, where it was clear that voluntary contributions were to be collected rather than to be bought and sold in the right sense. Furthermore, FURS treated farmers with complementary activities very differently and arbitrarily. At the same time, we have about 15,000 companies in Slovenia that rarely issue an account. A long time ago, the Olympic Committees of Slovenia, the Center of NGOs, the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia and the Mountain Association of Slovenia presented an initiative to adapt the tax certification system. This initiative was created in response to the problems faced by small local societies due to new obligations. Tax payers cause a number of problems, and the state has no benefit. In particular, companies acting in the public or general interest should be highlighted and should be found, as soon as possible, a permanent solution or exempted or exempted from the system. These societies, we are talking about firefighting, retirement, humanitarian, mountain societies and so on, perform important and very socially beneficial functions, often even those that the country itself should take care of. It is therefore totally inappropriate for the State to burden them with the validation of accounts or to burden them with the implementation of the non-life law. The exceptions set out in the New Slovenia proposal are a solid basis, although the limits under which the companies and farms carrying out the complementary activity are too high according to our assessment. Between €10 and €15 000 would make sense to halve, bringing us closer to the revisions of the rules to be coordinated inter-resortmentally. It should be noted that fiscal measures should not only be regarded as filled-up cash registers or budgets, as taxes have more meaning and broader consequences. We must not overburden a small sector that cannot achieve as much productivity as a larger enterprise. At the same time, it must be said that the small sector in our country is already one way or another too large and we are closer to the peripheral countries than to the central sector in relation to the relationship between the large and small sectors. The second part of the proposal is the abolition of a fine for a buyer of goods or a recipient of a service who does not receive or retain an account. As we have warned at the time of the adoption of the law, the penalty can be very disproportionate, especially in cases of small amounts in accounts. From this point of view, it would also make sense to consider changes. In almost two years, the government of Mira Cerar in the fiscal field has not made any proposals that would more justly spread the tax burden or more effectively prosecute tax crime and aggressive tax optimisation, which has been revealed by recent Panama Papers. In other words, until now, the Mira Cerar government has dealt mainly with small fish, and in large fish, it is clear that it continues to wink at both eyes. This is a warning that we are giving in the re- debate on this law. I repeat, however, that the regulations that are before us today on the decommissioning, regulation of tax warehouses make sense. Some adjustments would be needed, but this is a matter of second reading, so that in the first reading we will support the proposal ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u83	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the floor. For her, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u84	Dear, lovely greetings to all! Last year, the government coalition decided to burden the Slovenian economy and agriculture with tax registers. With this inappropriate action, she has done something even more unreasonable. It has also imposed tax duties on a number of other organisations which fall into completely different categories than economic operators. The current government law requires voluntary fire companies to set up tax registers. Many firefighters once a year organize fireflies, where citizens collect funds for the purchase of fire extinguishers and other equipment for our firefighters. The law on such cases requires them to establish a system of tax attestation of accounts; otherwise, the State threatens firefighters even with penalties. In Novi Slovenija we generally oppose unnecessary bureaucracy. The introduction of bureaucracy in the area of fundraising for firefighters is extremely irrational and unacceptable. Tax checkouts are evidently government thanks to firefighters for their work, effort, and service to people. The current regulation of this area is not normal, so the Christian Democrats are proposing a reasonable solution by means of this law – fire companies should be free of the use of tax money. However, with the Law on tax clearance, the Government has made it difficult not only for voluntary firefighting companies but also for many other companies that are difficult to afford to set up tax registers. Societies are legally non-profit, but societies often care for the creativity and vitality of social life in our local communities. For a better idea of what government law means for smaller societies, we can give some examples. The local choir of singers must introduce a system of tax clearance for the sale of tickets at its annual concert. According to government arrangements for the organisation of the trip, the Mountain Society must introduce a system for tax clearance of accounts for its members. The collecting society must introduce tax records to view its exhibition. A small folklore company must introduce a system of tax clearance for the sale of tickets for its performance. The same applies to all other companies with similar activities. The government has also burdened small farms with the introduction of tax registers, which, through complementary activities, retain their creativity and differing knowledge. Christian Democrats defend the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy and other burdens for Slovenian farms as well. We need to enable small farms to deal smoothly with complementary activities, which often mean preserving different traditions, products, important handicrafts and other skills. In Novi Slovenija, we want to maintain the offer of local products that enrich the lives of our local communities by removing tax receipts for complementary activities up to €15 000. At the same time, this small farm makes it easier to further develop and transfer skills to new generations. The government, by law, threatens consumers with fines of up to €40 if they do not bring an account after they leave trade. In New Slovenia, we believe that this regime is disproportionate and therefore we also propose to abolish sanctioning. With this bill from the government tax system, Christian Democrats want to abolish some of the most unreasonable provisions. The bill, which is before us, is also supported by a number of local communities, to list some of them: Municipality of Črenšovci, Municipality of Slovenj Gradec, Municipality of Škofljica, Municipality of Ormož, Municipality of Rogatec, Municipality of Šmarje pri Jelšah, Municipality of Loška dolina, Municipality of Rogaška Slatina, Municipality of Šoštanj, Municipality of Pivka, Municipality of Kamnik, Municipality of Lukovica, Municipality of Železniki, Municipality of Ribnica and support will still be available. We hope that the congregations will also be joined by all the Parliamentary groups of the National Assembly and will be supported by law. In Novi Slovenija, we will of course support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u85	Mr Tillen Bozič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! As far as the Law on tax clearance of accounts is concerned, we have already talked about it very much in this mandate, and we have also discussed, somehow, various solutions, both before the introduction and now, when the law is in force and also in practice, somehow see what the effects of it are. In this regard, the Minister of Finance, as well as already, I think, at the beginning of this meeting, Minister Marble, presented some of the introductory views on what this law has brought to the tax box and to what some of the other objectives of this law have also been. And here are the numbers, let's say, interesting. We have income, social contributions, we have a higher VAT inflow – and these are somehow the direct effects that can be measured, somehow removed from the platform of other data and found out what they are. It is also worth noting, as I said in the introduction, that this is incomplete data. And in the SMC, we are pleased, at least in the previous positions, to say, that data-based equipment is being designed for some future substantive solutions in this area. And it is certainly important to note here that, somehow next year, we can also expect data on those who are not taxable, given that we now have data for monthly and quarterly taxpayers for VAT, but for all others somehow not, and there is not yet any data based on the indirect effects of this law, that some tax inspectors are being redistributed, work on the ground, somehow better, at least so we promised ourselves, organisations, given that there are over 180 inspectors who previously dealt with cash traffic in some of the narrowest terms, and that much of it is now taken over by a financial administration server. We can start dealing with more difficult cases, including those that are somewhat obvious about rainforests. That's one topic that's interesting. This law does not directly save, but indirectly helps to resolve it, which is also important. If we go to the concept. Here, in particular, I, or the Group of Members, see the difference in the approach that we are taking here, a certain view of tax policy, which, by its actions, must provide, say, neutrality, how the debtors will behave or, if it encourages them to do certain things, it must be extremely thoughtful, targeted, monitored and with all the analytics involved. And what does that mean? Basically, if I were to make it very simple, it would be somehow in this direction that firefighters should remain firefighters because they are good at it and do well, that farmers should remain farmers and that volunteers should also remain volunteers. And what does that come out of? In particular, from the fact that when we deal with the conditions under which someone will deal with the activity and here we speak many times, or in particular in those cases where they interfere with market activity, it is necessary to align these conditions somehow, that we are all equal before the law, that we also regulate a level playing field and that this is not a possible search here, we might call it the search for an election base, but, above all, to seek solutions in accordance with the objective of the law, in accordance with the tax and other policy objective of this country. As far as this thoughtful approach, which somehow applies to us, we said we would wait for the data, we have the first data, we have a lot more coming, and in our opinion, we need to look for some solutions that are already based on the design of the law, and we are looking at some other legislation. Because, once again, as we have said several times, the Law on tax clearance of accounts is a technical law and defines only that when someone is obliged to issue an account for a transaction, it is also electronically confirmed by the financial administration. All the other things, you know, that was in a public debate, this has already been concluded, one amendment, which also concerns those you mention, the proponent who deals with societies, in our opinion, in a perhaps slightly more tactful way, is about these societies, how to help them, one-off events, I don't know if it is a shagra, whether it is a dangerous thing, whether it is a fireman's fun at an annual level, while meeting some additional conditions that are not a matter of competition on the market, but really to preserve some tradition, some event that is in our area for each region, we can say, a little different from you to yourself, that it is somehow preserved. And that's what he's trying to follow. For this reason, for example, there is some flat-rate solution, "but now up to 10,000 euros all out," perhaps a little inappropriate and needs a step forward. That is why today's debate, despite having many of them, is welcome, because we can face our views and see how we can better resolve this matter. As far as farmers are concerned. Our approach is more in the direction of what we understand as a basic agricultural activity or something as complementary, and then indirectly, through another law, it influences whether accounts are being made and whether or not accounts are being made, whether they need to be fiscalized or not. Furthermore, some operational aspect is described as how to simplify the use of this system for the undertaking. I think that it is certainly worth commending the Financial Administration, their approach and commitment, including awareness and so on, as well as the provision of some basic infrastructure that can help companies and everyone else, we already have a mini-tax register, the plan is to develop or upgrade this application to the extent that everyone can have it on their mobile phones, tables and the like, thereby further widening the user circle and the usefulness of this application, because it seeks simplicity, cost reduction and in fact that the system is as friendly as possible to the debtors as possible, if something needs to be fulfilled, let it be as much as possible and beneficial for the debtors. Furthermore, there was an additional issue regarding operationality when we talked about this – it was said, for certain areas. We were also briefed in the Group of Members on the proposals of the Mountain Alliance and some others. There it was exposed that, for example, 20 cottages in Slovenia were not covered by the internet. It is by no means forbidden that we should not be using the tax box already, and let us say this to those who are not bound in a paper sense, but in an electronic sense. It is true, however, that it is a little uncomfortable to come to an area where transport can be fiscalised in two days and, of course, to consider whether there are changes in deadlines. Because of the fact that there is no doubt at least one person from each such hut in five, ten, fifteen days somehow reaches a point where there is at least some coverage with the Internet, with the data relatively small and a relatively weak link sufficient to carry out the whole fiscalisation process. As it is said, in these matters, as far as the SMC Group is concerned, we are particularly concerned by some content, in this way also looking for some solutions based on content that have some serious justification behind or more thoroughly, and such a precautionary approach as we have had so far, as regards exceptions to the functioning of the system, the openness of the system, and so on, we will also represent it further. Let me now touch on this proposal that we have received. It is true that we have already highlighted a lot of things, highlighted them, but, nevertheless, given that many of these are repeated, which has already been demented or otherwise explained, it is still true to go through. If I start at the beginning, the Law on tax clearance of accounts, the legal basis for mandatory use on the line of tax warehouses practically for all taxpayers operating in cash. We've already found that many times, it doesn't exactly hold. We have also found that Slovenia foresees or under our legislation certain exceptions arising from other laws, not necessarily from the Law on tax clearance of accounts, and the fact is that more conditions have to be met here or, we can say, two. So it must be a cash transaction by definition, which is in the law, and an account must also be put out, it must be this duty. And then there's a fiscalization. If we're talking, say, about donations, about memberships, if we're talking about raising some pensioner society's money to buy tickets to a theater show, then fiscalisation isn't going to happen here yet. As far as this is concerned, it is still worth a little warning. It is further pointed out that someone who would organize such an event once a year must purchase all this mega-Romanian equipment and so on. It is now up to the event, depending on how they are organised, in some cases they may be able to help the association of associations or some umbrella organisation, in other cases rents may be used, in third cases, if they are smaller, there is still a bound account book or there is not necessarily a purchase. It is said that some proportionality in this regard can be determined somehow by the debtor himself, which makes it possible for him to do so by law. Then the proposaler wrote here that the meaning of the operation of societies is not entry and competition in the market, but that the integration of citizens in various areas of social life, which we fully agree with in the SMC, we also encourage, we listen to, and many of us have already met with any association or societies, with representatives etc., with various different citizens or debtors who have been affected by it, this change, which may concern them with certain issues, we have also discussed with them, but the fact is that, regardless of the fact that someone enters the market, must, as has already been said, be dealt with under the same conditions. So if someone decides to go into the market sphere, they have to be equal to the others. And here again it is worth noting that this information is still emerging, perhaps because of insufficient information, when some consider it necessary to exhibit, I don't know, invoices in certain situations where there is no need to carry out fiscalisation, which is not necessary. This is what we need to continue to talk about, to stress over and over again, as I said before, donations, memberships, direct transfers to transaction accounts, subsidies from municipalities, etc. Or, like I said before, for the purchase, if some company decides to go see the show at the Opera Ballet and choose the money for those tickets and then pay the tickets. There's no fiscalization here. And then, here's an interesting statement, which was that the mountain society, which for its members once a year organizes a mountain trip, has to set up a system for tax clearance of accounts because of one such event. It's not like that. Depending on how extensive this is, they will decide for themselves what to do about it. Finally, they still have the option of using the bound account book. As I have already said, this upgrade is in preparation for the mini-tax register, which will also provide for them to be able to use another way. After all, if they have members, they are likely to have some e-mail addresses. Slovenian legislation has had this possibility for years that someone can only issue an account in electronic form and in such a case they will probably use the use of, I don't know, a mobile phone, those applications, will normally display these accounts, send them an email account so they don't need to use a printer. In fact, we have an app that is free, we have a phone that they already use, most are already smart today, at least after research, and it can be bypassed or resolved in a legally compatible way. Let's move on to those sanctions. Here we still stand in the SMC's position that this triangle is between the financial administration, the one who sells something, and the one who buys something has to be stimulated in some way that it's closed. Since we do not have a problem in Slovenia in this area, I do not think so. We have this problem. This problem needs to be addressed and this problem needs to be addressed in some way. Why? Because you are probably going to be some MEPs themselves, and a lot of people have found that by the time you get somewhere, you may be drinking coffee, you say you can pay or please have an account, it has already had an impact on whether you will receive an account for your payment or not. I'm sorry. Here we still consider this provision, which has sometimes been in force with the first VAT law, that it is important and that something is of a symbolic nature, that is, a violation that costs you, if it is not just a reminder, which the inspector can do, but if it really decides that you are an offender and that he will give you a penalty, if you pay in eight days, it is 20 Euros in relation to anything, given that there is probably an inspector deciding here on the basis that there is a multiple offender or someone who is very evident in the whole of the reverie, it may also be true that, in this way, he knows in the subconscious that there is also something else than a bad look if there is a violation. Often there are also various excuses, probably sometimes there were not so many, now that someone has run out of paper, that they may not be working at that moment a printer to bring later, come pick up the bill tomorrow, etc. So it's a culture that's also addressed by this and trying to change in some way. And in our view, this account is still appropriate with some symbolic punishment or criminal provision. If we go any further to specific articles, I have, as you yourself said, four points. One is about voluntary fire companies, and I wouldn't be overly losing words here, given that we've had a similar proposal the last time, we've also justified why we think so. The question still arises why you would be separated from those companies where you have a second indent: "Friends whose incomes in the past business year are less than EUR 10,000". In principle, it is a comparable situation. So, in a way, we go to see that the market is a market and that it is somehow separate or that those in a group are special should be on comparable terms. After considering farmers, as I have already mentioned in the parliamentary group, we are also thinking about this intensively, and we are also working on a law governing cadastral income. There are, in particular, some substantive changes concerning where certain activities that were previously complementary are going, so to speak, berries and so on, that then there is a debate going on and that we see whether there are some solutions here that can be realized and do not present any problems in terms of control, in terms of commitment and in some respect of putting someone in a substantially different position. But I've already said something about shoppers' misdemeanor. On the basis of what I have presented in the opinion of the Group of Members, we do not support the proposal put forward by the proposer. We always support the debate, as has already been said, because the solutions identified will have to be adopted, perhaps not in such a way, because there is always a need to make, on the basis of information that has to be demonstrated from practice, what to do, but not in such a way that some deviations from the objectives that we have set ourselves or that some exceptions would lead to market distortions and sometimes even call for inappropriate behaviour of the debtors. Large differences in taxation in tax procedures, and so on, may also be some stimulus for an action that is not desirable. And that's exactly what was meant earlier when I said that firefighters should remain firefighters, volunteer volunteers and so on. We are primarily concerned with finding solutions and not necessarily, as it sometimes seems, a particular election base is being sought here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u87	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, Members, Secretary of State, welcome again! As has been pointed out many times before, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we opposed the introduction of tax registers because they do not solve what they should – they do not save the grey economy. This simply means that those who did not issue invoices prior to the introduction of the tax registers do not issue them after the introduction of the tax registers do not issue them today. It is also due to the introduction of tax registers that they have not registered their activities: what is the problem is those who constitute unfair competition to those who are actively engaged in their activities. At this point, I might ask the distinguished Secretary of State how much of the grey economy has decreased due to the introduction of the tax registers. That is, this reduction in the grey economy was one of the main purposes of the introduction of the tax registers. According to the Financial Administration’s assessment, the number of taxpayers who would use these tax rebates should be somewhere between 60 and 80 000 before the introduction of the tax registers. The number of debtors and the tax attestation of the invoices, i.e. the fact that the tax warehouses were also used, is at 13. 5. 2016 amounted to 46 thousand 527. So it's a much lower number. And what's going on since we've had the tax receipts? Many micro, many small businesses still use bound accounts. Some companies, especially independent entrepreneurs, have stopped their business and some are simply not doing business with cash anymore. There's a lot of them. In particular, for small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, tax rebates are additional, for the first time, financial burdens and, secondly, administrative additional burdens. And it is right to re-emphasize the uneven development of Slovenia, which does not allow everyone to have the same coverage and access to the Internet, so that phones and mobile applications are completely useless. I'm really wondering why there are entrepreneurs in these areas that are a little bit different on the start, and I'm going to say a very subjugating position. Why? In fact, they have to use bound accounts anyway. And then here we have companies operating on the ground doing their job. Probably when they make a deal with the buyer, they don't ask the buyer whether you have, I don't know, an individual mobile operator or have a signal that I can actually issue a tax invoice or not. So in any case, they must be prepared to do so and actually deal with this problem if they want to or not. Tax registers have obviously affected civil society visibly, given the number of writings. Who are we thinking here? Here we think of individuals, here we think of citizens and citizens who, through societies, participate in these different groups. Firefighting companies were not the only ones affected, firefighting companies were largely affected, all societies were affected, and this could be cultural societies, humanitarian societies, sports societies and so on. Today, if they want to organise an event and, of course, collect an entry fee, they must issue an invoice. And of course, the tax office is not a negligible amount, but the use of mobile phones is not possible everywhere because there is no equal coverage with the internet everywhere. As a matter of fact, you've suffered a lot from firefighting. As has already been said, once a year they organize a firehouse, they do much to help you. There they acquire individual means by which they then purchase essential equipment, either cars or something else. This is equipment for all of us citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we all need it. And believe me, many times it is those who are first in place when we need their help. In a way, you have hurt them by introducing these tax boxes, of course, but I believe they have already told you. You have also affected a number of farmers, who have been very often told to help themselves with complementary activities, so that they will be able to survive without it, and today these farmers, of course, need tax receipts. Two days ago, the Ministry of Finance presented the results of the first quarter and the first effects of the tax registers. Of course, they are very pleased with the results, they have obtained additional taxes and contributions for about 20 million euros. I really care how unilateral the ministry can see only higher revenues from taxes and contributions, but it does not see what costs these tax boxes have incurred on one side of the economy itself, and not least what costs they themselves have had to set up, which of course is not negligible. One is the one cost that the Ministry has incurred and the other is the monthly maintenance costs and, last but not least, the cost of salaries, the various travel costs, the maintenance of cars that tax inspectors on the ground must have. At this point, I really wonder what is the cost-benefit analysis at the end when we compare both sides, revenue and expenditure on the other side. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we still believe that the tax remittances have proved to be harmful, that the debtors are subject to additional financial costs and, of course, to disproportionate administrative burdens. And that is why, of course, we tabled a law in the parliamentary procedure not long ago that we wanted to abolish the tax bills, but this proposal at the April meeting of the National Assembly, unfortunately, did not receive support. Today we have a proposal that sets out exceptions. It lays down exemptions for companies and lays down exemptions for farms carrying out complementary activities. While we believe that this is very positive in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, it is not enough, as tax collectors would simply have to be abolished. Nevertheless, this proposal for a law before us today will be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u89	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, for which Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Once again, a nice hello to everyone! The subject of tax registers has become a common practice of meetings of the National Assembly. The opposition proposals for amending and supplementing the Law on tax clearance of accounts are in line. It is obvious that, by chance or more deliberately, the speakers have heard all the debate so far, because, as we have already said, Members and Members of the Desus Group believe in the effective collection of public duties with a view to greater traceability. This objective can only be achieved through the consistent use of tax warehouses, but there is no need to further explain what more funds are for social transfers. Since we did not have the opportunity to make precise numbers available, as coalition Members, we have asked for understanding and patience so that we can serve with concrete and precise results of the full analysis. The applicants did not have that much patience and almost identical proposal for a law at the end of April reopened into a legislative procedure. The analysis, as promised, is well known. Data are expected to be positive and show up in increased traffic and, of course, in higher VAT payments. Almost 5 % of VAT was paid in February-April 2016. The taxpayers who use the tax box and who have paid the VAT bill have shown almost EUR 20 million more net VAT payments and 7 % more than in the same period last year. In the Desus Group, we took our time and listened very carefully to all those who are experiencing some unpleasantness in the current solution. These are primarily pension societies, for which a solution has been found in the meantime. In doing so, let me remind you that in the Desus Group we have been in favour of initiatives, various societies and NGOs, which have always supported government efforts to effectively collect public benefits. The opposition was felt only with regard to an inappropriate measure of compulsory clearance of accounts for small local societies, so their margin for exceptions stopped at 10,000 euros. Therefore, the issuance of accounts remains a steady activity of taxpayers. We estimate that the government proposal to set an exemption margin of EUR 5,000 per year is a much more realistic and fair solution, especially if we want to fully achieve the purpose of the law and include as many taxpayers as possible under the principle of equal treatment. We also agree with the Ministry of Finance and, at the same time, we appeal that all the problems identified by small taxpayers be regulated as soon as possible in the amendments to the Regulation implementing the Added Value Tax Act. With the proposed solutions for certain exceptions, we will be removed from the Desus Group by a great deal of doubt, which may have occurred to us in the context of the operation of tax warehouses in practice. And if we have given slightly more attention to the exception, we are so much more critical of the second proposed solution, which foresees the abolition of penalties for buyers. In the Desus Group we will reject the proposal for a novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u91	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The speaker has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with colleagues! I am grateful for the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, and I am particularly pleased that, above all, the seats of the coalition parliamentary groups in Parliament have been filled more than when I presented our marriage solutions on behalf of the proposer, because at that time only around 5,6% of the coalition members in the Chamber, so I have been asking myself all the time that I have been in the speaker's office whether the National Assembly has already been disbanded. Well, thank God, it's not, so our marriage has a few more options to succeed. I thank all those who have expressed your support, but I am somewhat disappointed or disappointed in Novi Slovenija, we are disappointed at the position of the largest Group of the Party of the Modern Centre presented by colleague Tilen Bozič. I have to say, I just don't understand what it means to have a fireman be a fireman, a volunteer be a volunteer, and a farmer be a farmer. But I can also understand, I can understand that, indeed, the firefighter should be a firefighter, that all the equipment and all the costs of education, the competition will be paid by the state or by the local community, which does not have the money, because the state does not give it enough money. If that's how it goes, okay, then somehow I agree to lose some of the Slovenian culture, so I call the firemen's cheers; maybe you'll fuck with me, and I'm ready for that. Perhaps those, ladies and gentlemen who live in an urban centre where you have professional firefighting companies, do not have so many contacts with voluntary firefighting companies. We, who are in the countryside, where firefighters are actually about 100 years old, where, in particular, in my village exactly 80 years ago we built an architecturally extremely rich firehouse, with a high tower, this firehouse is of course not functional today, but it contains a museum collection that we have arranged there. That you will not tell me that we have proposed this law because of the voluntary fire company Žižka, from which I come – no, because we already had the firehouse, you know, on Florian's, because you probably know that Saint Florian is the protector of firefighters. I'd be happy to see Minister Maramor as a fireman's attorney, and even the biggest government party. It's not my fault if it is – again, in my home village, where I live, where there are 600 people and we have young people who are crazy about firefighting. Four fire squads, we have fire squads at the state competition. Comrade Tillen Christmas, calculate the amount of travel costs, the sandwiches will be made at home themselves, to be understood, because they will not be there, they do not have money to order food there or on the road somewhere, on the highway, so the sandwiches are 0 euros. Travel costs are calculated by you, Google will show you how many kilometers a bus or two buses or three buses have to transport to bring these teams and fans to Primorsko, where, as you know, you will be a state firefighter. Count these costs, it's a competition, it's not equipment. I thank the Secretary of Defense for this place, who has given our girls some money for the new needy firemen's uniforms. Let the firefighter be a firefighter, this is not the right thing to do for the new year, which is tradition, to carry around every household calendars, you don't know it, and so you wonder and laugh In the countryside we work that way because we walk the earth, you know, we walk the earth, and it's time for the ruling coalition to go down to the small people as it is said. [[…]] I was delighted to read the press release where Prime Minister Cerar said: "Open dialogue with civil society is one of the fundamental principles of the government's operation." But in fact, it's a very different matter. I say that I intended to prepare Mr Marble for the organizational committee for the preparation of the fire party, where I could see that 50 people on average work for a week, a whole week, also take leave to prepare three tents and all the necessary to see how life runs in the countryside, specifically in this matter, specifically in voluntary firefighting societies. Since I have a feeling that we are, or that some of you are too far from real life, and therefore I do not understand, I do not understand that you are ordering tax receipts to volunteer fire companies. And when I heard a presentation of DeSUS Group's position, I'm afraid they think it's either a tax relief or a suspension of writing accounts or I don't know what it is. No, the fire companies want to pay the tax, it's just a waiver that they won't be liable to the tax box. That's all this is about. And here, of course, are mountain societies. Yes, my friend Christmas, look, last year I was in one of the mountain huts, and they asked me not to introduce the Treasury for them. And they told me exactly what that means when you have to go down to the valley, fiscalize the accounts. Yeah, what do you think there are ten people in this mountain cabin? There's one who cooks tea that serves and so on, maybe two. If this one goes down or every other day or whatever, I don't know, it doesn't work. You are here ex cathedra theoretical matters very well explained, but unfortunately life is practical, there is no theory in life. You also said that there was still a need to think that solutions were necessary, different. That's what I'm happy for. How much longer do we have to think, give, invite us, and so in detail we say that I am almost a little embarrassed to talk about such details in Parliament, as well as yesterday, say when we talked about what a bike is and what a bike with an auxiliary engine, and it was obviously necessary to explain it yesterday evening. So now I also explain what needs to be done to introduce the tax registers on the firehouse. That you must have a router and thank God that you have a firehouse with a high tower, on the tower you give a router, in the meantime you draw quite a few cables, a few hundred meters, that then you have two tax checkouts over the wifi for entry and 10, 15 cash registers for the bar if you have a larger fireman's fun. Do you know what the budget is? The budget for such a firehouse is about 8,000 euros. Now, how many syringes do you have to sell to get it back, and then something remains for the firefighters? 50 people worked voluntarily, colleague Christmas, all week long, on the day of joy and the day before 100 people. They're firefighters, and they're volunteers, in one person. I wanted to explain these things to you in such a very plastic way. I hope now that understanding will be greater. Suzana Lepi Šimenko's colleague pointed to a real problem, the real problem of Slovenia's non-covery with the Internet. Where is this Digital Slovenia strategy now? I know it's written. When does she get to the National Assembly? Where's the realisation? We need 300, 400 million to cover Slovenia. If that's what the tax check will give you, okay, then I'm in charge of the tax box. But 300 to 400 million should indeed be an annual purchase for the introduction of tax boxes and the limitation of the grey economy, as calculated by a very well-known tax advisor, according to my assessment of the best, Mr Mag. Ivan Simič, now more appreciated by other countries than at home, and we know him at home according to his project called Information Income Calculation. If you want to introduce some legislation and say in a coalition contract, it's an instrument, it's a system with which we want to limit the grey economy and then you go to assess the extent of the gray economy in this country, then you come to this number, 300 that 400 million should be higher if the matter were to come, but obviously it's going somewhere, it didn't go. However, it is waterproof in voluntary firefighting societies, cultural societies, pension societies, mountain societies, these small ones. Here we have a problem with these small farms that are maturing and making some handmade products. You know, if someone's gonna be rich, Hallelujah, really. And we are only talking about those farms that have a complementary activity of less than 15,000, the value is less than 15,000 euros per year. These are things where in New Slovenia we would actually like the coalition to put at least five percent of this energy into thinking about this proposal, as we have put it, when we have talked to organisations, to people, to visit the field, to tax advisers and so on. We ask you to set aside a percentage of this energy to think about, but to do something, go to the people. We were sent here by people. We have to work for the people. And now we say, you're all thieves, whatever you do. Then it's really the logic and philosophy in this country that it's best to be unemployed, not to look for a job, you're going to get some social assistance, and you're going to get some social assistance, and you're going to get a job there because the fushers aren't the taxpayers, they're not the taxpayers. Now, how many of those carmen under the helmets that paint your car in black, like, how much? How many are there? You have this information. Do not walk, please, with this information I am glad that you say that the tax collectors threw – what did the minister say? [[…]] Due to tax receipts, the budget has already dropped 20 additional million. Thank God, just prove to me that the gray economy has fallen by 20 million. How will you now know that it is because of these tax receipts that 20 million people have dripped? Is it a fire extinguisher? If so, they should be liable to the tax box. If the capillary is from pension societies, then the pensioners should have the tax box. If the drip is from mountain societies, then the mountain societies should have the tax registers. And I know it's not. Not unless Mr. Secretary proves it to me. Because now it's a matter of trust, you know. The country, better said this government, this coalition doesn't trust citizens, it doesn't trust society, so she said you're all cheats and we'll keep you in the tax box. And yes, the tax receipts for a major event are a cost. And there you have to have an on-call computer, if anything happens, call service is not enough, it has to be there because they can't stand, the bars stand, the tickets, if you have a ticket, it has to work perfectly, otherwise you're in a loss. And they're going to put the president of the voluntary fire company in the village or the members of the society. Things are very simple and a little bit more agricultural thinking, this, yes, healthy thinking we would need and our life would be much easier. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u93	Mr Horvat, I understand that you have given an answer to the views of individual Members' groups, but I suggest that you wait for Mr Christmas to come forward in the future, to put us in an equal position, because you have repeatedly turned to him and challenged him and he cannot replicate it to you. Mr Christmas will continue to have the opportunity to speak and I suggest that you can then discuss in this direction, because in such a case, Mr Christmas cannot replicate you yet because he has not yet debated. We continue the debate. Mrs. Ludmila Novak is your word. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, would you like to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u94	Did you give me your word?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u95	Lady Ludmilli Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u96	Can you, Mr Vice President, as a proposaler? Let me take this time as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u97	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u98	I prefer direct communication when we look with eyes and call ourselves names. But we're friends, we're colleagues, so I apologize if I've made a procedural mistake. I know it's my friend Christmas because I told him, my friend Tillen, that he probably wouldn't blame me for it. Of course, the content is important. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u99	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Congratulations on your election. But now I'm going to ask you if I can comment on what Mr Christmas said, whether I have to wait for him to speak, and then I can replicate it to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u101	Of course, Mrs. Novak, but [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u102	I think here, please, I know you're still inexperienced in leadership, but allow and allow Members to discuss [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u103	Well, if you'll allow me, of those who are more experienced, I would expect you to understand that Mr Christmas is not in an equal position.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u104	Look, Mr Christmas has expressed his views and commented on what is in our marriage. And let us tell you what we disagree with and comment on. I do not know how the debate should otherwise take place. Well, that's what I attribute to your lack of leadership. And I'm gonna say what I think I have to say. The problem with the tax registers is stinging. This is what we constantly perceive when we visit the field. We did not invent this problem, we did not confirm the tax registers, but we even opposed them. Why? Not because we don't want people to pay taxes. And none of those who protested or complained said they didn't want to pay taxes, but that the rules were meaningless. They are hard to carry out to have a lot of discomfort and a lot of senselessness. And that is why we insist on this darkness because we want such unreasonable things to be resolved that make life difficult for people. I have to comment on this statement by Mr Christmas, that farmers remain farmers. Of course, God forbid they should stay so that they do not have to stop this activity because they are living more and more from it. If we imagine that for one euro they have to produce, say, 4 litres of milk, then you know that their situation is not the most favourable and that they have a lot of competition from other farmers from other countries where food production is inappropriately easier. When I listen to certain people who sell their crops on the market, apples do not need tax receipts, for some other their crops other accounts. Those selling sour cabbages, the lady said how to now with wet hands still on tax cash pressure and similar Here it is for people who actually have little sales, to have low income from this title. [[…]] Someone who's big is otherwise organized. Someone who works at the farm in the morning or in the afternoon then prepares his crops to go to the market in the morning, and then at ten o'clock at night, he re-writes those bills from the block into the Internet, if he works by accident. Then we can imagine what his life is like. And that's what people said about things being unreasonable and not being able to work. And if we want to do the job in black, then let's do it the other way, with the work inspectors and those working in black. But for those who want to issue bills, let them do it the way they can. Then one lady tells me, there's people waiting in line, and I'm waiting for the receipt to come and it sometimes takes a very long time. What do people do? Today we live very fast and then they go somewhere else. Or they prefer to go to a store where these things happen faster because they don't have time to wait. I just don't think you have any idea how the farm is doing. The whole family usually spends mornings and evenings, vacations, vacations for a little time, and whether or not other people should be asked to replace the work in the barn and so on. Well, I'm gonna talk to you about lovers' societies. I am also a cultural lover myself, and now it is a week of amateur culture and volunteering, and recently I have heard again the calculations that I hear many times, how from one euro we can get 5 new or maybe even more, I have not remembered the exact calculation. What does that mean? If no one deals with a lover’s culture, of course also because of his own joy, growth, quality of life, but in this way, when he works voluntarily, free of charge, this activity is valued several times or has a higher added value to his activity. And that's why also lovers' cultural societies usually receive very modest funds from municipal money, and with this they can only cover material costs, let alone afford something, or pay a fee, I don't know, a conductor, a choirmaster or a mentor, while everyone else works for free. And that makes no sense if we make it difficult for them to do this in a way that they prefer to say, but now we're not going to do anything about any thing, because it doesn't make sense, because I'm not going to answer for it with my assets, and that's why I don't want to be punished anymore, because I'm doing something for the joy of people. And that is why we appeal to you, Madam Secretary of State, I know that you are mediating what the Minister decides, but I think you are also aware that something needs to be done, and I know that the government is already thinking that this is happening as soon as possible. Since in SMC they need time to think, for informed decisions, this usually takes quite a long time for these informed decisions. Farmers do not have time to think so much, but they must work quickly, act quickly when the time is, when they have time, when something needs to be done, and do not have time to make long - term and very thoughtful and profound decisions. Please take this into account and make regulations such that they will understand that they will be simple to be effective and enforceable.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u105	Dr. László Göncz has the word, followed by Mr. Tillen Bozič and Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! I'll start with that. If someone is following us in dealing with this problem, he will be able to say that we are repeating the exercise, of course. We repeat the exercise for several reasons, for the first time because laws or proposals to amend laws are being tabled on the same content or on the same content, especially from opposition types, and on the other hand because these proposals are likely to be rejected. However, I believe that the matter is much more complex. Indeed, there is no doubt that in preparing the content of this law, the groups that are most pointed out in these changes have been overlooked. The representatives of these groups are those of us who, as well as of us who are announcing this item on the agenda most of the time, are actually a week or even a day alert to these problems. So, it's not about some sort of speculation, it's about blackmailing something, it's not about destroying some of the systemic bases, it's specifically about how these groups, such as firefighters, such as amateur societies, such as volunteers and, above all, small farmers, have been overlooked. I am sure, even on the basis of what the State Secretary has said, that they are already assessing the first quarter of the implementation of this law, that they have already seen these problems within the Government or the competent ministry. And when it points to certain changes in the sub-laws, I hope that even because it is constantly being warned, it will try even before some systemic changes or more comprehensive changes to this law to some extent to remedy these most pressing matters. As I have already pointed out, we can probably view the proposal of this law as a nominally weak one, and to some extent it may discriminate against some other groups which may also be in a less favourable position from this point of view, but there is no doubt that some entities are, and among other things, those to whom the current amendment of the law refers, those to whom we have forgotten when adopting this law. I do not want to delay, I do not want to be long, but I would like to point out in particular, although, as I have already said, the law will probably not be adopted or the amendment of the law will not be adopted, and I would like to point out that by means of sub-legislative acts, even by means of interim solutions, it is attempting to go to those who are in the most unequal position because of this law. And as for the purchase of online cash registers or tax registers, the fact is that they simply do not have such an organisation, they do not have human resources, that is, these groups, and individuals, farmers, are among the most endangered entities. Maybe there's another way to end it. The Secretary of State also mentioned the amendment, if I have correctly written down, to the rules on the issuance of accounts. I would also like to ask that these interpretations are really clearer because it cites one particular case in relation to one matter. I have recently asked the competent inspection services myself about certain matters relating to the provisions of this Act, and these answers were also very controversial and contradictory and difficult to understand. So let's also focus on some concern about a clear interpretation of everything that's related to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u107	Mr. Tillen Christmas has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I have moved somewhat from the end to the beginning more precisely because the honourable President also warned that I had initially presented the views of the SMC Group, I am a SMC Member, so that, of course, you can all respond to this, but to the Member. As for the answers, I am also happy to give them to you, especially with regard to some matters that seem somewhat unseemly to me. So, the charge that fell on the Member State, and in fact also directly on me, that I have something, I don't know, in the sense that I'm against firefighters, that I'm somehow out of town, that I don't know this organisation and so on. The position, if you listened to him carefully, went in one direction. So, it was about whether you could take someone out on a flat-rate basis and give them a different status. When we talk about whether firefighters should remain firefighters, it comes primarily to one thought. As you know, even before the special rule had been drawn up, which regulated what was profitable to something non-profit activity, and very precisely defined these two concepts, it was that various club groups of societies were engaged in the activity of restaurants, catering restaurants and so on, this is a reflection from behind. Thus, when it comes to setting slightly different conditions for someone, it is important to consider whether, in view of what they are doing and what they are doing, at some point in time, because of less supervision, different operating arrangements and so on, due to regulations, they might influence that maybe, I don't know, the firefighters will be a new one, the right form, with all due respect for the existing structure, which works extremely well, you yourself mentioned voluntary firefighting companies, so that maybe they will start, some inertia that other activities will hang on them – which is inappropriate. That was a thought, exposed. And when we talk only about firefighters — why only firefighters? I was a member of the Koper Blowing Orchestra, for example. Why not the Koper Blowing Orchestra? Where did they get out of this? Why not the singing choir? Why not a cultural society that cultivates its own tradition? Why don't we talk, I don't know, about reading societies, about the university for the third lifetime, about the many societies that do this important work? You mentioned mountain societies, but that was the point, honey, why put a very specific structure differently. And here I'm setting you some kind of challenge to further substantiate this, but not just in relation to firefighters, in relation to everyone else. And here, when we're talking about everyone else, it's also been pretty well said, there's a second line. Why didn't they end up in the second indent? Why do they have their own separate, but you have societies and so on? Somehow you are addressing them in the second indent of that proposal and there are some questions and then there is also some controversy to be faced, not because I would be an unknown person, or even as I have received an electronic message now, very interestingly, by which I will also invite the lady to come personally to present her problem in an electronic message, also asks me what my past experiences or young people suggest that I have always been on a state nursery. My CV is published publicly on the websites of the National Assembly, my previous path is clearly visible, also if anyone is more interested, even on the LinkedIn website, you can look at what I was dealing with, who was paying me, who I was working for, what I was working for, what I stood for, so these are what you sometimes say under the belt. Once again, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not against firefighters, ever. They're doing very important activities. Then the question arises when you come and claim for yourself that they need 15 tax receipts on one fireman’s birthday. I kind of helped organize one event that was attended by 12 thousand people, there was, I think, 8 cash registers. Now, if you need 15 of them, then you probably have to think about it for the first time, or maybe organizationally something else to do to make it go away, so central control of money. It is mainly about sharing experience and how certain things can be done better, even after the experience of some other organisers; or it is really about such a large scale that in all the process optimization means that you have to have 15 cash registers, which then you are one very large organiser and the question arises because you actually need a whole year to put it. And just when we're talking about these things, I'd like to at least try to separate it, that when a claim is made, a fireman should be a fireman, a farmer should be a farmer, in some other light, not a bad one or a negative one, or someone should be on top of someone, and that someone doesn't know what else to do, and we're on the ground, we're talking, we've been doing a lot of things in life, so I'd really like to point it out here, because at least it's uns sports. Then again, it was what it was about the rainforests. Here again is one such question to me: Is this solution that you have proposed, given that you mention them so often, is being solved, is it true that you have made a proposal, or does it solve the problem of rainforests? I don't know. You'll probably be able to justify it. Then it was said that there was a mini cash register or something that was not helpful and so on that someone would have to walk into the valley and I don't know what, someone who probably just hinted or in the position it was suggested that the discussions were running, that it was seen in the practice of a particular matter, that is now to be supported by data and then, if necessary, action. But just in the case of mountain huts, when we also accepted this team, one of the questions was how many of these huts and what is a key problem, it is said, how can you approach this in such a way that there will not be any significant different treatment of someone, but only by having that technical aspect and the technical aspect of the law in it well broken down, it is said that if your tax office goes out if your program fails if you run out of electricity, if any of this happens, there is a deadline in the electronic store when it can be subsequently confirmed. Similarly, this should be addressed here already in the context of discussing some of the deadlines for setting them up. This is all about thinking. I would only ask if, somehow, I too may be addressed or sent to a group, that it is still going in some direction, that what we say may also have another background, a backdrop, and so on, not necessarily in the most negative tone that someone at that point imagines or falls into his mind. This is the constructive debate you are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u109	Mr Jožef Horvat, representative of the proposed law, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Look, Comrade Tillen Christmas, now I can name you, I haven't insulted you with a single word or purpose, and I've even apologized to you before, and I've given you an advance. I wanted only your explanation and somehow everything here in the New Slovenia Group disturbed us that you say the firefighter should be a firefighter, and let me explain to you why at point 4 we highlighted in article 1 of our law a specially voluntary firefighter society. Yes, other societies are here in point 5, and societies whose incomes last business year are less than EUR 10 000, so your winding orchestra is in here, if it has incomes less than EUR 10 000, and cultural society where you are a member and so on, so I'm talking about pension societies, mountain societies and so on. We wanted to exempt voluntary firefighters. In our opinion, they must not be liable to the tax box. These are not tax reliefs, they must not be liable to tax rebates, no matter how much income they have. Now, on the question, if I ask you whether a voluntary fire company is engaged in a profitable activity, you probably know the answer. The answer is yes, because he performs public service and has a contract with the congregation. Me? But this has nothing to do with it now. It's very embarrassing, colleague Christmas, and practically in Prekmurje it is so, don't mind me, because I come from this area, if I have to apologize, see, don't mind that voluntary firefighters go from new year to year to house to celebrate holidays, Christmas-news, and bring pictures on the calendar of working from last year, about competitions, about litters and so on, there are dozens of pictures. Once I get you a sample, you'll get a good idea. And of course you don't even have to ask, villagers give for firefighters, firefighters have in our society, but we probably agree here, but maybe your client doesn't, firefighters have some of the highest ratings, people appreciate them the most. I will also say, yes, your client, as you will at least support this fourth point in Article 1, at least this. But I'm also going to support your blow band because I know how much you're quitting to work out there, handing out your own pockets, and so on. It's a small society, not more than 10,000 euros. Of course, here I agree, as Dr László Göncz has announced on the ambiguity of the provisions of the rules on amendments to the rules on the implementation of the value added tax law, which is not a topic today, but will there, it is proposed that organisations such as companies, trade unions, institutions and so on, for certain purposes, be exempt from the obligation to issue accounts. However, the conditions are that these are entities with the value of all supplies below EUR 5,000. I told you before, one budget for one fire party, 8 grand. Don't take my word for it, please, whether it's 15 cash registers or 12, see now it doesn't matter at all, but you have to build an infrastructure for it, and that's the cost of a thousand euro for a fire party right now. You know what a thousand euros means for a fire party. Our young firefighters who are going to the state competition are happy to be given 20 euros for new uniforms. 20 euros. Look, these dimensions, we're talking about these volumes. Since I still have some time, I admit that I was unable to professionally dissect the Government's opinion on our proposal for a law that we received today at the table, even though the Government adopted it at its 81st regular meeting on 24 March 2016. On 24 March 2016, we passed the law on 20 April. Okay, maybe it's a lapsus or a copy-past, because state officials are very busy and what they do is copy-past if it's some opposition marriage proposal. Just a question: how do ministries and government officials act when it comes to ordinary citizens? Or maybe there are other effects here, I don't understand. So, a month earlier, the government had adopted its position on our marriage, one month before it was filed. Perhaps a brief comment will follow. In its opinion on the proposal for a law, the Government points out that it is not appropriate to introduce an exemption to the tax system, but that it has written in its law very clearly exceptions, such supplies being made by a taxable person who is not established in the Republic of Slovenia and for whom the Republic of Slovenia considers the total value of these supplies in the current calendar year or in the previous calendar year to exceed EUR 35,000, or where the supplier decides that, irrespective of the fact that the value of its deliveries in the current calendar year does not exceed that amount, the place of such supplies is the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the supply of telecommunications services, electronic services and so on, and the continued supply of goods and services to subscribers in electricity, gas and steam supply, water supply, sewage and waste management and so on. And now I ask the Government, are you voluntary firefighters and small societies, small societies that are our wealth - this is precisely because they are small, they are wealth, I have told you how many, as well as small farms, those micro ones, because large actually couldn't be with us, are very difficult to come by because we had a few more decades, three, four decades ago the Kardel land maximum, isn't it? And now I ask the Government whether a small voluntary fire company, small societies and small farms could also deserve to be classified as exceptions. Once again, it is an exception to the introduction of tax registers, it is not a tax exemption, it is a tax to be paid, it is a tax to be paid to that country, it is only one foolish, truly unwise bureaucratic obstacle that makes it impossible for normal, free operation – and I will now count it again – to voluntary fire companies, small companies and small farms. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u111	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mrs Marusha Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! During a period of one month, we have in the National Assembly a second time at a regular session at the table of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax Confirmation of Accounts, which clearly shows that with the proposal by the Government of Mir Cerar and the coalition SMC, SD and Desus, something is wrong. Today we are looking at the proposal proposed by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group, which imposes more than the necessary additions to this law with certain exceptions, and I say in the opening that I will support this proposal. I would say, however, that in the SDS Group at the previous meeting, we have proposed amendments that fully propose the abolition of tax receipts. However, it is certainly better to enforce at least some of the amendments to this law, as proposed by Nova Slovenije. And I regret, on the one hand, that it did not take 46 votes last month to completely abolish this tax box. The fact is that we have repeatedly warned about all this problem that has now come to the fore in the SDS Group. And, Madam Secretary of State, I am sure that the tax collectors will not achieve the objectives you have announced in their implementations, and even less so that the tax collectors will infect the grey economy or work in black. On Monday, it was very interesting to listen to the Minister for Finance, who explained extensively about the success of the tax box project and that even in the budget, there were significantly higher income from value added tax. Then the following day, the Finance Officer publishes a report on the revenue of the budget for April, and we can read that, compared to April 2015, these tax revenues are not as much higher than they could be expected, especially in the light of the promises and expectations that this government had in the introduction of the tax registers. Even more worrying is the 11% lower excise revenue. The distinguished Secretary of State, more than I have warned you, in both the current term and the previous term, that what you are doing is to increase excise duties, will in fact be boomerang and will be significantly lower in the budget, regardless of whether citizens and citizens are paid a higher final product on the basis of higher burdens and that the Government of Mira Cerar is thereby lowering the standard of living of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. And, Madam Secretary of State, I have repeatedly challenged you, because I am convinced that the higher value added tax revenues are also due to the introduction of tax registers, but because of the costs that users have with the tax registers, that is to say by purchasing both software and technical equipment. Dear Secretary of State, I am sure that at FURS you can, if you want to get information on how much value added tax has been paid to the budget only on the basis of the title, I would say technical and software for the establishment of tax registers. I'm sure this information, if you want it, you can get it. And to tell you what this amount was that users had to give and how much added value tax was then raised from this title. We have listened to how low the costs will be for the establishment of this system, and then with these users who actually paid the bills, we can see that these amounts are significantly higher and that some users have had more than, say, 5,000 euros, but not the costs that you would say you were selling. And that this on an annual basis means a considerable additional burden. Look, I'm sure that the tax checkers are evil for the Slovenian economy, they are evil for small entrepreneurs, and above all, that these tax checkbooks will never, ever, ever plague the work of a black or gray economy, as you predicted. But maybe they'll do more work, because this system that you've introduced, I think it also has some added value somewhere else in the background that you didn't want to disclose, but it's also more here than sanctions to monitor the hours of certain employees who are employed. Because we know that this system needs to be registered with its name and that you will be gathering information on consumption itself. Last but not least, the Secretary of State, in these tax registers you have introduced, you would expect that there would be at least some burden for entrepreneurs, that they might not have to submit any reports and that the cumulative collection of certain data on the FURS would be necessary. Entrepreneurs explain that it is not so that they should, I would say, still implement all the thousands of machinery, the bureaucracy they gave earlier. And I would like you to serve with this data, especially if you can also comment on the publication of April data, which makes the value added tax only slightly higher than it was in 2015. I propose, however, that this law will be the amendment proposed by Nova Slovenije, of course supported, because at least one part, I would say, these changes would be welcome. It is my personal opinion, however, that sooner than later this Parliament should adopt a law that would completely end this evil bureaucraticly occurring and which, on the other hand, entails significantly more costs than this government is trying to recognise and that, as a result, it is likely that a number of jobs will be lost or that many entrepreneurs will have to shut down their activities. The important thing is that taxes are collected. However, I am sure that we should probably go here following some pattern of flat-rate taxation, I would say, with as little bureaucratic costs as possible, where entrepreneurs could devote themselves to their activities as they have, not more than they deal with some bureaucracy, and that a third or half of their time is collected for the bureaucratic matters that this government imposes. On the other hand, I am skeptical that with some reliefs, with some exceptions in the law itself, domino effect. When this law is passed by the Secretary of State, I still remember your words, when you have been very firm in your defence, we will not allow any exception. Here perhaps I can even share an opinion with you, because if you agree to a certain change for one segment or another, then there will be a flood of this. Whether you're going to make a change that would suggest some annual income, but if you go to industry or activity or something, I think it's going to be bad. However, I am sure that the best measure that the government of Mira Cerar and this coalition could take is to eliminate this tax box, evil for small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u113	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. A number of questions have emerged in the debate so far, requiring answers. This time, too, the debate is broader than the content of the proposed law, but first I will focus only on issues relating to the content of the law. The law in force in the legislative procedure included, as Mr Horvat quoted, two exceptions. One relates to foreign debtors, because they work abroad, we do not have to interfere with our jurisdiction, and the other with continuing supplies where payment and traffic control is provided in a different way. Despite this, we have always advocated and still advocate that the system of clearance of accounts should apply to all accounts to be issued in connection with the supply of goods or services. It is two conditions, an invoice must be issued and it must go for the supply of goods and services. In connection with fire companies, societies, NGOs, voluntary organisations, you have used different terms, these are activities that do not mainly represent the transport of goods and services. Collection of voluntary contributions, no obligation to confirm or issue invoices – even under the applicable legislation. Donations — no obligation to issue an account. The obligation to issue an invoice under the current legislation which was in force before the entry into force of the Law on the Tax attestation of Accounts was applicable to these entities in the event that they made the delivery of goods or services. For a specific example of fire companies, this may also mean the delivery of a calendar at the end of the year or any supply on a firehouse. For mountain society or pensioner society this also means co-financing of transport related to the trip. And what we learned when these societies began to turn to us, that the Law on the Tax attestation of Accounts hurt their lives. We have found that they do not respect the Value Added Tax Act and that they do not issue invoices for these things where they should issue accounts. Therefore, at the Ministry, we asked ourselves whether it was right for us to call these NGOs, these NGOs, you have been doing the wrong thing so far, you have to issue the accounts and then you have to tax them. Of course, transactions from which value added tax does not have to be paid because they are legally exempt from it and should be invoiced. And when we asked ourselves this question, we found that the main administrative burden of these organisations, especially the small ones, is that they have to issue accounts at all, so we went to the rules on the implementation of the value added tax law, and we proposed that such organisations for the supply of smaller annual volumes be exempt from the obligation to issue an account. In the public debate we received a more or less positive response, the only comment was on the definition of occasionality, that we should define the frequency in more detail, that comment will be examined in the coming days, and by the end of this month we will also implement an amendment to the Regulation which will remove this administrative obstacle for the smallest debtors. The solution proposed through the proposal of the law, however, distinguishes, without any legal basis, between different activities. Already within NGOs, it sets different criteria. Furthermore, it imposes essentially different obligations between NGOs, which, to a certain extent, provide goods and services and which small entrepreneurs claim to be unfair to them to a certain extent. And in the solutions we accept, we need to find the right balance between all these different solutions. We believe that the regulation in the current law on tax clearance of accounts is appropriate. We also believe that the administrative burden proposed through the amendment of the rules on the implementation of value added tax is justified and is essentially addressing the key problems that have been pointed out by small undertakings over the past two or three months. I agree that this solution must be implemented quickly so that we do not give these debtors unnecessary costs. Now, for some of the broader statements that require a comment or a response. The concept of the grey economy is very broad and, unfortunately, it is interpreted separately. The emerging forms of the grey economy are huge and cash business is only one area that is particularly sensitive to the emergence of the grey economy. With the system of tax confirmation of accounts, we are not pretending to address all the emerging forms of the grey economy, but only one, which the tax administration, with intensive field work, has seen since mid-2013 further intensively. It is essentially about modifying data in invoices issued or issuing accounts for lower amounts than are actually agreed prices for delivery of goods and services. Most of the countries that have introduced tax clearances or tax receipts have started from scratch, so we have no confirmation, we introduce tax receipts and we have big financial effects. We built the system gradually, firstly called virtual tax boxing, the estimated effect of the circus 100 million a year. To this effect, the additional introduction of tied accounts, around 20 to 30 million additional effects, and the estimated additional financial impact of tax validation of accounts around 75 million. Data for the first three months indicate that this estimated effect will actually be achieved. However, this is not all the effect that we create by fighting against the grey economy. It is necessary to add the effects that we have in the area of combating employment and working in black, the effects of sanctioning the unauthorised abuse of the institution of a single entrepreneur, which is the task of financial administration together with the Inspectorate for the Work of the Republic of Slovenia, the activities we carry out in relation to the identification of unexplained origin of assets, transfers or transactions in more tax-friendly areas. Over the past year and a half, a huge number of tax inspectors have been involved in the field and the additional impact of an individual inspector has been relatively small in this sector of the grey economy in the field of cash management. The system of tax clearance of accounts allows for a greater impact with less presence on the ground, allowing it to go to the ground precisely where data shows that there is some unexplained practice or some unreasonable data coming out, allowing us to make more effective use of the number of inspectors available to us and reduce the number of inspections to be made, makes it possible to make random checks, allowing less stress on the taxpayers themselves. The costs we have with the tax inspectors are the same or are dealing with the area of the grey economy in cash operations or are now being diverted to the grey economy in the area of non-institution, i.e. the control of rainforests, or the control of work and employment in black, both activities require an intensive presence in the field. However, this is an area of activity that we do not mention in this report, and this report focuses only on those who are obliged to confirm the accounts. And data also show that the number of business entities rose between December and today, rising in all segments of business operators. That's on the back of the report we issued yesterday. With regard to when the Government adopted the opinion, the government adopted the opinion yesterday, apparently there was a lapsus that I had not even warned you about before that was actually an old date used on a form on which such opinions are usually prepared. And one last thing. Revenue from the budget in the first four months of this year. Unfortunately, the data should be analysed in a little more detail, not only to compare the two figures that will appear last year this year. It should be borne in mind that the obligation to pay excise duties and VAT is due on the last day of the month; in this year it was the last day of Saturday in April; in accordance with the law of the debtor it is not necessary to pay the tax liability on the last working day but to settle the tax liability on the first day of the next day. And that's what happened. The 60 million tax applicable to the April tax period was settled at the beginning of May. However, since we are recording revenue after the cash flow, they cannot be recorded during the month of April. The commentator also does not take into account that there was a high tax on legal persons' income in last year in April, with over 120 million in this amount. Why? Because the withdrawals in 2014 were too low. On the basis of the newly calculated tax, new corporate tax advances were established, valid from May to April of this year, which were higher and more consistent with the actual data, such as those reported at the end of March by companies liable to corporate income tax, and therefore were these payments, net payments in this April only, under quotations, 22 million and not 120, as in the previous year. Unfortunately, we cannot obtain data on the volume of VAT from the purchases that the taxpayers had to make in order to adapt to themselves the information system for tax clearance of accounts. This is not even so important because the information we provide in the report, which I keep talking about, speaks about the net amount of VAT, i.e. payments reduced for deductions of the entry tax. And since we have analysed taxpayers who are taxable during this period, all of these VAT taxpayers can also deduct VAT paid on the purchase of such equipment as input VAT, and during this period of additional VAT revenue cannot be recorded. The extent or number of taxable persons engaged in a partially exempt, partially taxed activity is negligible in this segment of the debtors who have to confirm the accounts. Control or tax credits as an instrument to combat black work. This segment has also been highlighted in the legislative process all the time, and in fact it is also demonstrated by the fact that the number of employees in business entities who are obliged to confirm accounts has increased. It should be noted, however, that this activity runs through enhanced activity in the field of combating employment and black work, in particular in the field of prevention of abuses in the status of espies. It is thus difficult to say which segment has a greater impact on this additional financial gain and on the additional number of employees in this segment of the debtors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u115	Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Marusha Škopac and Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Comrade Joseph Horvath, I must say that I am absolutely not surprised that the Ministry gave an opinion on your marriage a month before you filed it. In fact, look, this is happening, this has happened to us on the Health Committee. The Ministry also said that the Resolution on the National Health Programme was prepared on the basis of an analysis, but the resolution was prepared in June 2015 and the analysis to be the basis was presented for the first time in January 2016. Now understand if you can. With regard to this law, I would say that we do not yet have some real analysis of the effects on virtual cash registers. Today, we have heard that only one assessment has been made, and the ministry has somehow begun with the introduction of these tax registers. Now, I'm just here wondering what else will happen to us, that the ministry or this government will put even more pressure on those who are already respecting legislation and somehow bypass those who are successfully exploiting it, now I won't talk about bank holes and so on. The grey economy, I am sure that the introduction of these cash registers will not end. Those who have not paid taxes so far will not do so in the future. Read also yesterday's article in Finance, what the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has to say about this. Probably or unlikely, as a result of all the complexity of these procedures, the acquisition of hardware and software has led to a wide range of decisions and has also ceased its activities. And look, this many who have stopped their activities will now or will continue to do their work in black, and even those taxes or contributions will not come into the state treasury or will actually come to the shoulders of the country. Secondly, I must say that it is very sad that the ministry, as mentioned earlier today, does not even consider that Slovenia is very poorly covered or that all households do not yet have access to the Internet. Zgornja Savinja is also quite famous after this. The government doesn't care how people live on the periphery. This is also widely known and unfortunately, the Government has repeatedly divided us into first-class and second-class citizens. This has also been the case in the field of health care with the Emergency Medical Regulation, and citizens in the centres were first-class and we were second-class in the periphery. The same is now here, it is said, the one who has access to the Internet is first-class, and the one up there in the Logar Valley will somehow reach the Internet, it is said, is a second-class citizen. I am sorry to say that the Government is somehow working on the principle that it is even more necessary to anchor in some way a small person, society, voluntary societies, firefighters and, of course, farmers who are still engaged in complementary activities. And unfortunately, if the government thinks that this is an incentive for our farmers and for volunteers operating in different voluntary societies, I don't know if he's right. And speaking of volunteering, I listened the last time, I think that the Public Finance Supervisory Committee was meeting when a Treasury official said 90% of the taxes in the country were paid on a voluntary basis. 90% of taxes paid on a voluntary basis. Here I would like to see one in the hall who would say that one of the citizens is willing to pay the tax voluntarily. I have to say, no tax is voluntary, no tax and no death, I'd say they're mandatory, and that's a dot and definitely. And something else, after this existing law, which we have, of course, opposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, are also criminal provisions, if the buyer does not take over the account, that is to say, 40 euros in fines. Look, dear fellows, if we go over there in Maxi for a coffee that costs 1.40 euros and we accidentally forget the bill on that desk and accidentally pass the inspector, this coffee will cost us 41.40 euros. I'll say, in this case, thank you very much for such a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u117	The word is given by Mrs Marusha Škopac, to prepare themselves for the Mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today we are discussing again the Law on tax clearance of accounts, like the last few meetings. In the Modern Centre Party, we have repeatedly said that we do not support amendments to the Law on tax clearance of accounts before all the effects of the adopted law are revealed. The first results are already known and can be said to be positive. The volume of VAT paid in the first quarter of this year, when data was sent for the first time this year by quarterly taxpayers to pay VAT, increased by 13.7 million euros and 4.9% compared to the same period last year. We are talking about a net increase in VAT. However, what is likely to be an even greater positive effect of the adopted law is that during this period the number of new applicants in insurance increased by 22 000 705 in 9 thousand 361 employers. Of this, 9 000 808 people are on new applicants like those who issue bills. Only assuming that all of these 9 000 808 people receive only minimum income has 7 million euro been raised in the public cash registers of this title this year. We can therefore conclude that the adoption of the law has had a positive effect in two areas, it is said, in the area of tax collection efficiency and, secondly, in the area of prevention of black work. At the same time, the Government also recognised all the warnings that individual entities should be allowed to be mitigated or exempted from the tax clearance obligation. As the Secretary of State has already said, this will be regulated within the framework of the rules on the implementation of the Added Value Tax Act and not for the amendment of the law on tax clearance of accounts. The Regulation has already been published in public, and it has also held a 30-day period in which the entire public concerned had the opportunity to make their views known, which is why we can expect the solution to be presented briefly and also implemented. In fact, the proposed regulation solves quite a few changes that are proposed in Novi Slovenija to amend the second law, namely the Law on tax clearance of accounts. However, as previously stated by the Secretary of State, the problem is not that the accounts need to be tax-confirmed, but the problem is that in fact some of these debtors have violated the Value Added Tax Act and have not actually issued invoices for something to be issued. And for this reason, the Government has decided to approach them in the opposite, to those whom it considers to be justified and, in fact, to exempt them from the obligation to issue accounts, of course, there will also be no need for tax clearance of accounts. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko said in her opening presentation that, at the time of the introduction of the tax registers, a number of espouses had ceased to operate, but official data denied it. We can see it's 30. 9. By 31 March 2016, this was the last half of the year, the number of espies had increased by 401, with a decrease in the number of companies by 139. At the same time, the number of companies increased by 173 and the number of non-profit organisations of private law entities by 73. In short, we cannot talk about the fact that the introduction of tax registers has led to a reduction in the number of espies operating. I also cannot agree with the information stated that the costs for individuals were up to EUR 5,000. For all those who had previously had cash registers or invoices and who had concluded maintenance contracts, some of them were actually free of charge and costs of 5,000 are certainly excessive. Nor does it claim that any more employment was possible under the law because it has actually proved to be much more employment. As regards certain solutions for which the New Slovenia party proposes to amend the law, let us mention that some of them, in particular those farmers carrying out complementary activities, will be resolved under the Income Act and under the Cadastrian Income Act, so that we can conclude that a substantial part of the problems or proposals addressed by Nova Slovenije in this proposal will be resolved, but under other laws. Once again, we will not support this proposal in the Modern Centre Party, because we believe that it is necessary to wait at least the whole calendar year for annual taxpayers to come to pay VAT in order to collect all the data, to analyse thoroughly and on the basis of year-on-year data, which will be much more extensive in order to then adopt any necessary changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u119	Proposer. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Maruša Škopac, who has read our numbers so beautifully. However, colleagues and colleagues, we are probably not so dependent on these numbers and to say so, but the tax collectors are now those and only those who have contributed to the higher VAT to the greater inflow into the state budget. All we have to do here is be careful. And also a colleague of Marusz's, because you mentioned, the number of espies, see, the number of espies, we know how this comes about, how you establish it, how you shut it down. Please, not now based on this statistics, because statistics are sometimes the biggest lie, to say that everything in this country is nice and right that milk and honey flow in this country. It's a little different. If you are going from Ljubljana to the periphery, you will also come to the Prekmur municipality, where because of your laws, including the Law on tax clearance of accounts, and with respect to ZPIZ, in a small municipality consisting of one village, you have shut down the last two guest establishments. Now this municipality has no inn, no guesthouses. Two went off with one. 1. 2016, because they said, I'm tired of having these jokes, as they say at home, I apologize for the expression. Look, you have to actually go to people and actually set your glasses to microview or you have to go with a magnifying glass. It is true that we cannot, yes, adopt laws for every citizen. All these statistics, all these numbers, I'm afraid they're going to mislead us or mislead you. I am also being deceived in some way because the Government says so, according to the Financial Administration, in 2014 there were a thousand 521 voluntary fire companies operating in the Republic of Slovenia, of which 198 and 13% had already obtained a dedicated digital certificate for carrying out the process of tax clearance of accounts by the end of April. Of these 13%, we can make very big stories and very different stories. Why is it so small? My explanation, because the season of fire fun has only just begun, in winter there are usually no fireflies, so that's probably why. On the other hand, I can say, look at 13, then give us our marriage. Do you think fire companies work in black? Do these societies we have here work in black? Are these farms, small with complementary activities, employed in black? So they wouldn't just abuse that number, and I don't want to abuse them. However, a complex analysis of what they have brought and what they have taken away from the tax registers is needed. And this is a big project, you know, and this is an extremely big project. And I agree, even a time period of at least one fiscal year. So I wouldn't want to be here now with various newspaper articles, what Marble said, he said, on the one hand, we need a longer period of time, and on the other hand he says, yes, if I look at the results, 15. May, I can see and I can say that the tax collectors have achieved their goal. Don't paint people, please, because then I'm going to point out once again that numbers and statistics are one big lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u121	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Prepare yourself, Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact that the tax returns are a wrong project already shows the explanation or second paragraph of the Government’s reasoning, the opinion of the Government on the third party, where the Government says that one of the basic objectives of this law is to ensure equal tax treatment of all taxpayers and then reduce unfair competition. In short, all entities must be treated equally. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this assumption does not apply. All taxpayers are not equal in business treatment because they do not all have a level playing field because not all multinationals or small farmers or companies engaged, for example, in organising certain activities of pensioners, are simply not covered by this assumption. If this assumption is written down by this law and it appears to be, of course, this is a mistake. All taxpayers are not in the same position because they are not in the same business situation and do not have a level playing field, which my colleagues and colleagues have already talked about. And that, of course, makes this a wrong project and a wrong assumption. Selling in schools when children sell in schools is not in the same business position as selling in a supermarket. School bazaars are completely different, and they need cash registers. Selling in fire companies is completely different than selling cars. Because of this, as we have already said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will oppose this law and we will oppose them in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u123	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Prepare Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič and Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting! Tax registers. Again. This time we have a compromise proposal on the table, and I will say a healthy compromise on the proposal of the New Slovenia Group, which is one of the things the SDS Group has always advocated, which is that the introduction of tax boxes is disproportionate, unnecessary and, I will hope or dare to say, a foolish measure and, on the other hand, a proposal by the Ministry that advocates tax bills as some of the best measures, which can be done in the area of tax collection by citizens. We have also heard today about how the introduction of tax boxes is a great thing, how it brings positive effects. Here, both the secretary of state today and the minister are boasting for the last time that the headlines are correct, but that there will be some final analysis after it is done. But if the Ministry of Finance is so solid on its foundations, at least certain financial journalists limit them in some way to these famed performances of the tax registers when they say that not everything is gold, what the Minister of Finance says, but that different influences also have other matters. For example, the ministry never says what is happening in practice. They refer to how FURS should do its job better, how more independent entrepreneurs and so on, but obviously we do live in a double space or time vacuum in this country, because not only from the municipality from which I come, but also many other e-mails and personal meetings, especially in the area of agriculture, confirm that the introduction of tax boxes is a disproportionate measure. We have farmers' markets where people no longer choose to participate in farm markets because they say they really don't have any time, no will, no financial means to deal with tax receipts. And we have a lot of questions in society. Why did you just hit society? And the summa summarum of all this is that everyone claims they're willing to pay the country what the state takes, but they don't know why the state is giving them new tax and bureaucratic obstacles. On the other hand, the country is de facto in favour of the neighbor’s complaint, and he is no longer a good one. And that's exactly the point of this law, because when it was introduced it was all through speech, a less grey economy, a less grey economy, but not the minister today, I apologize, maybe I overheard, there was no talk of how the gray economy was less, just all along how we picked up more. And this is said by the government, which also has fewer red tape in the coalition contract and the end of new tax burdens. One is the words of this government, and the opposite is destructive acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u125	Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Prepare to be Mrs. Vojka Šergan and Mr. Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have to say that I am saddened to report to people who are interested in information, and this is good information, so that we are as educated as possible in this action with these unfortunate cash registers. Not everything is as black as we show it. I come from the countryside, I'm not from Ljubljana, and I know what's going on in the field. Many have worked hard to give Caesar what is Caesar’s and to do what is right. During this period, I am concerned about how the following information will come from our species so that people can learn as much as possible. In this reflection, which is initial and will not be completed tomorrow, we will probably still have to deal with the grey economy and also with certain mistakes and we will need information. However, if I recall that yesterday a report on the first effects of the introduction of the tax clearance system in the Republic of Slovenia for the January accounting period and March 2016, which will be dealt with by the government, is expected to be adopted today. I don't care as much as it will fall into the budget, but what matters to me is that there are some registered individuals in the insurance here at the back, and that there are some jobs in the back. Therefore, there are also effects on contributions. This is important to me. I must stress in particular that we have taken a lot of time in the Desus Group and have listened very carefully to all those who have some inconveniences in these solutions. These are, of course, as has already been said, at least for us pension societies, but for which a solution has been found in the meantime. Let me remind you that we have also been in favour of the initiatives of various societies and independent organisations that have proposed certain solutions or exceptions, not to give up on tax rebates, but to know and use these tax rebates properly. Once again, as I have already said in my position, I appeal to the Ministry to also use the rules on the implementation of the Value Added Tax Act to speed up. This will indeed remove any doubts that have arisen to us about the impact of tax receipts in practice, as we have seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u127	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mr Primož Hainz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u128	Hello, representatives of the Ministry and colleagues and colleagues! In view of the fact that we have already discussed tax boxes on several occasions, I would, however, repeat some things and add some observations that are drawn like a red thread through all these discussions. If we say in some way that statistics speak for the tax office, we cannot then say on the other hand, because the statistics are wrong, because in fact there is something different. I don't think so. However, if statistics were to talk about negative results, they would, of course, highlight negative results. In some ways, this quarter showed that the introduction of cash registers made sense, that the number of different entities that applied to the register or to carry out their activities had increased, the revenue had increased, the VAT paid had increased, so that somehow at this point we cannot talk about the negative results of the introduction of these cash registers. However, as regards what you point out, societies and complementary activities and small entities in this area. I come from the countryside myself. I understand these little people. I'm practically in touch with them. However, there is something that bothers me in these tax offices and in the issuance of accounts. In the debate, you said that, on the one hand, you want to make it easier for those smaller debtors and to exempt them from the tax box or from the validation of accounts, but I don't understand something when you explain, yes, but now these small entities have to issue accounts. Now, for once, I'd like to hear how these societies broadcast their balance sheets. On what grounds? On the basis of income and expenditure. Yes, and also to make a report in society, one must somehow know for a year how much revenue there were and how much expenditure, since the balance sheet cannot be made otherwise. The balance sheet is kind of a reflection of the situation or events that took place over the year. However, even at the end of the report submitted by the responsible persons in society, they must contain revenue and expenditure. And I think it's from this town that we're telling people, I'm not really talking about cash registers right now, even if there wasn't tax registers, yes, and we're saying that we don't have to write bills. Accounts must be written and, on the basis of this, balances should be made. And that's it. However, the fact that there is a tax clearance of accounts was, of course, only a cost of this treasury, but this is not a cost at the moment, but is a bound book, it replaces this cost by 2018 and in fact I do not know what such a big problem is. I think that's a potential problem. In addition, if I make a dot here, however, the Ministry of Finance has prepared a proposal for a Regulation on Supplements to the Rules on the Implementation of the Value Added Tax Act, which has been discussed up to 5. In May, and with these changes, those companies that have, as you mentioned, the most critical for the introduction of these cash registers will be transporting up to EUR 5,000, so it will not be necessary to issue invoices if they meet certain conditions in the supply they carry out. Of course, the ministry in this place would have to say that, given that there was only a rule in the debate, it would be necessary to determine what conditions it would be necessary to determine what objectives it would actually be necessary to achieve so that they could be justified not to issue the invoices. This is said to be on the basis of the information that the Ministry has made on this period and on the basis that it has advocated that such an amendment to this Regulation be proposed, I think it is a step in the right direction. You know, because I stress this because people in the field, when they listen, don't understand the difference between the tax box and the issue account, they really don't understand because, in general, people think they're only being issued through cash registers, but they don't usually. I'm really pointing this out because I work in the field too. However, as regards complementary activities on the farm, of course one part will be resolved in the new Cadastrian Income Act, which is that part of intensive production of vegetables, asparagus, strawberries and the like, which will be included in the KD, and will no longer need tax clearance of accounts or tax receipts. On the other hand, processing from milk, yogurts and anything that does not add taste will be added to the Income Act. That's why I think these are steps that are somehow going in the right direction. And at this point, I would point out that for all gainful activities, the requirements of these entities must be the same. In doing so, I would point out that, on the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce constantly points out that companies engaged in profitable activities somehow [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u129	Representative of the proposer, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I still have a little time. My colleague, I really appreciate you, but this time you've disappointed me so much that I can't tell. Look, we're talking about completely different things, and you're already at yogurt, milk and asparagus. Wait a minute. Now you write it down so you don't forget. New Slovenia: “Give to the emperor – or if you want some word games – Cerar, which is Cerarjevo, and to God what is God. Taxes must be paid fairly and taxes must be fair. We're not saying we don't have to issue bills here. But here, not to deceive, not to deceive, and to expect your apology here, I apologized to my colleague Tiln. Of course, bills have to be issued, of course taxes have to be paid, we are not talking about tax reliefs, we are talking only about this mess, which is really embarrassing, that I am turning and choosing the right words, for voluntary fire companies that are not working in black, for small cultural, sports societies, pension societies, mountain societies. And do not, please, overjoy this value added tax rule, because the firefighters will ask you when you tell them about the 5,000 you are forgiven and they will ask you how much one helmet costs for the competition. Do you know how much it costs? 130 euros times 10 and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u131	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u132	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! In this proposal of the law, New Slovenia was primarily pursuing one primary objective: we pursued humanity. In fact, if you look at solutions to what we are proposing, it is said to be exempt from the tax system of the firefighting society – in this case it is true that it is humanity – then the companies that create less than EUR 10,000 and the farms whose income does not exceed EUR 15 000. Well, now we've just heard about the effect that the effect of tax receipts is. Here. The effect, as presented by the Minister of Finance on Monday, is certainly minimal or under initial expectations, if I have been able to assess and if I have heard the Minister correctly, the effect is mainly on hospitality, on the issuance of accounts in the restaurant and so on. But the problem, on the other hand, is what the price for this effect of the tax registers is, what the price for this is paid by the fire companies, what the price for this is paid by the humanitarian companies and, finally, what the price for this is also paid by the pension companies. In fact, the ZDUS pensioners' association, if I am not mistaken, issued a warning a few months ago that they are proposing and we have listened to them with our proposal, and the pensioners have proposed that the tax system be withdrawn from those pension societies, all societies that do not generate up to EUR 10,000. We have gone against pension societies in this place and I invite Desus to come together here later in our readings, to do something really good for our elders who are working in the countryside or in cities with this amateur culture, to co-create and then to sell products and to have severe difficulties due to the tax system. The State is effective, it is true, because they had to purchase or purchase a tax box and are burdened. And we must not compare the tax system, please, with the system of issuing invoices and paying taxes. This is not going to work with each other, we agree, we agree, the bills have to be issued, the taxes have to be paid so that there is no mistake, but why these most vulnerable ones in this chain, for example, companies need a tax box, because they are not even taxpayers, are not forced or are not already set up to make a profit. The tax office is indeed an illogical consequence. That's why we said we're following this humanity here, especially, and we've proposed three solutions. How can societies that are not originally created to generate profits be required to comply with such requirements. In fact, I stress that the purpose of societies is by law a non-profit activity, not to enter, to exist because of entry into the market, their purpose is completely different. And I can't imagine our social life in rural and urban areas without societies. And by burdening them, for example, with tax receipts, we are doing exactly what we do is that a loving culture will not pay off to individuals when we ask ourselves when we will once without all these rural activities, where all this leads. And it's easy with farms. Instead of giving rewards to those farmers who work hard, the small farms that work hard are really self-sacrificing and live, then not with the carrots, but with the boom stick on my head. Too bad, too bad, and here New Slovenia proposes certain solutions, we're going somewhere. The government also requires tax receipts, as I have already said, to restrict small farms. I argue that we are already burdening small farms with excessive red tape, as I have already said, and that we are making their work even more difficult, and therefore we are actually facilitating our administration, both in active societies and in small farms, which are actually the greatest contribution to creativity in the local field. For this reason, I stress that we should not impose additional burdens on societies and farms by means of a tax box. We Christian Democrats have tabled this proposal, and such a bill before us is supported by a number of congregations. You may have received letters from the congregations yourself, I think that more than 20 letters from the congregations have come to the National Assembly, which are somehow calling for us to support this proposal, which is on the table. You can imagine how this works on the councils of the congregation, how it works in the congregations. It is likely that when the meeting was held in the congregation, the saints came and said, see, we are actually facing these and these problems, and that is why the congregations supported this proposal and sent us requests or an invitation to the National Assembly. And it's worth mentioning these congregations. They are worth mentioning: Municipality of Črenšovci, Municipality of Slovenj Gradec, Municipality of Škofljica, Municipality of Ormož, Municipality of Rogatec, Šmarje pri Jelšah, Municipality of Loška dolina, Rogaška Slatina, Šoštanj, Municipality of Pivka, Kamnik, Municipality of Lukovica, Železniki, Ribnica And I believe that the calls of Slovenian municipalities will continue to come from the tax system to take away societies, firefighting companies and farms. This stings our everyday lives, and I can't imagine how we hope humanitarian societies to put extra pressure on what they sell, and then we charge them with a mandatory tax box. And the same goes for pension societies. May the pensioners be truly rewarded, not that we, in addition, bend their necks. And I know that, frankly, thanks to all the municipalities and mayors of these municipalities, their citizens and citizens, but at the same time, I encourage other municipalities to make calls to the National Assembly together to take the society and the farm out of the tax system. For most of all, as far as the fire companies are concerned, not only do they increase our lives in the countryside, but when we need them most and the alarms ring, then they are the first ones to come to our aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u133	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Mr Janko Weber should be prepared and then it is already the final part of the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! My client colleague, Maria, would say that not everything is as black as some would like to show this tax box here. I absolutely agree with her, although everything is relative of course, but here Mary is absolutely right. I stand firm in the view that, however, in these cash registers, which are now being dealt with and talked about several times by jumping over a month, but not all so bad and all so black. If these tax receipts are, on the one hand, the main point that everything in this economy will play as it has to, and that all the main economic objectives will be achieved, then a sad country like that. Of course, this tax cap is not a major asset for the success of our economy, but, of course, if the abolition of these tax registers were the main reason to drain honey and milk, I am the first to sign that these cash registers should be abolished at this point. Of course, the truth is somewhere in between. I have been following for quite some time when this procedure for the introduction of the law, which brought this so-called tax office, took place, and I must say that the procedure was quite long, quite long. I was sure that it was tried, no, I am sure that it has been listened to by many stakeholders who are using or should be using tax checkers today, but it has turned out that some inconsistencies have, of course, remained here. At the time, we stood in this position that, of course, time will show what is wrong here, what needs to be modified, what needs to be changed, in order for the matter to be optimal. We were advocates to wait a year or two and then make some comprehensive, extensive analysis and I don't know what else to do but that after the first results we get, and we get them, they just fix and prepare those changes that are needed to make the matter even more effective. And we found out, in Desus we weren't the ones who wouldn't listen to anyone, maybe we got engaged at first, I've got it written down here, my colleagues fixed, "we're defending the adoption of a law without exception." Perhaps this has been condemned and I apologize if I have ever expressed myself that way, of course there are exceptions everywhere, such and different. Of course, some exceptions have already been envisaged in the original law, even reasoned, but we have now, through implementation alone, found out on the basis that we have listened to small companies, sports companies and, above all, to companies, of course, I have to say this to the pensioners, who, in some way, have been in a frenzy and have not been satisfied with this. At the Ministry of Finance, if my data are correct, it is likely that Mrs. Vraničar, State Secretary, spoke to you about this – I am a little lacking in this Chamber today, for objective reasons – that the rules on the implementation of the Value Added Tax Act are practically prepared, practically amended to this extent, which will allow for listening or taking into account the wishes, wishes, problems of those stakeholders mentioned here many times today, and it will go hand in hand that people who in these various organisations, including humanitarian ones, especially once again, are retired, engaged in some activity, can function normally, operate normally. The most negative thing about this whole thing is, of course, that we put an additional burden on people to be financially exhausted and to do some additional administrative obstacles. I say it's not like that. I have also been able to listen to some who use these tax checkbooks, not to make them into stars, but to find that they do not have some problems here in implementation itself, the matter works. It's working. Last but not least, the Ministry – I do not thank the Ministry of Finance for much of the time, but when there is a need for positive criticism on my part, and I also say it – has also prepared appropriate information support, so that it has made it as much easier for all those who use the money. Of course, we separate between issuing accounts and certifying accounts, which is a follow-up or a follow-up phase, and, of course, paying contributions and any tax relief, this was mentioned that Desus does not distinguish the most. We can tell the difference and how we know what's going on. We are, of course, firmly convinced, in the firm position that it is necessary to keep an eye on this or to strive to effectively collect all, I warn you, all public benefits, and that these processes are as traceable as possible, and in particular that the burden of all stakeholders, I will not expose any here in particular, fair and just. This is a condition for a brighter future here. I wish that this regulation, which I have already mentioned, will briefly see the light of the world and that those shortcomings that have been recorded, if you wish, during the first few months of the operation of the tax registers, will also be eliminated, and that we will no longer have to deal with these tax registers monthly at meetings of the competent working bodies and of the plenary sessions of the National Assembly, so that we can do some more damning things to make the finances more successful than we all probably want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u135	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that we have already discussed proposals on several occasions, whether or not to amend the Law on tax clearance of accounts, we have even considered the proposal to abolish this law, it is interesting to actually look at how these proposals were complemented, amended, we have come, say, from 50,000 limits, so everyone who has less than 50,000 euros in annual traffic would be exempt from the fact that we are now somewhere at the level of 10,000 euros in annual traffic and in farms 15 000. We can certainly expect that we will also meet further with a proposal to amend the law, which will be tabled by voters and voters, namely the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia and, of course, also the Olympic Committees, the Mountain Association has prepared the practical text of the law and is only a matter of time before they carry out the process of collecting signatures and also submit this proposal. All of this can somehow be concluded in the sense that it will be necessary to reflect on whether and how much of these smaller societies or those who are committed make sense to release all those who are committed to it. And not just from the light of talking about how to cut costs, which has been spoken many times in these laws, but also because you are somehow directing development through tax policy, you are giving some priorities. Finally, we have a similar case with migrant workers coming from the border area, working abroad, expecting a single response, all of which are questions that are, in fact, addressed in general from areas with limited development opportunities, these are border areas as a rule. When we talk about firefighter societies, I think it would be reasonable and necessary, I am also somewhat surprised that, by this time, this activity has not yet been carried out, perhaps the Slovenian Fire Association should also gather one survey of societies and also point out the extent to which these societies are such that it would make sense to relieve these obligations already because they actually manage their activities even in remote areas, in neighborhoods that do not actually have other institutions than voluntary firefighters, and thus solve many social needs and, of course, fire safety than that. In short, the whole range of arguments is to try to carefully analyse these proposals in all of these experiences and all of these data, which the Ministry of Finance expects to gather in part by May and then, of course, further by the end of the year, when all of these reports will be submitted by the end of the year. What I think is extremely important in all this matter, and what I have repeatedly pointed out, and was also one of the main reasons why I opposed this law in the basic text, is the collection of this data. One of these security aspects is how it is ensured that someone who is not authorized to do so comes up with information about who is involved, what business partners have, what conditions he has, but, on the other hand, when we are obviously going to continue to face the criteria, how does it actually come to be, who might be exempt from inclusion in the tax box system, or I think correctly, if I say that the Ministry of Finance then also has an accurate review of the individual debtor, what kind of traffic it creates on the one hand and what costs it has on the other hand, and what is the difference between the revenues it generates and, of course, the obligations it has. I think that this is one of the important criteria for how we will continue to talk, especially if we are talking about, I will stay in the border areas, because as a rule there are also the most of these cases, namely, it would actually be bad if someone were to assess when all of these obligations are settled, to find that they are simply higher than they expected to be done with this service, and that it would not be possible to eliminate such cases or to shut down such business entities that normally resolve their own existence, then, if they manage to organise the work, they could hire anyone else from this area. These are all extremely important and valuable solutions, for we still have over 100,000, over 110 thousand people unemployed. These data I have mentioned, I think it would be very important when, I suppose, once again, we also have to make decisions, and what is that criterion that we will take into account in this regard. I estimate that the Ministry of Finance certainly has a case-by-case basis, as it is not otherwise possible to monitor all these activities, how many social contributions have therefore been paid more, how many people have been employed and how similar. Am I wrong or am I right to think that the Ministry of Finance can certainly have this information at its disposal in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u137	This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, which gives us the word of a representative of the Government. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I have already spoken extensively about the reasons why we oppose the proposal of the law in my first intervention, so I would not like to repeat it again. Let me answer only this last question, which was raised first, as far as data security is concerned. This is information which is protected as data which are considered tax confidentiality, which means specific control when accessing these data when they are used. Such data shall be protected in the same way as tax accounts or forecasts or any other information provided by taxable persons in relation to the determination of their tax liability. The fact is that, on the basis of the data obtained by the financial management through the system of clearance of accounts, a whole range of analyses can be carried out, on the basis of which risk taxable persons can be more precisely defined, risk-based activities where more deviations from normal business practices can be observed, and in this way also more irregularities can be detected. The data available to the financial management are derived from different databases or different documents, one is invoices, the other is REK forms, and the third is invoice confirmations. Each of these sets of data points to one part of possible abuses, possible circumventions and is used for analytical purposes. This will certainly be one of the tools that could increase the efficiency of financial management. However, we must be honest to say that in these first months of the introduction of the system of tax clearance of accounts, the financial administration has focused more on field work, on information, on the warning of taxpayers, and therefore this analytical part follows, or let's say, in the second half of this year. Several Members mentioned in their debates that it is necessary to give the emperor what is Caesar's and that each must contribute in principle in its economic power, which is undeniably true. Of course, we also need to take into account or know what Caesar’s is here or why the revenue collected from tax revenues is essentially earmarked. And let me just mention a few numbers. Only for transfers to non-governmental organisations, i.e. various support to NGOs, including societies, is allocated between €72 million and €80 million per year only from the state budget. For the area, say, organizing or implementing a school activity of a billion 600, for social transfers of a billion 200, so we will have little sense of why these funds are being earmarked. For example, if we are talking about voluntary firefighting companies, only the Ministry of Defence spends about a million 600 million, a million 700 000 euros a year just to help companies buy new equipment, the Department of Protection and Rescue co-finances societies or voluntary organisations from its area of between 6 million and 7 million, that is just a few figures proposed in the context of today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u139	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Okay. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss representatives of the bill's proponents, Mr Jožef Horvat and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. Opening login option. Each panellist shall have 4 minutes and 58 seconds. Mr. Franz Ly has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u140	Mr President, thank you for the floor. It's a nice greeting for everyone! We have discussed this subject several times, both on the committee responsible and here in the National Assembly. The fact is that we have already found that the introduction of tax registers has as positive as possible and where there are some negative consequences, which is normal, since nothing is ideal in life. However, if the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance already have, in addition to all these opinions received from all these stakeholders and from us, then the analyses carried out by them, in their professional services, certainly have all the necessary information, what changes would be reasonable to introduce that the law would be really useful both for users and for the country itself in terms of positive public financial effects. And it is here that I have seen somewhere in all these debates that some Members already have concrete solutions under certain rules in the field of legislation, so that all of these will be largely shortcomings that have been exposed to them in order to be resolved. If so, then given that it is taking so long together and now those who have already introduced the tax box will remain, those who are not yet like certain companies that are also acting in the public interest and are on the verge of financial sustainability to exist at all, as well as complementary activities on farms, to get you out of this bad situation, I propose and in some way call on the Government and the Ministry to somewhere in that sense the slogan Turn your mind on, take your account, I suggest you turn on your understanding as soon as possible and do everything you want to eliminate the senseless measures and also recklessly, that we will stop talking in this way in the National Assembly and that these solutions will be felt concretely on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u141	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I also agree and support the introduction of some order in the country to pay taxes in the country. If we look back until recently, the country itself has not done so, because there have been a lot of companies that have not paid taxes and contributions for their employees in their companies for many years. Look, I believe that the introduction of tax registers has had some positive effects, but somehow in Slovenia we are all too often able to go from one extreme to a completely different extreme. I also believe that certain niches, certain industries and so on have been under-taxed or even tax-free, but I will now discuss the direction where we have gone in a completely different extreme, because in fact we are in some way increasing administration, making it complicated, imposing unnecessary work and causing only production, creating non-competitiveness and, on the other hand, increasing the public sector and costing it all. I will briefly illustrate two examples from practice if I take one from the economy, let's say we take the example of an employed espeus doing the work of a plumber. We know that for each supply of goods and for each service there is an account. But because in this particular case, if I exclude it, where the main service is provided, we know 176 hours a month, 2 thousand 100 hours a year is very precise, very clearly possible to calculate his work, his income. These are data that are evident, which are clear and very accurate to calculate its flat-rate taxation. This is said to avoid a certain work, both the issuing of accounts and then the tax certification of the accounts themselves. Another example is small farms, of course in large farms, there is no problem because they must have led bookkeeping or are registered as economic companies in most cases, so they have no problem, but the problem is in small farms where farms deal with various small, complementary activities, even their annual income is relatively small, I don't know, 10, 15 to 20 thousand euros. Here is a lot of administration, to keep all the data, which is absolutely, I think that bookkeeping is necessary in any case, but for the mere issuance of accounts in two ways, as well as the e-accounts and then for the cash of the book-bound accounts, which we know causes additional administrative tasks, reporting in ten days and so on, of course also with certain software, is pointless for small farms, because in fact the power on the basis of fully-known data is actually to calculate the values, not to say, of the entire agricultural economy with the crop. The data are visible, so the power from GErk to the plot is to accurately summarize all this data. And here is the power of this small farm with small activities to flat-rate taxation. These are cases known to them in neighbouring countries such as Austria [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. He has a word, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you, sir, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Madam Secretary of State, I would like to express my sincere thanks on behalf of the Group of Members to all those who have made an effort in the debate we have held. We estimate that it was a useful, common denominator, the common conclusion is: reflection is needed. Therefore, some adaptations to the basic law are needed to improve legislation and to show as a country that we have more confidence in our citizens. It is also necessary to consider, because, if you remember, in its original law, which of course is in force, the Government has estimated that the taxpayers are taxpayers for the cash registers, that is to say those who operate with cash or credit cards, that they are 80 000 in Slovenia, so far only two thirds of 80 000 have received digital confirmation. Big mistake, one third is a big relative error. Come in. We also agree to seek solutions. Colleagues and colleagues, we're looking for solutions. We're looking for solutions because whoever's not looking can't find it. And whoever's not looking is a lazy man. And the right place and the right time to find solutions is the second consideration of this law. We only wanted three minor changes with this law. We have proposed to exempt ourselves from the compulsory use of tax registers, for the first time farms carrying out complementary activities with less than €15 000 of annual income from this title; for the second time, to exempt voluntary fire companies, there is a Slovenian specialty. I tell you, a thousand 500 and some of them, in rural areas have a special social role, we have established a cultural society in a voluntary firefighter society, there is a development engine, within a voluntary firefighter society we started a project 40 and 45 years ago with a self-contributing village water supply, so we are at heart, so we are emotionally attached to it and the rule of government, the rules of implementation of the Value Added Tax Act is bad for voluntary firefighting companies, because there are only 5,000 Euros of supply. Voluntary fire companies carry out a public fire service according to the rules of the fire service and in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the Fire Service and so on, I have no time to continue to explain to you. And a third exception. All companies with less than €10 000 of annual income should also be exempted from the compulsory use of tax registers. Here we follow consistently with this solution the Union of Retirement Associations of Slovenia. Yeah, who doesn't support them? Is only New Slovenia supporting them? How's that working out? And the SDS, and the United Left. What about the others? Well, it's unrelated. Where did you guys stay? You don't support societies, the Union of Retired Slovenians? Here's the solution. The solution is in the palm of your hand. The matter is as clear as day. But what I will tell my young firefighters and firefighters when I come home, if we fail, they will despair, and I will say, no, not give up, because I will also tell the Slovenian public, and also with colleagues and colleagues of the SDS, that when we come to power, will be one of the first measures to end online tax registers. This is our message, and we will do it because the word applies to us. We have a word for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday 19 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 5. in the framework of the vote. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it's a first-hand proposal for a law amending the law on the detection of catastrian income. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer of the proposal, Mr Zvonk Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u146	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have decided to re- table the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Act, again after several years and for the same reason. In fact, the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law has a long-standing beard, since the first such change from the old system in 2011 was intended to bind the assessment of cadastral income to new land data, as it was old data, i.e. data on cadastral cultures and classes, unmaintainable and therefore unreliable, and in particular the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that these land cadastral data should cease to be maintained. The profession noted, however, that those who have been in force so far are no longer suitable for the modernisation of the cadastral income calculations and are obsolete. While my opinion was that it was an appetite to increase agricultural land taxation, there should be some reason for that. This new method is therefore to be developed on the basis of ratings and on the growth coefficient for forests. Data on the type of land production should be taken into account in a more detailed type of use, which is managed by the Ministry responsible for agriculture for all agricultural land in Slovenia. However, this law was adopted at the time, just like that, there was no statistical data, there was no basis, so the first income estimates on this basis were made only in the spring of 2013 and then the old methodology was extended. A new law was also passed in 2013 and a new law was put in place to establish a transitional solution for 2013 which allowed the cadastral revenue for types of use to increase by only 10% and where the new methodology was intended to reduce it. Well, a working group was also set up in 2013 to verify the appropriateness of the new method and to make proposals for better solutions as well. However, in 2014, the law was re-adopted, at the proposal of our parliamentary group, because there were no results that this situation from 2013 or the amount of the calculation for 2013 would be extended to 2014 and 2015 and the Government added 2016. And in all that time, in two mandates, it wasn't much done. Although the Government now comes with a new law, which we have already discussed, at least drafts at one of the meetings, and also found all other present, farmers, wine growers or fruit growers, beef farmers, all others, in particular those with permanent plantings, have found that this tax under this methodology, or the calculation of this cadastral income is too high, significantly too high, inconsistent with them, although it has been said that it has been coordinated. Otherwise, the government promised to re-coordinate them as soon as possible, to meet again, but time is running out because the law has to be adopted by summer. We therefore propose in our Group that this transitional period be extended for one year and that, at that time, a law be drawn up that will be fair to all owners of agricultural land. That's the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Matei Vraničnik Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u148	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Government forwarded a written opinion to the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the determination of cadastral income. We suggest that you do not support the law for two key reasons. The first reason is that the draft law not only regulates the extension of the transitional solution currently in force, but rather regulates it in an inappropriate way. It is proposed that the administratively complex way of gradually increasing cadastral income be reinstated, although the proposal to amend the law should only address the determination of cadastral income for 2017. It is understood from the text of the Act that, in order to determine the cadastral income for 2017, the amounts of cadastral income per parcel should also be recalculated on the basis of the new method for 2014, 2015 and 2016, so that they can then apply the new transitional period for 2017 at all. This doubt expressed on the proposal for a law stems from a comparison of the first paragraph of the proposal to amend Article 15 and Article 15(1) of the Act on the determination of cadastral income. The proposed solution is very difficult to implement administratively. The system’s contractors, the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, are subject to disproportionate administrative burdens, and in the view of the Government, it does not even solve the problem posed by the proposer as a target, since the proposal does not necessarily mean maintaining the cadastral income level of 2013 but could even increase the cadastral income for 2017. Another reason why the Government does not support the law is that we have already prepared a proposal for a new cadastral income law, and on Monday we have a final coordination meeting with NGOs, and we expect it to be submitted to the National Assembly for consideration at a June or July session. The new bill introduces a new method of determining cadastral income, which brings a more transparent, simple and stable system, which will be tested every three years. It will be available on aggregated data of the economic account and will be determined for the whole country. The proposal for a new law also addresses the objective pursued by the proposer. In addition, it brings important administrative simplifications to certain groups of debtors who, according to their current income system, need to identify their activities on the basis of accounting management, as the new bill provides the basis for regulating the flat-rate determination of KD also for special intensive cultures. It also allows for the regulation of further administrative simplifications under the income system, which is not possible solely on the basis of the extension of the current cadastral income law. It therefore does not support the proposal and considers that the new proposal for a law will also address the objective pursued by the proposal of the proposer. In addition, it provides other positive effects to the government's proposal for a law. We therefore propose that the National Assembly of the proposed parliamentary law does not support it as appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. In 2014, a new law on the identification of cadastral income was adopted, setting the cadastral income and the flat-rate assessment of bee income for 2014, 2015 and 2016 as set out for 2013. The purpose of the amendment to the law that we are considering today is to extend this state for another year, that is, for 2017. The proposal for a change of law comes to the National Assembly after the proposal for a new Cadastrian Income Regulation prepared by the Ministry of Finance raised a lot of dust in the public eye. Under the new law proposed by the Ministry, cadastral income would in some cases rise by more than a hundred, including a thousand percent. Representatives of agricultural organisations have made it clear that such a law is inappropriate, especially since it comes at a time when Slovenian agriculture has affected one of the worst, in fact the worst in years. Last year, we witnessed the decline in redemption prices, which have made the social situation of Slovenian farmers dramatically worse, and in the forests there have been a proliferation of underground areas. We have a cold this year, and we're not even halfway through the year. Since cadastral income is also linked to the right to an island supplement, scholarships and other social transfers, a drastic increase in cadastral income would mainly affect poor farmers. We must be aware that the cadastral income is not only a mechanism for charging the state budget, but that its function is also to force farmers into processing the land. Where cadastral income is unrealistically highly determined only on the basis of land ratings and does not take into account the socioeconomic situation of farmers, it may force landowners to abandon agricultural activity and sell land. However, we must also be aware that years ago the profession found that the applicable methodology for determining cadastral income was no longer appropriate. This fact is not opposed by the state-of-the-art organisation or, in fact, by the proposer himself. We need a new methodology, so it would be more appropriate to adopt a new Cadastrian Income Identification Act with a methodology that would be agreed by both the profession and the policy, taking into account all comments made by housing organisations. We obviously need a new methodology. However, provisions could also be introduced into the law itself to protect the socially most vulnerable farmers. The new law that we are considering today prolongs the existing situation for another year, and in the light of the recent accidents that have affected Slovenian agriculture, such an extension does not seem to be wrong. Nevertheless, it has long been known that we need a new methodology for calculating cadastral income and that it would nevertheless be better to adopt a new law on the determination of cadastral income. The extension of the current situation every year and every few years has a long-term negative impact on the agricultural situation, as it introduces uncertainty when farmers for each of the following years do not know what cadastral income they will have to pay. That is why we need a solution that will, as has already been said, compromise between the profession, farmers and politics and allow a fair and socially sustainable determination of cadastral income. In addition, the novel not only prolongs the existing state but also changes it, although this is not supposed to be the purpose of the law. At the same time, it changes the way the cadastral income is determined backwards. Therefore, in the United Left, we will be abstained from voting on this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, we are in a minority of the Parliamentary Group of this National Assembly, which we understand correctly the Slovenian farmer. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has completely cancelled in this area. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats support the proposed amendment to the Cadastrian Income Law proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have been opening a wide debate on Slovenian agricultural policy for a long time in various cities, part of which is also a system of agricultural taxation. We have highlighted, in particular, the failure of tax receipts, and finally the proposal to increase cadastral income enormously with a government novelty or with a government draft law. In February 2014, we were hit hard by a natural disaster, a stomach, and as a result, we now have a large number of subscribers. Experts at the Institute for Forests point out that this will continue for several years. The owners had to cut down practically all the wood and sell it at shamefully low prices. After such blows, the economy will not recover from our beliefs for several decades. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, allows the financial minister and his subordinates to the new cadastral income law to plan to raise the taxation of these people and the forest so constructed by up to 500 %, as we have heard recently from a representative of the Ministry. According to some of the data we have, about €14 to €73 per hectare. Christian Democrats wonder how anyone can think of such a thing. The Ministry of Finance, with its proposal for a new Cadastrian Income Law, once again shows complete ignorance and a fundamental misunderstanding of agriculture and the current situation of agriculture. The reactions of farmers and beekeepers on the proposal of the law are justified, bitter and also angry. The situation in agriculture is catastrophic and worse. The novelty of the SDS colleagues currently under consideration responds urgently to the current situation and proposes that the current method of determining cadastral income be extended by at least one year. This is currently the only acceptable short-term solution for the benefit of the Slovenian farmer. At the same time, Christian Democrats, on behalf of Slovenian farmers, demand that the Ministry of Finance publicly clarify the basis for recognising the costs of market income for all types of cultures, agricultural land, forests, vineyards in the preparation of a proposal for a new Law on the Identification of Qatari Income. Comparative calculations of the cadastral income should also be presented publicly following the proposal for a new government law and the law currently in force. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food should take into account all comments made by housing organisations on a proposal for a law on the determination of cadastral income in the further preparation of the government proposal for legislation and submit a revised proposal before the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for public discussion. All these conclusions were rejected by the coalition members, in ridicule of the Slovenian farmer and agriculture at the joint meeting of the agricultural and financial committees. This joint meeting was proposed by Members of New Slovenia. As we say, Members of the New Slovenia Group will support the amendment of the law that we have before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u154	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, dear colleague and colleagues! The previous point was in some way also linked to this point; the cadastral income was said that the amendment of the Cadastrian Income Law would solve a number of problems. We'll see. The problem is that in all these years the Government has failed to find appropriate solutions to determine the cadastral income, which is an extremely important tax category, since the cadastral income is also subject to tax and non-tax duties. This means that, in particular, for those who do not manage accounting, this is said to be for small farmers and for medium-sized farmers who are bound to the cadastral income tax, this category is very important because it is practically formed and is the basis for their overall tax environment. This is precisely why we have decided in some way in the Group of Non-Aligned Members that this proposal of the law that we have before us is necessary, but in that sense and in that part when it speaks of extending the transitional period, while in the rest of the work things get complicated and there is no way that the basic problems of taxation of small and medium-sized farmers can be solved. This is why we will not oppose this bill, but at the same time we call on the Ministry of Finance and the Government to take advantage of the time available to adopt a new law and to establish a new methodology that will be in line with all relevant stakeholders and that is designed to be an acceptable model for determining cadastral income, which will be predictable and economically acceptable to farmers, since we are of the opposite opinion that the strategic objectives of the Resolution on Strategic Guidelines for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and Food by 2020, which says: We will ensure food for tomorrow. In doing so, I would like to highlight the most endangered objectives, ensuring food security a stable processing of safe, quality and affordable food for consumers. Secondly, increasing the competitive capacity of agriculture and food. How, based on the analysis of the current legislation and proposals, tax duties are substantially increased. This will certainly not contribute to maintaining or enhancing the competitiveness of these small and medium-sized ones, which are also the most vulnerable. Thirdly, ensuring coherent and socially sustainable rural development in cooperation with other policies. I am certainly thinking about tax policy right now. Finally, I would like to say that any extension of this situation in uncertainty will certainly not benefit anyone, and I would therefore once again urge that an acceptable agreement be reached with all stakeholders as soon as possible and that we also have an appropriate, edible option on the bench, so that we can truly ensure one safe future for our farmers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Hello, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members proposed an extension of the transitional period under the existing cadastral income law. The transitional period applicable until the end of 2016 was thus fixed in 2013. The Group of Members proposes this extension by the end of 2017. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the applicable Cadastrian Income Identification Act has been prepared to bind the assessment of cadastral income to new land data, as old data, data on cadastral cultures and classes have been insurmountable and therefore unreliable. Above all, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that this data in the Earth disaster will cease to be maintained. In addition, the section notes that the method in force before is no longer suitable for the modernisation of the cadastral income calculations which have been obsolete and significantly underestimated in the light of the actual economic situation. It was therefore necessary to develop and implement a new method based on new data on the quality of agricultural and forestry land, i.e. credits and growth coefficients, taking into account the information on the more detailed type of land used for all agricultural land in the Republic of Slovenia by the Ministry responsible for agriculture. As regards the solution to the new cadastral income drawn up by that Government, it should be pointed out that it was based on a decision of 30. 8. 2013 established working group consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environment and Space, experts in the field of agrarian economy, some professional institutions and also interest associations such as the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia, and tasked it with verifying the appropriateness of the new method and preparing proposals for better solutions. In anticipation of the findings of the Working Group, a new amendment to the Cadastrian Income Identification Act was introduced in 2014, which provided that cadastral income and flat-rate income assessment on bee bees for 2014, 2015 and 2016 are determined as set out for 2013 and that the annual calculation of cadastral income for those years is not carried out. This has frozen the cadastral income to the level set out in the amendment for 2013. In view of the state of play entered, a cadastral income shall be determined on the basis of a government proposal for a law which shall apply until the end of this year. We do not believe that an extension of the transitional period is necessary as the Government has prepared a new law on cadastral income. The extension of the old method of determining cadastral income does not show a proper assessment, a government law should be in force, which will mainly be a technical law, which will regulate the method of determining cadastral income by which, on the basis of the available data and in the most understandable way, it would be necessary to determine as much as possible the real income and thus comparable treatment of all natural persons. A proposal for a government law proposes solutions for the calculation of cadastral income based on aggregate data from the economic account for agriculture and forestry. The main agricultural activity will also include intensive production of intensive crops under the new Cadastrian Income Act, namely the production of strawberries, asparagus, intensive gardening, snail farming and the like, so these crops will not need to be invoiced after the new crop, nor will they need to be taxed. Catastrophe income shall be determined in the production capacity classes for agricultural land on the basis of the credit points and for forest land on the basis of the growth coefficient. The correction of cadastral income is maintained due to the limited possibility of production in the areas of specific farming and forest management regimes. Catastrophe income and flat-rate income estimates on bee stumps shall be determined every three years on the basis of the previous five-year average of the economic account data. The applicant submits that the main reason for their proposed law was that during the month of April there were colds which caused significant crop damage, mainly in vegetables and agriculture. The injury will affect the calculation of KD for 2016 and therefore the extension of the transitional period for this area will not be beneficial and no extension of the transitional period is necessary. As far as gardeners with a majority of less than €200 of cadastral income are concerned, this is 68%, and this cadastral income is not accounted for or taken into account in income. The damage to vineyards and orchards will be tackled by specific measures, in addition to the government's proposal for a cadastral income law introduced by the transitional period, so that it will not be completely changed for 2017, taking into account only 40% of the calculated amount of cadastral income. On average, this year’s cadastral income will be even slightly lower than in 2016. In view of the above, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be opposed to the fact that the proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Recognition Act is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you, Vice President for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, nice greetings to all! I will begin with the thesis that I have already said at one of the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, when we discussed the identification of cadastral income and the recent cold. Agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia has two common points in recent years: natural disasters and the Minister of Agriculture. Of natural disasters, we all know that no matter what form they come in, they come in bad shape. However, as Minister of the Jews, we can see that his activities during these years, since which is the Minister of Agriculture, are similar to natural disasters. New taxes, new bureaucracy, attacks on small farmers and so on. And this attack is also joined by the Minister for Finance on the subject of catastrian income identification, Minister Marble, who, under the pretext of technical change, introduces new bureaucracy for farmers and, above all, new taxes. We all know what cadastral income is, or at least all farmers know what cadastral income is. It is the basis that answers his key question: Whether he survives, stagnates, or prospers or thrives. Catastrophe income then has an impact on income, collective contributions and 20 and more social transfers. Because sometimes one euro decides whether the farmer’s son will receive a child allowance or whether the farmer’s son will receive a grant or whether the children or family members will be entitled to a social transfer. I am either lucky or unhappy to have been involved in this conflict since 2012 with regard to the regulation of cadastral income. When nothing had happened, the SDS Group arrived and generously extended the existing situation to the current Minister of the Jews for two years. Since Minister Židan himself was aware that this was a difficult issue, he even suggested that instead of a two-year transitional period, we would have a three-year transitional period with a commitment that, at that time, the Geodetic Authority, the Statistical Office and all the other stakeholders from certain ministries to those agricultural stakeholders would only take a step further. But for the last time, the debate on the Committee has shown that technical systemic solutions are being discussed, but once again we have no analysis of whether this is true or a similar case, such as the introduction of tax registers, where the introduction states how cool everything is, and people from all areas hold their heads when they get such a headache in actual implementation. More. Catastrophe income is a fiction for next year. Last time I was on the board, I was wondering who's hoping to see what's coming next year. He's probably not a hero, except some psychic who's been paid well to tell you what's gonna happen next year. But Slovenian farmer is forced to use this fiction for the following year, which affects his income and social transfers. This year in the last week of April, we had a natural disaster: cold, snow. For the last time, the representatives of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia showed what was going on in the last week of April. This cold and snow are a crucial moment in which we decided in the SDS Group to propose this law, this one-year extension of the transitional period or moratoriums. We do not know how the story with the cold will take place, as the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture also confirmed when they themselves did not hope to make flat-rate claims, what all this cold can bring, although at least in Posavia most farmers with a 10% difference can determine what the impact of the cold and snow will be at that time. We also had a meeting of the Committee on the proposal of New Slovenia, where the coalition Members rejected the conclusions proving that the Ministry was using a disguise of systemic and technical solutions to increase cadastral income. Let me start with a government law that the coalition refers to. The draft, which has been seen, unless there has been any change in the last week, is an immoral draft, is a de facto attempt to destroy a Slovenian farmer or will survive only a large and dedicated one. And this is the solution of this government, which says less bureaucracy, no new taxes or no higher taxes. Then I'll continue to support these matters. Moreover, on the one hand we have an interesting story when neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Ministry of Agriculture agree on what and how to save. While certain officials of the Ministry of Finance say, "Ah, an increase of €14 to €73, with an easy five-fold impact". Of course, after a Slovenian farmer, this coalition hopes to strike. After that clerk who said that, he doesn't want to hit. What will help all the decisions in this National Assembly on agriculture, including in the area of the determination of the cadastral income of 2012, 2013, which were adopted unanimously if the officials then take the story in their own way. More red tape – higher agricultural burdens. And what helps us all of the conclusions of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for agriculture and rural areas if the Government does not adhere to these conclusions. Allow some more concrete arguments why we think that a one-year moratorium is urgently needed and, once again, especially in the sense of the last April freeze. I have the 2013 conclusions before me, where we write unanimously: "If systemic irregularities in the law itself or methodological shortcomings are to be established, it is necessary to remedy them." But there is no argument before us that anything is wrong, just some flat-rate agreement that this needs to be changed. And, yes, in the SDS Group we agree that there is a lot to change, but not by paying the Slovenian farmer. That this government does not support the Slovenian farmer, they confirm the unacceptable conclusions at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture when we discussed the issue of the methodology for determining cadastral income. I quote, the proposal was: "The Committee calls on the Ministry to make public the basis for recognising the costs of market income for all types of cultures in the preparation of a proposal for a new Cadastrian Income Law." Coalition against. "The Committee calls on the Ministry to publicly present the comparative calculations of the KD on the proposal of the new government law and the law currently in force." We didn't hear anything. The coalition was against it, too. And the last decision on the basis of which I have proposed to the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture and Rural Affairs that all members who do not come from the functional or official types withdraw is that, when we have asked the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture to take into account all comments made by the state organisations on the proposal for a government law in the further drafting of the bill and the revised proposal before the adoption by the Government, they shall resubmit to the public debate. But the coalition was against it. On what basis can we then expect positive technical and systemic solutions? The conclusions of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Rural and Agriculture are logical and simple, but the Government does not support them. More. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance herself said that there were a lot of comments on their draft and that at least four areas were still uncoordinated: forestry, beekeeping, winemaking, special culture, and perhaps something else had been forgotten. Three quarters of Slovenian agriculture is inconsistent with the Ministry of Finance, but a technical and systemic law is coming in favour of the Slovenian farmer. Really? Of course, this government will not be responsible for introducing a new model on the determination of cadastral income, as this government has welcomed a transitional period. By increasing from 2017 by 40%, in 2018 to 55% and in 2019 to 75%. The full amount will not be taken into account until 2020. That's what the government writes. The subtitles say "killing me softly, kill me gently and slowly". This is what the Slovenian government is talking about with this draft government bill, the Slovenian Minister for Finance and the Slovenian Minister for Agriculture to the Slovenian farmer. The government writes for its bill: "The new method brings a more transparent, simple and stable system." As I said before, no analysis anywhere in Excel's table of existing condition, no new predicted condition. No, no, no. But according to the method of introducing tax registers, a more transparent, simple and stable system will be paid by farmers. More. The government writes, quote, "In view of the current unrealistically low level of cadastral income", reads: farmers, we did not get enough of you, "comparably to the realistic estimated income analysis, they show that the total cadastral income will increase, but within acceptable limits." On e-mail addresses, we receive calculations specifically from specific people, how their cadastral income will increase 200 times, 3870 times and so on. But the government writes that within acceptable limits. Congratulations and greetings! And even more. The government writes that on the basis of the proposed solutions, it is assessing what this government is very much doing to increase the total cadastral income in the land disaster from the current EUR 48 million to around EUR 100 million. We know what an increase that is. Not by 10%, by 100%. And this is probably the fiction of this government, because at least the basic calculations indicated that it was increasing to about 300 million euros. But look at the fragment! Finally, the government writes that on the basis of the proposed government law solutions, the total cadastral income was more than 20% lower than the current one. And this will only affect a certain part of the farms. So we really ask ourselves in the SDS Group who is doing these draft laws, who is doing these comparative calculations, and we also invite them to show them, but above all we want to confirm our proposal for a law, that both competent ministries will take one more year for sobriety, and that they will cease to kill the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian countryside with this accident, so that this law, the government, will enter into force after 2020, when from this government and probably from a number of our Members in the coalition, there will be no more spirit or hearing. But apparently the same will happen to the Slovenian farmer. They'll stay bigger, but there'll be no spirit or hearing from the little ones. Your Honor! In the SDS Group of Members, we oppose such legislation in the field of finance and agriculture and, therefore, be sober, transparent, simple and support our proposal for a law and buy time for one year. However, if there is a nomotechnic amendment to this Article that needs to be amended, I remind you once again, especially those who face the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, today we have the first general consideration of the bill and both at the meeting of the home labour body and then at the plenary session of the National Assembly, we have more than enough time to take solutions that will not kill the Slovenian farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Pril will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u160	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! I will briefly present the position of the Desus Group on the proposed cadastral income law proposed by the opposition, so of course I will be inappropriately shorter than my predecessor. I will not talk about the solutions to the new law that will be adopted tomorrow at the Government and will soon be in the National Assembly. The cadastral income law has been demanding changes for some time now, to which we must all be critical, and most importantly those directly Tangled are farmers. This is perfectly logical when we consider the financial calculations that have been clearly underestimated so far. The methodology for determining cadastral income is the key problem that we have long ago found to be causing inconvenience, and it is high time that we actually make it an end and change the matter, optimally of course. The current situation is not satisfactory and, of course, requires changes. Facing specific problems would be the easiest, simplest sites to hide under carpets, so we believe that it is not okay to pursue a renewed, renewed transition period and all the activities so far to address this issue on the side of the track, is not acceptable for our Group of Members, so we will not support the proposal of this Act. The government is also such an opinion as our parliamentary group, so it has worked intensively to solve such a problem and will, as it is said, tomorrow at a government meeting, as soon as possible in the future, as well as on our parliamentary benches, a completely new law. The same conclusion is reached by the working group, which has been appointed for this purpose and has in the meantime made quite a few key points. In the Desus Group, we insist that the new law should basically follow the recommendations of this working group, which are the basis for establishing new methodologies for determining cadastral income. Above all, that a new law will be written for the needs of farmers, namely those who deal directly with agriculture, consequently optimal agricultural policy and the same breath will say as much self-sufficiency as possible, i.e. self-sustainment for a healthy diet. The transitional period of so-called frozen cadastral income shall only apply until the end of this year. What is proposed today is a prolonged moratorium on this main solution in the Desus Group does not seem okay. This would literally overtake all efforts and efforts so far, and believe that it was not a small one, even by many coalition Members, who tried to make the best possible contribution to a good solution, so that one-year agony in finding appropriate solutions would only be extended and the problem would not be solved, and should be pursued sooner or later. As I said in the introduction, the Government has prepared, in the cooperation of many, I believe that all relevant stakeholders, in fact the solution that will satisfy in particular, and this is my sincere and also the wish of the Desus Group, in particular the farmers, and thus ensure optimal agricultural policy in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. We will not support the proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Act in the Group of Social Democrats because it is extremely administratively required for implementation and, on the other hand, it is also inconsistent with the taxpayers for the payment of tax obligations, the basis of which is the cadastral income, and an agreement has been reached between the ministries of finance and agriculture and the other representatives of agriculture and forestry involved in this debate on the creation of a new proposal for a law. How important this dialogue is, it is already evident from the content of the law adopted in 2011, where it has been shown that it is difficult to calculate correctly due to poor calculations and incorrect input data. Therefore, this law was amended in 2013. The new calculations did not apply until one year after the new scales were made, and a transitional period was also established in which the payment of any substantial increases in tax liability was partially prevented. And this transitional period ends this year. If there had not been harmonisation and by the time the new law was still in place at the government meeting this week, then we should certainly discuss the law extending this transitional period, otherwise the burdens of farmers would have been enormous on the basis of the law in force so far. Catastrophe income is a mathematical calculation, or approximate, to determine the flat-rate yield according to the type of agricultural land. Such an arrangement can in itself be very welcome, as it can also mean simplifying the accounting of taxes for owners of agricultural land and forests. The system of cadastral income, however, provides the basis for a functioning flat-rate taxation of farmers without a permanent determination of actual income. It's that simplification that's very important. It is important, however, that the calculation also be prepared in a way that reflects at least an approximate fair estimate of the yield that could be achieved on a given land by the master who manages the agricultural or land or the forest. And here is this dialogue, which is extremely necessary and important, to really try to coordinate with all stakeholders the data that can produce a calculation or method that can then be used to calculate a fair estimate of the yield on agricultural land or forest. The fact is, therefore, that the market situation is changing in the price of crops and, as a rule, the pressure on prices and thus a lower return on the agricultural economy is pressure on prices, and therefore cadastral income needs to be created in a way that makes this tax obligation real and not too high for a farmer. This is particularly important because we have different compositions of Slovenian farms in Slovenia. We have very many small farms and their share or position is located in protected areas or in higher areas, in short, in areas where farming is difficult. All of this also requires additional costs in farming. Therefore, we must be very careful that the arrangements that are adopted, however, allow landowners to support them rather than deter them from their economic and economic use of land. This dialogue, which is currently taking place both at the level of the ministries of finance and agriculture and where representatives of farmers and owners of agricultural and forestry land are also involved, is heading towards a suitable solution. All the open questions, which were also raised at at least two meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, have contributed to the fact that some new information, such as at some point of coordination and discussion, has also been presented to the government. Here was the commitment of government representatives to take into account these new parameters or new data presented at the meeting of the committees. We hope that this law, which will go through the government hearing this week, will then receive further attention from all those who are committed to paying or using the cadastral income, so that it will still be possible to coordinate and complement it in order to arrive at an optimal solution, which is obviously crucial and essential. If the current law remains in force, these tax burdens are extremely high for both agricultural land owners and forest owners. The interest is, in fact, on all sides, and let us hope that this interest will be demonstrated in the best possible common agreement. Unfortunately, this law, which is under consideration today, did not go through this procedure, so at these starting points, which I have said that we can expect a new law, we cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I apologize, but that article is awkwardly written, so the Ministry explains that calculations should be made for those years ago. That was a mistake. It is possible to repair the following. The purpose of this Act is to calculate the cadastral income at the same level as it was set for 2013 and then with these extensions of the transitional period for 2014, 2015 and 2016 and that it is also in 2017. The main reasons are two or three. One is that the buying-in price of agricultural crops in relation to 2013 as well as the agricultural situation alone is significantly lower. Secondly, in forestry we had a phalange, the consequences of which will still be possible for another 50 years in a large majority of the area where it was very large. The third thing is that we have witnessed a severe cold this year, which will have consequences on permanent plantations for the next few years. At least two, three years. This group, which was set up to prepare a new methodology for the calculation of cadastral income, has had as much as three years of time, has been coordinated and has given some solution. The New Slovenia Group then convened an urgent meeting of the Committee on this issue, because farmers, or other stakeholders, were dissatisfied with the results they had shown. And also the Farm Forestry Hall among others. Although it was said to be consistent with everyone. Farmers, one and the other, such beekeepers, fruit growers, farmers, livestock farmers, but no one was satisfied with this law. They cooperated on their own. The Council for Rural Development and Agriculture at Minister Židan also adopted 15 points which should be taken into account in order to make this law a good one. The Minister also agreed with this, with these conclusions. That's what was said on the board itself. However, the Ministry of Finance then did not accept this until that meeting when we had no. The conclusions proposed by the proposer himself were driven by the position, although they were very clever. But then the ministry found that something was wrong and that the law could not be good if the ten stakeholders concerned were against and threatened to come before Parliament with tractors. Therefore, the Ministry has promised to re-harmonise, settle down and try to harmonise on this law. Given that this law has to be adopted this year until holidays, that it can be calculated by KD by autumn and that farmers can then decide what kind of business they will have in the following year, there is very little time. However, the law was to be adopted on a regular basis. However, we still have half of May, June, and half of July — two months. But the law isn't in line, that's what's been shown. That's why we went into this law to extend it for one more year and to bring things together so that this calculation of KD can be fair. Also, this coordination, which has been, I fear that all the representatives of our agriculture have little support for an average farmer who has 6.6 hectares of agricultural land. That these representatives are particularly concerned about those farmers who process a few ten hectares, they are in fact compulsory health and pension insurance as farmers, but these farmers are working in Slovenia I do not know if 20% of all agricultural land. The farmer, who has 6.6 hectares of agricultural land, is required to have other incomes, is said to be going to work. At work, he gets a salary and pays an advance on his income. Finally, the cadastral income is added to this income. And then he pays that income difference as usual. But that's not all. If it's a younger farmer that has kids in kindergarten, that they're school-bound, scholarships. All these social contributions are affected indirectly by the cadastral income because it raises that threshold for the calculation of income. When these young people calculate what this will bring them, if the cadastral income is increased by 5 times, which was said to be, perhaps not in 2017, but by 2020, then these farmers can calculate what impact this cadastral income will have on all its revenues or reliefs. This calculation is the one that brings when it doesn't matter whether 100 euros is more cadastral income or 300 euros. If we look at those who have 6 hectares or 7 hectares of agricultural land, what they can do about how much this brings. I know quite a few young farmers who line up, like 30 bulls. And when he draws the line, it's a minus. This is where I heard Mr. Webber say yield. What's the yield? We have not heard that term in this national assembly. But yield is a term that is in Austrian or German legislation when calculating cadastral income. It shall take account of the 18-year return on a given land and determine the tax value of the farm. And this is the basis for paying taxes and for everyone else, including subsidies, for loans, and I don't know what else. We're all under yield. I understand the yield of some profit, the income given by a certain agricultural land. If the grapes grow 2 euros per kilogram in a vineyard in such a steep place, and the market price is 0.7 euros, please tell me what the return is. Tell me what the score is. Minus 1.3 euros. And the cadastral income, I think, is negative. But if you think there are so many grapes, and wine, which is 10 euros a litre, then it is a different yield if this data is taken into account. But tell us from how many vineyards wine is sold for so much or grapes for 2 euros. At least it's zero. Not to take into account the cost of work in the cadastral income. This comes from the time of Franz Joseph, when the executioners were established and some tax had to be paid because the farms virtually survived from their land, they were just feeding their family. They didn't sell anything. Now it's gone. Unless you want these farms to produce only enough to feed their family with quality food, everything else will grow, or they will sell if someone buys it. It is already happening that in Haloza the Fund of Agricultural Lands does not get a tenant for land. Winning in the Drava field, on the plain, fighting there. It can happen that someone who will have to take over his parents' agricultural land by inheritance will not sign because he will only bring him a minus, a loss. He'll have to work the land, he won't be able to sell the crops, but if he sells it, he'll sell it with a loss. Let's think about it. On the other hand, we should be aware of where we are by self-sustaining food, how much agricultural land is growing for us, but not just how those who cultivate agricultural land should produce their own food can be squeezed, because they are stupid because they will work indefinitely. Desus' position. I'll tell you what, when two pensioners were talking, it's a shame, because I don't have 100 euros in pension, and I could have two cows, and now I only have one. This is the reality of our agriculture on these small hill farms. And if we don't realize it or if you think we can go get everything to a good neighbor, we buy it, but the country will make social contributions so that we can live off them. I don't think that's gonna work. Therefore, let us reconsider and change this law; an extension of this for one year is only a gain of time because in these three years it has not been done what was expected at that time. Look at the conclusions – it was not made. It's been waiting for the last time, now that the noise has been said, but now it's relaxing, I hear the last week, it's slowing down, because time is catching us by the end of July. What you're letting go is what you think will be the solution? He won't. The solution is probably a different approach. Everything that the state pays to agricultural advisors, I don't know who else to help these farmers, is not doing what needs to be done. This is what three quarters of farmers in Slovenia say. Mostly smaller farmers. To work only for some of the larger farmers who control this agriculture in Slovenia. Or they want these small farmers to squeeze together with the government, so that it won't be worth anything to get at a very low price or free of charge to those other high-quality lands that these small farms still have. Everything else should heal and we will have Natura 2000 over 80 or 100% in Slovenia. But we'll live on bird singing. I don't understand, but it's that simple. I don't understand Desus, either, because most of the farmers there are 60 to 70 years old, the smaller ones. And they barely work and growl, that they may have too low a pension, that they may buy starch and artificial fertilizer. And it's not just in this area. We do the same on many others. If you do not support this law, you will obviously not, you will accept it in the government tomorrow, as far as I know, as far as I have heard from those with whom you have coordinated, then you will complete it with the amendment in the regular procedure and withdraw it by the end of July. Maybe so. Like a roller. Otherwise, no. And now in three months at the expense of three years when the time was right. Is it really that bad if this thing got extended? Will the state get that much less? According to those 2012 estimates, after the first calculations, there would be 300 million, then 150 then minus 60, as far as I know, in the end we have reached 48 million or how much has already been accounted for so far. Is it true that these few million more are needed for this government to heal this agricultural land, to destroy the cultural landscape? Is there not yet another calculation of how much less social contributions will have to be paid to those rural people working on the ground? Have you done this calculation of what a fivefold increase in cadastral income means to pay income or how much less social contributions or various benefits will these people receive? We don't know. No one must have calculated it. If you are not able to do this calculation, compare it under the new law, do what was decided by the committee, do some simulation, probably even the one, but you realize in the back how much less the country will give to those poor in the countryside, but at least to those who do nothing and have nothing. They must live well, those who work hard, let them work hard, be stupid and work hard and pay. This is the purpose of this law, because in three years you have not done what you should, the purpose is to extend yourself, to get another year of time to do so in a way that is appropriate, enjoyable and wise.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. She's got a word, Mrs. Mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Secretary of State. Prepare Mr Joseph Horvat and Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me remind you that today's first review of the proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Act is under way, extending the transitional period for another year. The level of the cadastral income is frozen as set for this year as well as for the following year. Today, the proposal for a law drafted by the Government is not under consideration because the draft on which an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was held is no longer relevant. Before the meeting, we published a new version of 25. 4. which already contains all the calculations that you are asking me to do today. Tomorrow the government will confirm a new version of the law. What is the point of public discussion, if not that you get comments in public, and you actually discuss them with those who point out. The debate in the State Assembly at the extraordinary meeting of the two Committees fell into the middle of this coordination. As a result, I have no bad conscience either with the first draft which went to public hearing or with regard to the coordination process. Let me remind you, the applicant argues that it is necessary to propose an amendment or extension of the transitional period for three reasons: lower buying-in prices, agglomerations and colds. All these three reasons are intended to generate lower incomes achieved in agriculture, but the applicant requires that the level of cadastral income for each debtor be maintained at the same level as this level has been applied since 2013. The government proposal for a law, I am now running a bit ahead of schedule, but the whole debate has in fact mixed the two bill proposals more or less, but the government proposal for a law, as will be discussed tomorrow, by 63% of those to whom KD is credited as the basis for the income assessment, will be reduced. For all those who cultivate specific cultures, the government proposal will include this production in the basic agricultural activity as of next year. For all debtors who process agricultural products for the market to a lesser extent, this will be included in the KD, there will be no additional income determination in essence. The type of administrative simplifications for more than half of the debtors, the reduction of KD in 2007 and then the gradual increase, while at the same time the approximation of the estimated flat-rate income to real income, as shown by the data, indicate that it is inappropriate to extend the current regime for one more year, not least to prolong the uncertainty of what will then be in one year, but to adopt a new system law and enforce it in a few steps, as envisaged in the government proposal for legislation. Why is it so late? This is because the working group, composed of inter-resort and interested stakeholders and the agricultural industry, took a long time to coordinate with regard to the methodology. There is no disagreement today about the methodology. The disagreement is about the individual corrections to be applied to specific areas in this methodology in order to properly address all the different agricultural crops to be covered by the cadastral income system. Once again, I propose that we focus on the debate on the proposal for a law that has already been tabled for consideration. I am sure that at the next two meetings of the National Assembly, we will also have the opportunity to consider a government proposal for a law when it will also be formally submitted for consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Of course, we agree, as proposed by my colleague Zvonko Lah, we need a new approach. We need a new concept in determining cadastral income. We have no bad news in New Slovenia that we have experienced the realization of our proposal a few days ago, namely the holding of a joint meeting of the two committees, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Economy. I was there in some way in the final implementation of the Secretary of State mags. Matthew Vraničar calmed down because she said somehow in that sense, you know, it's good to hear from us. But I added that we will see how much of this is actually going to be written in the new proposal for a cadastral income law and how much of this will also be heard. I was surprised when there were representatives of residential organisations, beekeepers, winegrowers, family winegrowers, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, who said they didn't really know what was going on if I made such a superficial assessment of their debate. We therefore expect this law because it is obvious that today the government coalition will overtake this proposal for a law proposed by the SDS. Of course, I would also like not to see the government coalition launch a government proposal, because we are the legislator, not the government. I think this has been a bit mixed up lately, in recent months or in this term. In fact, the Government is the executive operational body that prepares the legislative documents, so can the parliamentary groups, the Member of Parliament and so on. But here we vote because we are sent from people and we are here to take solutions for people. I recently happened to read the thought of the first American President George Washington, who said something like this. He says that no nation must prosper unless it understands that there is just as much dignity in the work of the earth as in the writing of the song. A very interesting thought, and yet a very interesting expression is expressed by English-speaking people, agriculture, it is said that it is indeed an agriculture. But Slovenian is the most beautiful language, so there will be no mistake. So it's very meaningful. In fact, it would be difficult for George Washington to assess the importance of agriculture based on the cultivation of land. In recent years in our agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, we are increasingly wondering whether Slovenians are even aware of the importance of agriculture for the survival of our people and the existence of Slovenia. I fear that this awareness is very modest. In addition, it is interesting to say that it was during this period of George Washington’s existence that, with a patent in 1785, Franz Joseph introduced a cadastral income. And a little more history. It was during this time that Mr Anton Janša lived, and he was born on 20 May 1734, which we call the father of modern beekeeping. Whenever I welcome any delegation or ambassadors here, I urge these people, our friends, representatives of other countries to consider and support our Slovenian proposal, our Slovenian idea that perhaps next year, at the UN General Assembly, we will host the 20th of May as Anton Janša's birthday for World Bee Day. I have to say, this thing is getting pretty good. And now, on the one hand, we are boasting, even in our diplomacy and so on, with our beekeepers, how good we are and how good they are, and on the other hand we are beating them on the head. Until now, no one has actually listened to them about the problems they have because of the cold which was a few weeks ago in northeast Slovenia. They don't just have an accomplice. It's sad. Here I would like to return to 1990 and to the first Slovenian Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Jožef Osterec, who was in the independent government in 1990 and wrote very good, to this day according to my best, programme for the development of Slovenian agriculture. It should only be updated, bearing in mind that we have a common agricultural policy in Europe so that Europe will never be hungry again, so it should be built on exactly what it wrote and specifically highlighted self-sustainment. Self-sustainment, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the conditions of political sovereignty, because food is one of the most important raw materials, although raw materials are a little harshly heard here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings, Members of Parliament! Today we are talking about a proposal for a law amending the Cadastrian Income Identification Act proposed by the SDS Group of Members. If we adopt this law today, we will do more harm to farmers than good. So much for who really understands the farmer and listens to him. Are these really just two groups of Members, or is there any other possibility? In addition, we will disproportionately unnecessary and unduly burden the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. What's the problem? You are not trying to move the frozen state in 2017, you are still imposing on the Geodetic Authority that it has to recalculate for all these intermediate years and then, if it resigns by more than 10%, you stop it at 10%. By also making it possible for an individual to have such an effect that he will actually pay more than he is paying now. If it has increased by 3% in 2013, given the year 2012, it can now rise by more than 10% and thus rise by 10% depending on 2013, which means that it could potentially be further burdened at that time. But, yes, because the proponent said that this can be corrected with the amendments, let's move forward so that we can correct this mistake. But even if this marriage is now being amended, it's still not good for a farmer. Why? A new law on the determination of cadastral income prepared by the government will come to Parliament this week and this law is good. The law was made in cooperation with the expert, in cooperation with the farmers, they were listened to. I can say that both ministries, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and we Members have made a tremendous effort to have farmers heard that we have heard them, that we have seen their views, that we have taken their comments into account. This marriage coming this week is good, it's fair. To be honest, it can also mean that someone will have to pay more. Just because he's honest doesn't necessarily mean you have to pay less. I hope we agree with that. At the same time, farmers are bureaucratically burdening and encouraging those parts of agriculture that are important to us in Slovenia or are fed as regards self-sustainment, and we would also like to encourage them to raise their self-sustainment in this part. What does the new law that the government will pass on to the National Assembly bring, and what will we not have if this law is confirmed today? One reason why this law should be confirmed is the recent cold. As I said before, if we adopt this law, KD will be able to raise someone and, according to a government proposal, it will even go down in the first year in 2017. And then also in 2018 minimally increased. For all of Slovenia for 1 million. With this, the farmers who have now been harmed by this sting really are burdened, heard, gone to the front. That's the first reason we can't confirm this marriage today. Second thing. If we accept this proposal of yours, we will not achieve what is always repeated that farmers want us to do. What do farmers want from us? Let us work, don't bureaucraticly choke us, we'll pay taxes, just give us peace. And now with the new cadastral income law, we have heard this and we are going in this direction, which means that those with intensive cultures who have had to issue accounts so far will no longer need this because they will be involved in the basic agricultural activity. If they do not have to issue invoices, they will not have to have tax registers. You used to be very loud about how you advocated for farmers to get rid of it. That's what we do with this law. It is a large part and part of Slovenian agriculture, which must be encouraged and raised. These are Intensive Cultures, Vegetables, Strawberries and so on. And one last thing. By means of the Cadastrian Income Law, we have been grinding and grinding since 2011. So we've been doing this for five years, and it's okay, but it's not, and we'd be extending. And now that we have a method with which everyone agrees, which is good, after we have aligned ourselves with the farmers, we would have extended it for another year. This has to be cut, enough to always extend. Me, too, and many times you do, because we come to "let's extend some time" too, but that's really annoying. Why should we extend now when we don't have to? We have prepared a law that is good, which is fair, and it would not make sense for us to now extend for another year this frozen state that we now have. If I respond to those little farmers again, poor farmers will be punished. They will not be, because those who have KDs below 200 euros will be 68%. So almost 70% of farmers have such a KD and these will not be taken into account in income. So that's not the best point. But it is also time to end this period of uncertainty when farmers are being intimidated by what the KD will do and what the government will do, how it will walk them. It's always a good weapon of opposition or anyone who wants to scare the farmers. This must be a slow end, and for that reason, although they have been good intentions, I believe this law must be rejected by the summer to adopt a new one and end this state in which we are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about a law that speaks of extending the transitional period of cadastral income. Of course, I must respond first to a colleague who spoke before me. The fact is, or even excused that there was some scribbling when the segment mentioned by Mr Zajc was written. But what bothers me is what we listened to all afternoon yesterday is that we're talking about some marriage that's not even there yet. You talk like someone's already waiting for him in the hallway. To be clear, we even talked about the government's systemic solutions yesterday afternoon. Thank God, I'm not listening to this today. When New Slovenia's proposal for road traffic regulations has given its position, the Secretary of State and publicly invites all coalition Members and Members to vote against this law. I already said yesterday that it is not the mandate of the Secretary of State to come to the National Assembly, to this Chamber, to speak about how Members and Members should vote. Dear Secretary of State, you have done the same thing today, you have stepped for this counter and you are calling on Members and Members to vote. But let me tell you, after a big debate yesterday in the Chamber, there was still the Minister of Infrastructure, which was voted 36 to 35 against. So you'll all understand me better together. It also bothers me, honourable Members and Members of the SMC in particular, how much effort you are making so that you do not accept something. Today, it is a bill for a solution in the field of agriculture. Of course, it is commendable when we all expect to eat healthy Slovenian food every day, but on the other hand, when it comes to those who produce Slovenian food, this is our Slovenian farms, as our colleague has already made clear in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are imposing only burdens and every two months these farms are surprised by the nature of a disaster. On the other hand, when we should clearly address this proposal, which we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and it is only a transitional period in the field of cadastral income, which concerns every peasant Slovenian family, it depends on how this Slovenian peasant family will live today and how it will survive tomorrow when such a bill comes to these tables, it is a great deal of effort not to accept it. I'm not an expert in finance, but those who have this law prepared in the hall when we accept it may as well be when it comes through the door. I'm the only one who's afraid there's gonna be some other natural awareness in the middle of next year's snow, and there's not gonna be any of it. Slovenian farmer, the one who produces Slovenian food, is in growing trouble. Therefore, Members and Members of Parliament also call on my behalf to return to yesterday's meeting, to see the essence, to understand the essence and to carry out this mission for which we were elected: to help our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u174	Your Honor! Once again, let me summarise the proposal by the proposer, and regardless of the techniques of calculating the cadastral income for 2017, but the basic purpose is to maintain a relatively low cadastral income for 2017. Also because of the known facts this year, the adverse weather conditions which have placed the agricultural economy in an even more difficult position. Causing damage, making it more difficult for farmers to survive business or to survive small farms at all. And what's the point here? Indeed, we have heard that a new law has already been drawn up by the government. If I ask myself now, what is the main interest of the Slovenian farmer in tax matters? He is most interested in the amount of tax he will pay and what his annual income will be. These are two essential elements of interest to every Slovenian farmer. With this basis, as is now the case, 48 million per year has been collected in the state budget from the cadastral income. From what we hear, if we do not yet have a new proposal, the new proposal would now raise more than 100 million annual cadastral revenues. This is what I anticipate in the light of all these arrangements and all the preparations that the government is preparing. We always go to extremes in Slovenia. Let's go from one extreme to another. My opinion is that taxes must be, but at reasonable and acceptable heights. So here, on my part, the appeal that this increase is, of course, I agree with the increase in cadastral income, but to a reasonable limit, to the limit that the agricultural economy will be competitive and that small farms in Slovenia's dispersed, dispersed countryside will also survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I have to intervene with regard to the latest information that has been submitted here. The discussion was that 48 million would be raised from the cadastral income in the state budget. That's not true. Catastrophe income is the basis that is included in the calculation of income. Under the current legislation, 39 million and a half are included in the income base. After the end of the transitional period, EUR 76.4 million will be included in the tax base for income, but the total income generated and reported in the area of land will amount to around 3 to 4 times that. The extent to which this is paid then to the actual income depends on the personal circumstances of each debtor. Also from how many members of the farm household are involved in a particular farm household and then, in fact, this cadastral income is distributed to several debtors. In addition, virtually all taxpayers with catastrotic income income have other incomes, either pension or salary or subsidy. Therefore, it is impossible to exclude from this data how much income is paid only on cadastral income. But surely none of these debtors have an effective rate of income above 17%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare the mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and fellow Members! Today we've heard a lot about taxes, we're talking about cadastral income. It is clear that the country must receive taxes, but we know that taxes are in a different form from agriculture and are also being charged differently. This new law, which is being drafted today and the opposition is saying a lot that they don't know anything yet, but it is somehow being prepared, and I must say that I have already been involved in this, so I can say that it was really necessary for this matter to be corrected. The first is because sometimes the cadastral income was very simple when there was some basic activity, but there was no complementary activity. However, since the start of complementary activities and cultural changes, things have to be laid on some new foundations, in a different way. To this end, the Government has also set a transitional period, extended the old law. 30. 8. In 2013, she set up a working group with different fields so that everyone could contribute. The government has commissioned it to verify the appropriateness of the new method, a new approach to calculating this cadastral income, in order to take this into account in the new law. That is why we are saying that this new law will certainly be better. It is often said that the cadastral income is so much higher and so many times higher, but it is not yet taxed. This is some basis that will then be put through various accounts in a way that will be the basis for the tax. However, I have to say that we have to help the Slovenian farmer, too, because I actually come from the countryside, I have lived on the farm for a while, and now I will take some work more for the hobby. Of course, I am particularly committed to the preservation of small and large farmers, not only large ones, because many times in the case of grants for European money, large farmers have often preferred them. We must be aware that we have over 90% of small farmers in Slovenia. Those too have to be taken care of. But where there's a line between a big farmer and a small farmer, it's hard to say. Earlier, there was a talk that the average farmer had about 6.6 hectares of surface area. But we know that farmers today, including the small ones, have many areas to rent that they process, but otherwise they would have grown. Why do we have to help a Slovenian farmer? The country also has an interest in helping Slovenian farmers to maintain it because it knows that a farmer has to stay in the countryside, because otherwise the countryside will not be preserved and the countryside is the basis for the development of tourism, which the country is also investing in in in recent years. We ourselves know that we have a beautiful landscape where, of course, we can still market a lot more, and many times there have been speeches so that small farmers with their complementary activities with these products that are produced on the farm can also be marketed more likely than if they were sold in trade. Of course, I understand the SDS Group, which has tabled a proposal to extend it for another year. But we do know that we have actually extended this for more than three years and that the government has drawn up a law that will come to the National Assembly in the coming month or perhaps in the coming week and will then be discussed. We need to know that this will also be the basis for pension insurance, which means that it will also be good for those who will work on the farm to somehow have a basis for a higher pension. This was also evident in the consideration of this law. You know, these farmers' pensions are today between 200 and 400 or 500 euros. There's a lot of them down there. And here will be the basis for more. As Madam Secretary said earlier, this income or tax, which will be collected from this area at the level of the country, will not be so great that someone could say that the Slovenian farmer will end now. Of course, it is a fact that anything else will be noticed in the debates and that it is still possible in the amendments to fix it, so that I do not see this. I was happy, however, when farmers also participated in the debate or debate on this law, then the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Beekeeping Association, the Association of Forest Owners, the Trade Union of Farmers. They made comments that were repeatedly mentioned that we had been coordinated, taken into account, and that there was still something out of line. But the fact is that the law has not yet been passed and that those things can be worked out at this time, so that this law is as fair to all farmers as possible, not just some. In fact, this law seeks a fair assessment of the yield on agricultural land. Many times someone says that it is not properly coordinated, for example, a field of 600 or 800 meters has a different base than that of Pomure. Clearly, this will have to be taken into account, and it will also be taken into account. If more costs are involved, then this will be taken into account and there will be a lower tax. I agree, however, that there will have to be some way of looking at small farmers, at those who support farms, because more or less of them do not survive and are more or less employed, which means that those who work at home create some income, then of course they will also pay income from this. So it will probably have to be taken into account in the future in order to increase the number of these young farmers or those who maintain small farms, not to decrease. I agree with my colleague Laho that we must do something in this area too, because we need to keep the small farmer alive. If we don't, then there won't be big ones, because big ones are going to process those flat surfaces and those complexes, but the rest is going to grow. There will certainly be a need to agree on something in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u179	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. After him, Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. In the course of the debate on agriculture and farmers, I think it is necessary to first look at some basis of what is important to the farmer. As with the entrepreneur, a stable environment is important for the farmer. On the one hand, we can say a stable business environment, including cadastral income, taxes, general agricultural policy, and, on the other hand, this environment is somehow affected by the various weather conditions experienced each year by the farmer. According to international organisations' forecasts, this environment will become increasingly unstable. As the agricultural environment is also becoming increasingly volatile, this means that the farmer will have more difficult business conditions. On the other hand, a farmer needs a reliable tax environment. By this law, in fact, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to provide for another year such an environment as has been the case in the past. Stability. Why? Because there are currently no other rules. He's not in the National Assembly. It was an attempt to publicise the cadastral income law, which we heard from the Secretary of State, that a number of comments had been made on it and was therefore withdrawn. The working group is preparing a new law, it will be in government tomorrow, whether it will be adopted or not, and so on and so on. In short, we're talking about a future. One future, which according to a colleague of Škodnik and some opinions from the Modern Centre Party, provides a more successful environment, a better environment and so on. On the other hand, let me doubt that. Why? As the Secretary of State said a few minutes ago that it would be included in the income, so to speak, the base, if I understand correctly, would have increased from 39.5 million to 76.5 million. Look, here's another increase in this cadastral base, and let me doubt and be concerned. On an average, on the same tax basis, there is likely to be a higher tax burden. I'm just talking about the average. I don't know, I don't have these calculations, I don't have them right now, and I don't really know what's actually going to happen. That's why I doubt it. But a farmer needs a stable environment he doesn't have today. It's a law that's supposed to come to the National Assembly, but I'm sorry, it's not really there, and we can't say we have anything else here right now. Why do I still doubt it? Because this government of Mira Cerar has only increased taxes in its work so far. However, we can start with income, where coordination with inflation is not taken into account, but there were an additional 30 million, and we can take into account excise duties where the tax increases, but we can take into account a fixed value added tax where it has been definitively determined that I will not apply a foreign, a general higher rate and so on, and an increase in the tax on financial services and insurance services, a tightening of operating conditions, a tax operation also in the Tax Procedure Act, at least some provisions in the field of inspection are such. In short, tightening the terms of the business. And if the so-called base now increases from €39.5 million to €76.5 million, I'm sorry, then I can't believe this is going to be any better. It's just too much of a doubt. And probably also for farmers and olive trees, for winemakers, for beekeepers and for everyone else. I'm sorry, it's hard to believe for these reasons that I mentioned earlier, which is exactly what this is about. It is easy to increase taxes if these data, which have now been listed here, are actually correct. Unless the tax rate is so much and so low. Even when I'm listening to the secretary of state and he says that cadastral income and tax on cadastral income is part of the income, it's hard to calculate here what the burden of this farmer and what it will be because there is still pay, subsidy and so on. See, under certain assumptions this can be calculated. It's very easy to calculate. And it's not true that it can't be calculated. Leave your wages now, and if you want to, I don't know, renting rooms and so on. But only for income from agricultural activities can this be calculated. Even for an individual, even when an individual had a cadastral income of 100 today and paid a tax of 10 to pay for the following. These are symbolic amounts. Today we are talking about this law, which provides a stable environment, the environment as it was last year. What the new law provides, we don't know, I'm afraid some people here are buying a cat in a jacket if I make a few human expressions. And I have a proposal, support this law, come with your marriage, and if it turns out that that law will actually be better, together we will reject this law in the second or third reading. There's no problem if you think so. There is no procedural problem that both laws are in Parliament. We are talking about the first reading, and in the next reading we will review if the conditions of business in 2017 are better under the new law, I think that we will also decide in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and we will withdraw from this law. There's no problem. Let us be practical and, in fact, work for the benefit of the farmer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u181	Ms Nada Brinovšek has the floor, followed by Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. I have to say, I'm a little confused hearing this debate right now. The Secretary of State is talking about the preparation of this law one, colleague Zajc said that you have a good marriage ready, which is soon followed by colleague Škodnik, that the law is still in preparation, is not quite ready and so on. If you have a marriage, bring it here, but not like my colleague Tomaž, who will slowly kill our farmer in the transition period until 2020, has previously said. Look, with this proposal to amend this law, we just want to extend the transitional period, one year at a time. It is said that the KD height for 2017 is measured under the same conditions as in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. Believe me, this would mean a lot to our vineyards, farmers, growers, and, last but not least, beekeepers. Here we must not forget that in recent years, as has already been said today, we have been accompanied by these weather conditions, which last month have somehow halved their crops for our farmers, farmers, beekeepers. But I must say that I fear that when we adopt this law, we will once again witness that the coalition, like a government that doesn't care about our farmers or, if you want, for small people, as yours or our Prime Minister calls us. See, if we look back, farmers should pay around 300 million cadastral income in 2014, instead of poor 50 million euros, as far as KD was administered and paid in 2013. Moreover, the data on the basis of which the KD calculation for 2014 was based were based on some incorrect calculations. Farmers were given an informational calculation, but then the whole thing was removed. I stress here that there has been a six-fold increase, from 50 million to 300 million. If we're already at this 300 million, I'd like to ask you if this 300 million reminds you of any government decision last week. I do not need to go past the decision of the government last week, which proves once again that the government is giving priority to investment and the development of centres, and that it is leaving the periphery and the countryside as a matter of concern. So the periphery waits, we sometimes say domestically, for better times. Colleagues from the Coalition, I would also like to remind you of your commitments that the government will lead a sustainable social and tax policy in the agricultural sector, which will ensure a stable and predictable situation. Do you feel that the government is leading a sustainable social and tax policy? Do you also feel that the amount of taxation under the existing rules will reflect the actual situation of agriculture and forestry? It seems more to me that this reflects the expectations of how much the tax should be paid by those, in saying, small people, or how much money the government has decided to get into its budget, so that it will be easier to share it with the developed communities and the centres, instead of thinking about the rurals and the small people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u183	Mr Janko Weber has the floor, followed by Mrs Suzanne Leup Šimenka and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. To be perfectly honest, I would expect the applicants to present their law in detail and explain the changes they are proposing in determining the cadastral income. In fact, the text of the law alone is not as simple as it may be heard that it is only a matter of extending the transitional period by which reliefs are actually maintained, which were extended on the basis of the amendment of the 2013 Act. It is also a substantive intervention in the form of determining cadastral income. When we talk about whether this change is reasonable or not, it is imperative that these changes be presented in detail as far as possible. I think that we can all assess that the drafting of the text of the cadastral income law is extremely difficult. Finally, this procedure, which dates back to 2011, when a single law was passed and it was found that it was not actually sufficiently appropriate, changes came in 2013 to which we find that, if implemented, there are very severe, high burdens on the owners of agricultural land and forest land. Therefore, this moment is a very great effort to try to clean up all these issues and to come up with acceptable solutions. So I don't actually see much room here for a narrow political debate about whether we're going to apply this option, or whether we're going to apply another option until we have calculations on the basis of which we can say what an individual solution means for a specific farmer or a company dealing with agricultural activity or winemaking or beekeeping, which is also part of this law. In my view, this dialogue, which is needed in this law, is more essential than any other law precisely because agriculture depends on a variety of factors, both on the quality of the land and on the inclination, the height difference, accessibility, the size of the surface. The whole range of factors, climate conditions that differ in Slovenia in a very small area, all of this affects the calculation of this projected income on some land. I think that the debates on the committees were very useful because they included farmers, vineyards, forest owners and forest owners. There it was possible to track those solutions and get a practical presentation of what a solution really means. So I think it would be even better if we did not consider this law at first reading in the National Assembly, but would consider it on the Committee and then try to agree on what it is and whether it should continue with this procedure or not. I have also said in my introduction to the presentation of the Group's position that if there was no agreement to such a large extent that we could expect a law to be tabled by the Government and that this law approached to a large extent the expectations of farmers and all stakeholders involved in this coordination, then it would certainly be necessary to decide at least to extend the transitional period. I also hope, as many debaters have said so far, that this agreement will indeed be so, that we can finally say that this law is optimally harmonised and later also enforced. What and to what extent this coherence will be, will be evident when the law is introduced and when we also get the views of both the Agricultural Forestry Chambers, the Associations, the Association of Winemakers and Beekeepers. From these opinions, it is then necessary to crystallize what is yet to be cleaned out in the marriage. So too much to lose now this instant of energy by convincing each other whether this law should be adopted in such a form as it is mediated, it is actually possible that this moment is really superfluous, unless, as I said in the introduction, if this solution were to be presented in detail, what could then also be said to the government, or not to include this law, which is intended to go to the Government on Thursday, because we will continue the procedure with this because the solutions are significantly more appropriate. But I don't think we're at this point right now, so we can close the debate this way and say that these solutions are optimal and that that law can wait peacefully for a later period or some more questions will be cleared. So, above all, I see today's debate in this light, how important it is not to miss the deadline when the transitional period so far runs out that allows lower taxation of farmers and forest owners. Of course, it would not be good to miss this hand because it would then be very difficult for the development of agriculture, forestry, beekeeping, vineyards and winemakers, olive farmers. In short, this is a situation that must certainly not be afforded in Slovenia. We have a difficult task ahead of us when, it appears, the law through the government procedure will come to the hearing of the National Assembly, in order to bring it to an optimum conclusion within the time limit which will prevent the possibility of coming into force of the law adopted in 2013. This is one of the key issues that we must have before us. At this point, I think that in this law, which is in the process, we can really say that some issues need to be clarified and it is possible that it is not even less favourable than simply and only the extension of the transitional period of the law of 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u185	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Prepare Mr. Jože Tanko and Mrs. Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, once again welcome! For the first time, I am a Member of Parliament, but I must say that I have already gotten used to it in some way, but the priorities of the coalition Members are rejecting everything we propose in the opposition. However, more than obvious, this raises a particular issue for you and you start to debate it, or you propose some of your solutions, but in any way indirectly, we may be able to move something, even though you do not admit it. I must say that today's classification of this point could also have some symbolic significance. Before this point, we have considered the proposal for a law on tax confirmation of accounts, where we wanted to do something for Slovenian farmers, those who have complementary activities, and in some way would burden them with the need to issue accounts through the tax box, and we will talk about consistent regional development, which I also cannot imagine any consistent regional development without some development of agriculture. If we look at where we are today in the agricultural field. Buy-in prices are falling more or less. At least that's what Slovenian farmers are pointing out. I am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture, but I come from the countryside, from wherever I look, essentially agricultural land. Another problem that is still being highlighted and that is not the last thing we see when we drive around Slovenia – the consequences of the pharynx. The farm. How much of this was saved? What are the consequences today of the suffering of foresters? And finally, all the attacks of the underdogs that are going on. Is that nothing to worry about? Then let us look ahead – unpleasant weather conditions. What happened at the end of April this year? It's freezing, it's snowing. It's not something that would be normal. And these are the reasons why we have proposed an extension of this transitional provision in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Why? Look, farmers today in the vast majority are not in an easy situation. I personally know the cases, because I come from the Haloz area, the immediate proximity of Haloz, which we have already talked about in this National Assembly and on committees, where the situation for agriculture is even more difficult. It's about May Farms. It's about Hill Farms. And what happens in such areas? Young people simply do not decide to take over farms. And with such last loads, there is neither the slightest incentive nor the slightest desire for young people to stay on farms. Doesn't that seem important to you? Who's going to be working on individual May farms? Farmers in those areas cannot survive only from agriculture. And you'd put extra pressure on them with that. And all we want is simply to keep the KD at the 2013 level. At least for one year. We do not want to actually introduce some new agricultural benefits. There are quite a few tourism advocates here. Here, too, let us ask what it will mean if farmers leave their farms completely in specific areas. We're going to have a lot of protection, we're going to lose the actual cultural landscape, and not least, the landscapes, which would be very beautiful, won't be interesting for tourists either. We are already in the economy and we are in the process of another activity. Finally, everything is connected to each other, so it is all the more important that we do not give farmers additional burdens. And that's our proposal. We don't know your proposal. Apparently, the coalition MPs are acting differently. The legislative and executive branches of the authorities obviously cooperate. We do not know your proposal, but today is the first time we are considering our proposal. What is the problem with supporting him for further consideration? At this time, we will probably have a chance to see your proposal. And unlike you, we support your suggestions, those that are good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u187	Proposer, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u188	Look, I think the debate has now turned in the right direction. Before that, I said that we must look at this fragmented agriculture, as we have it, in complex terms, not just from the point of view of one law. I have listened before, Madam Secretary of State, when you said how we are going to increase certain activities with this KD, I would say that the first processing would be a basic agricultural activity, not as it is now that there must be a registered farmer for the complementary activity. How can asparagus be sold without a bill regarding the billing law? One thing's important to the other. Another law, and now hurry with the adoption of this law, which must be passed by summer in order to be valid for the second year and, on the other hand, with certain rules, you correct certain things as regards the validation of accounts. You see how successful this tax box law has been, some point out that no, or you say, let us wait for a certain period of time to pass so that we can see certain results. This is likely to happen this year or at the beginning of the following year, when one period will pass. That's of great importance to these little farmers at all. If we seal this law now, if we have to open it to make sense, we will reopen it. If we extend these transitional provisions for another year, we will have time to see the results of this second law and then there is something else to be added to it. Maybe some more. We have a law on tourism, for complementary activities on the farm, which we also have in the procedure. In our opinion, there should also be a change in that our farmers will have similar conditions as in neighbouring Austria when they have two million nights of summer at 15 kilometres of our borders within three months. Why is there a hill on that side? And now these Austrians are buying vineyards on our side so they can sell their tourists on an open table of wines on their side. They have vineyards with us, they drive grapes home to improve their wines and sell well at home to tourists. But with us, it's not worth it. We sell vineyards cheap. Why did we come to this? It's not your ministry's job, it's the Ministry of Agriculture, it's the Ministry of the Economy. We have to look at it complex. When we try to change one marriage, we change it and find that there is not everything but another, and it takes six months and a year, but we don't come anywhere. Because the left hand doesn't know what the right hand is doing. Therefore, it might not be so wrong to wait too long for such a rapid change, if we have waited three years now or more, four years, then to extend this transitional period to see what we can do to make this trend of self-sustainment and the growth of the agricultural land with us, not just to watch it on television, how it is on Crassus, how something is waking up, but are being hampered by our legislation that we have. Instead of helping, blocking or making all these initiatives difficult. I would therefore suggest that you reconsider the position of allowing the law to go forward in this first reading. At that time, the government will confirm your marriage, which we do not yet know. But given the debate at the last meeting of the Committees on Agriculture and Finance, this law is not harmonised and is not good. If he's gotten so much better at this time, I'm sorry, we don't have him yet. So much in mind that we support and then at the joint meeting of the Committees on Agriculture and Finance, we are going to have a more detailed debate and then we are going to decide what we are going to do with one law and another, that we are not going to do something about it when it's adopted, and after a few months we realize that something is wrong or that something is really bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u189	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. For her as the last discusser in this part, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary with co-worker, colleague and colleague! With regard to this law, I would say that it is for the sake of amending the Cadastrian Income Act that you really cannot give us colleagues and, my colleague, you are reading that we have not taken the right steps here if there is already a law in the government tomorrow and in the next days in Parliament. If not here, then not here. In addition, perhaps we could only point out that our colleague Podkoršek said that we are terribly deepening into the content and trying not to confirm any of your laws. That's not true. We are really trying in every proposal to maximize the depth, maximum understanding and somehow clear up with content. Nor is it obvious that the priors would reject laws. Not exactly in the field of cadastral income. We also advocate a stable tax environment and a business environment for a farmer. We also want to remove as many administrative obstacles as possible, which are essentially a challenge for farmers. I think it's precisely because we're looking for a stable environment that we're looking for, that the new law, which is kind of a technical law, is going to regulate the method of determining cadastral income. This method, which has been proposed by all stakeholders, I think that the one that will create a more lasting, predictable taxation of farmers, especially small ones. We have 68% of small farmers, most of whom have 200 euros in cadastral income. And this is not taken into account in income. This law, which will be in the procedure at any time, takes all this into account. I'm actually afraid you're afraid of any change. I would point out once again that not every change is necessarily bad. We can't just assume in advance that something's wrong, that it's bad if we don't even have it. That is why I propose that you really wait for this to be reviewed and only then will you be able to have your comments. So much for that. This proposal somehow improves taxation or increases taxation on the basis of cadastral income. This proposal of yours is worse than the Government's Cadastrian Income Act, which is a technical law introduced by a transitional period, so that it will not be completely amended for 2017 because it will only take account of 40% of the calculated amount of cadastral income. As I said, the average will be even a little lower this year than in 2016. So it really doesn't have to be predetermined that everything is bad and that change is not going to be a good change. Since this draft was submitted, it has actually been quite a while, so believe that certain comments have also been taken into account which will improve the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u191	Mr. Underpants, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. My colleague, when you spoke about my visions, I can tell you that I was extremely happy at the beginning of my term when you told me that you were an entrepreneur. And I said to myself, the entrepreneur who's going to give a new wind in this national council. But I have to tell you today because you challenged me, but I would have told you this six months ago or one year ago if you were to do that in your company and talk like you do in the National Assembly, I have to tell you that this company is failing in one month. My findings are true, you're always talking about systemic solutions that aren't there. You've been saying that for almost two years. The opposition is proposing laws because they are not proposed by the coalition and the government. People outside this national council have bigger problems every day. But because you can't tell who's spending in the country, now I'm going to say, he's stealing taxpayer money because you can't tell, and I resent you the most. This is your responsibility in the coalition because you don't say it because you don't hate it. People who are outside this hall live worse every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much for your word. If I am not mistaken, Mr Vice-President, we are talking about the law we tabled on 29 April 2016. And we are not talking about a law that may be introduced on May 22, 2016. We would have earned so much respect for the proposaler. Talking about a pigeon on a roof is bullshit, but here we have a solution that we've proposed. What bothers me, in particular, is that some of you have stumbled upon some editorial detail, including the secretary of state, and you kind of take it as some sort of thing that doesn't deserve to be dealt with by the law. I would like to remind some of my colleagues here and also the secretary of state that you have come with a real estate tax law that was unconstitutional, but you have taken it away without any thought whatsoever, to the end, to the Constitutional Court and to the fall. You were the chief advocate of the government, Madam Secretary of State, in this National Assembly. When you judge what the problem is with what marriage is and what weight it has, be honest with yourself and us. What we are proposing, and if anything is wrong, is further considered, as Mr Weber said at the working body meeting, if you confirm today or tomorrow by voting this law, it will come to the working body, and you will be able to fix what is possibly wrong with you or you need to improve editorially. Now here we are monitoring your discussions in such a way as to be recorded on the playback. The government's opinion is the basis, and then you're here competing with these variations, who's gonna be better at karaoke. This is what you do, karaoke you go here in this National Assembly all coalition members, including representatives of the government. Karaoke. You sing that song in your own way based on the government's opinion. This law does not give rise to any deterioration for anyone who is liable to KD. Government law, we've heard before, brings about a hundred percent deterioration of the situation. If it's accepted, it can make it worse. However, I would like to say that we are not all these big words, but the Minister of Agriculture has been the same for some time now, and we have come up with no comprehensive idea of how we will manage the agricultural sector. It's partial action itself. And every partial measure you propose is worse for the farmer. Already those you have accepted in this mandate are worse for farmers. What you're suggesting is worse for farmers. So don't talk about, I don't know, developing food chains, because you can't develop them if you're raising taxes on agricultural activity, if you're raising taxes on crops, if you're raising cadastral income. How are you going to do that? You take all those little people who live mainly in the countryside and you know they won't resist. You're collecting money to collect some of the big Jacks that stand for this government. You redistribute the money and you don't do anything else. However you turn it around and say it, the farmer is still enemy number one. Still. Any measure you took in this mandate fell also after the farmer or mainly after the farmer and the countryside. The privileged layers, which are the main consumers of the collection of money, should be a pension fund or even a health treasury. There are some of those categories that pick up a few ten million euros a year that they haven't earned and have enough money to pay for themselves. They have enough money, too much money to pay for it. They have several thousand dollars of high pensions, and they enjoy the status of a special resident, such as in the home of older citizens and so on. We pay the living community and so on. You have more than enough opportunities to capture what you need anywhere else. And that's it. I think that this novel needs to be accepted, because what the government is proposing is unpredictable, there are no grounds. As long as there are no calculations and time for these matters to be checked, there is also no point in any reform in the field of cadastral income to be reinstated. You need to see the effects first. This law makes it possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Mag. Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please choose a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Let me begin with a parable: Anyone pointing to another with a finger points with three fingers at him. Indeed, we have discussed much of the debate on the emerging government proposal for a law. Why? Because, from the very beginning of the consideration of this proposal, the debate focused on criticism of the first draft of the government law, which was published for public consultation in early April. And this law was not withdrawn, but was upgraded in the stage of public hearing, republished and further upgraded. So let me focus on the bill's draft. It is our duty to draw attention to the substantive problems that the law brings, as well as to the nomotechnic exercise, as the proposaler has imagined, and to say what such an exercise as the proposaler has imagined means. The written material did not show that it was a mistake, as was then identified in the discussion below. As for the content, once again, the reason for the adoption of the law is the lower buying-in prices, the acorns, the cold. However, it is proposed that the burden remain the same as it is this year. I'm just predicting that the government's bill of burden is lowering next year. And let me repeat again, because despite my extensive explanation in the previous intervention, there was another talk about the fact that the cadastral income was being paid. It's not worth it. Catastrophe income is the basis to be included in the tax base for income. Under the current regime, taking into account the average effective tax rate for taxable persons who also have a cadastral income in the tax base, of these 39 million and a half 29 million is actually included in the tax base on income, and the tax is paid for 5 million or 49 euros per employee per year, not per month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you, too. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you very much. See, at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Finance, representatives of certain farmers were told that this law was no better than what was then stopped, and it was accepted that it could only be increased by 10% for 2013 and which is currently being accounted for, including 2016. Farmers were threatening to come with tractors with manure, and I don't know what else to do if this marriage stays that way. On this basis, we then introduced this law to gain time to arrange for it to be brought into line. You have also been told that coordination will come again and that it will try to arrange for the law to be acceptable to farmers in some way. On the other hand, when you say that the cadastral income will be lower due to the cold, the ache. As far as I know, the cadastral income is accounted for as if this were not the case, but to adopt an intervention law to exempt those who have been injured from the payment of certain duties. Not with this law. It may happen to be lower in the following year than it was in 2013, but it will not be lower in 2018, 2019, 2020 and from 2020 onwards. You are now operating on 2017, where only 40% of this calculation will be made. Why don't we put this law into the second reading now, come in with the law, and find out next time it's going to take place on a regular basis, and then on the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Finance or on the committee responsible, we'll probably have these representatives invited back, which were the last time, and we'll see what they'll say when they have the final version of this law, which the government is supposed to adopt tomorrow. Why do you refuse this opportunity that we have given you? I said there was a misunderstanding that the diction was one we could fix with the amendment. But the purpose of this law is to extend the transitional period. And let's stick to it, that's all. If it is a willingness on your part to truly adopt a law that will be appropriate for all, then let us allow it. You don't lose anything unless you're afraid of the next phase, that's what this law is supposed to say on the competent committees when the people who have been to the previous board meeting will be there again. And you can do that today to say stop to this marriage. But if your intention is to accept something that will be best for those who are concerned with this law, then I do not see why not at this stage when we do not yet have this law on the table. The question is whether those groups that were last on the committee are already aware of this. The discussion that was held, read the magnetogram of the previous sitting, and it was not okay. And you also admitted this at the session itself, that we still need to talk and coordinate. In this week, as far as I have information, it's done quite a bit. Is it done enough? It will certainly be necessary to sit down and settle down once, because this topic is so complex and so important because it is food, self-sustainment is falling, agricultural land is growing, we are importing not all of what quality. It is our duty as Members to listen to the terrain. We've been sent from there to defend their interests. And when people in the field say to me, "How are they getting worse?" They ask me, "What are you doing up there?" That's what we owe. Not only to listen to officials who have been at the Ministry of Labour for 20, 25, 30 years, which no one will ever change again, but to follow trends that we will provide Slovenians with healthy home food, which is of course the best. So it seems to me that today's debate was not just about us wanting to guess, just like yesterday's, not when one was eventually adopted. So I ask that this goes down to the next reading and then we decide to move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether it wishes to under paragraph 71. There is someone else to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before you log in, please log in by pressing the microphone key. If you would also like to participate in the discussion by a representative of the proposal's proposal for Zvonko Lah and a representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will be given the word as the last representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Once again, public congratulations on your election. Despite the fact that there are some substantive controversy, who is right and who is wrong, I think it is right that this debate today has also been held. Our marriage is quite simple. Unlike the representative of the government and representatives of coalition parliamentary groups, who have said here that their new method, which is not yet known, will bring a more transparent, simple and stable system. Here we have a concrete proposal: what is more stable than what it is? It's only for one year. Especially in the fact that we have some serious natural disasters behind us. More. The ministry is supposed to prepare, "just in time", and send a bill to the National Assembly. But the last time we had a meeting on the cold, it was said that for the next two months, they could not tell what would be the situation on the ground and what measures the government would take. But for 2017, you already know what the weather will be like and, above all, what the draft cadastral income will be. And what seems most controversial to me when you talk about how your technical law will be systemic, talk about a transitional period. For you, the problem is that we are proposing a one-year transitional period exactly as it is now. You say, yes, it will be a little better since 2017, but the transition period ends in 2020, when these governments can no longer actually be. And when the coalition representatives said it would be bigger then, at least once more cadastral income. Respected, if at least once the cadastral income is greater, where it is stable, simple and transparent. While the same members of the coalition reject the proposals for a decision, when we want at least the opposition Members to get some analysis, where we would see what is wrong with the existing KD and what this super-savvy draft of KD you have been preparing for three years, we will obviously only accept it one month before the deadline. You will wait two months to get some basic ideas about what happened to the cold, but you know everything that will happen in 2017. And once again – why is the first consideration? Not for those five minutes of money – then we could go to a press conference and the matter would be over – but here on the open stage, I hope that we all hope to tell each other directly, let us say what is possible, what is not possible, where the government sees concerns, and given the government's opinion in fact with some editorial amendment of this nomotechnical obstacle that you consider to be a problem, we resolve. Tomorrow, when we vote, we will not adopt the law, as we have proposed, and we will give him the opportunity to go to the second and then to the third reading. And that's stable, our bill. But everything else is fiction. Like the fiction of cadastral income for next year. And why I think there is an urgent need to support KD's standstill at the 2013 level, is just what you announced, respected what will happen to KD in 2018, 2019 and 2020. It will happen exactly what you objected to in the pre-election period: a higher tax. Catastrophe income is not a tax, it's a base, but the tax will be higher, once higher. You say, in 2017 we will be goodhearted, and by 2020 we will be boom after farmer, especially after small farmers. Your Honor! Such an agricultural and financial policy is not a reflection of a serious country that cares for a small farmer. Therefore, I suggest you take the time before the vote tomorrow and press the sober key for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u201	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate in some part, at least in some part, also shows the relationship of us, at least some on my right, to Slovenian citizens and citizens. This is also an indication of how economic logic and agricultural intelligence fail. My colleague Lisec already mentioned the agricultural committee before me when we talked about the disaster that happened last week in April. Of course, all the injured and those representing the injured were able to say in some of the sentences about the problems they will face this year and some in the following year. However, the Ministry replied that it is still necessary to obtain an assessment that it is necessary to draw up a commission in order for this to take place, but when all this is gathered, this will be presented to the Government and then the results will be visible what can be expected from those who have been injured by freezing this wet snow. When you talk about this time with someone across the border or in neighbouring Austria, they have been talking there for some time about a specific amount per hectare. It does not take many experts on the ground many months to determine the actual damage. If I go back to today's bill, which is actually about the Slovenian farmer, about the Slovenian countryside, how they will live tomorrow and next year. I'm sad because it's often seen here by the opposition that it may even be plaguing the government. I think if we went to do a road survey on any part of Slovenia, certainly all people would not understand what a coalition or opposition in the National Assembly means. However, everyone is aware that we were elected to the national elections in this assembly to represent everyone, not only those in Ljubljana, but also those in Haloza, Gorički, Koper, Isoli, Dolenjska, in every place of this beautiful country. When the opposition proposes with its professional services, the reason for all this is the need on the ground, in which case our farmers, will be blocked. I think that we have not come across this opposition, either New Slovenia or the Slovenian Democratic Party, in yet another bill, in order for the coalition to know that the law is necessary, but there is still something to be added to any article. I don't think that's gonna be possible. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Such thinking and reliance on systemic solutions is not in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. With this, the country goes back, the Slovenian countryside is empty, young people do not see a perspective on small farms and those who are educated see a perspective abroad. This is not for the benefit of Slovenia. This is what we are responsible for in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u203	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now I have been thinking how and how much easier it would be for us if this coalition were able to establish, for example, a development partnership, where this issue would work by inviting opposition parliamentary groups to cooperate and negotiate systemic laws. Of course, I understand that we are getting on your nerves with the call for extraordinary meetings, with proposals for agenda items at the meetings of the National Assembly and so on. Understand us, we do not have all the data, we do not know what the proposal is today, or the draft new law on the determination of cadastral income, which is currently under discussion. You, of course, kind of logically have this information, and it seems strange to you what we're here now might be asking a crazy question. But tell me where and how to put myself in the defense of a pomur farmer, because I know how he's doing, because I live there for at least one day for a week or two, like I'm handling these problems and these questions that are very serious. We have long been no longer the grain of Slovenia. Not for a long time. And every year there are fewer farmers. If it goes that way – we must not go so far, ladies and gentlemen, because then we will lose this layer of agriculture! Now I have a very specific question. Maybe there's something else first. Perhaps, under the new cadastral income law, the cadastral income in the first year, when established, will be lower, perhaps in another lower income than it is now. That's hypocritical. Why? Because the elections are 2018. We have to have a simulation here, a fair simulation, what's going to be the distance, what's going to be the curve. Maybe it'll be exponential because the cadastral income will depend on the function of time. A specific question for the government. See, the Ministry of Finance has written a protest letter to the Beekeeping Association of Slovenia. Have you taken note of her comments? That was April 13th. We also received it from all the Members. On 12 May, all Members received the conclusions and requirements of the Council of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia regarding the law on the determination of cadastral income and the envisaged amendments to the Income Act. These conclusions are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar. I am now interested in whether you have received this and whether this has been taken into account and to what extent has been taken into account in the current draft law, which we do not know. I don't have time to count all these demands, but it's about 30 points. It says here that the requirements of the Agricultural Forestry Chambers agree with the following non-governmental organisations. Union of Farmers of Slovenia – Have you contacted and taken them into account? Association of Slovenia – did you take it into account? The Union of Slovenian Rural Youth – have you taken it into account?, The Union of Agriculturals of Slovenia – have you considered Slovenian farmers? Association of Forest Owners of Slovenia, Beekeeping Association I already said, Association of Family Vineyarders, Winemakers of Slovenia – did you take them into account? Association of Associations of Winegrowers and Winemakers of Slovenia, VINIS, Union of Sadjarski Societies of Slovenia, Association of Olive Associations, Association of Breeders of Breeding Breedings of Slovenia, Union of Breeders of Brown Breedings of Slovenia, Association of Breeders of Cattle of the Black-White Breed of Slovenia, Association of Bovine Breeders for Meat of Slovenia, Association of Sugar Beef Farmers of Slovenia – did you take them into account? It's still alive, and now it's probably going to die soon, because that nine million was going, and I don't know where. It's nobody's fault, because 9 million, yes, there's no money. Association of Breeders Association of Slovenia, Association of Tourist Farms of Slovenia, Association of Representatives of Agricultural Communities of Slovenia, Association of Vineyard Associations of Dolenjska, Association of Breeders of horses of the Slovenian cold-blooded breed, Slovenian Association of Horse Breeders of the Posavec breed and Slovenian Association of Horse Breeders of the Haflinger breed. My question is, did you take them into account? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u205	Mr. Jože Tankko, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your word. I think that the key problem of this government is that it is predicting some changes, and this is in time distress, but it never comes before us with some analysis of the financial effects, consequences, benefits, minuses, what is actually going to happen on the basis of some measure. The approach to this law, which is being drawn up by the government, is exactly the same. In times of time, this is said before the deadline for the adoption of the law, when there is no time for negotiation, not for coordination, the law will be adopted with immediate action for the current year. Here, however, some matters will have to be set up here and things will have to be handled financially in one way or another. I'm asking if that's rational. We know the cases of neighbouring countries, measures in a particular area, and such measures shall be implemented immediately only if they are more favourable to those who pay them. And all measures having certain consequences shall be taken at a time-limit so that the system can adapt to this. The adoption of laws when there is no time or opportunity for any quality coordination or data review is unrealistic. Not really from any government. Especially in that government is this unserious thing, which is supposed to have some feelings for small people. Or it is, on the other hand, that, above all, small people need to be struck. Speaking of which, what good measures have been taken for rural areas: inter-neighbourly aid, small work, valuations, carriers, increased KD base for tax collection and so on. This is now all these quality measures that will help to reduce the growth rate, which will help to increase the love of rural life and so on. That's probably what the government imagines. The truth is quite different. All measures taken in the field of agricultural policy lead to rural destruction. There is a breeding ground for great beasts, areas for great beasts, and high wildlings are increasing. The burden is on those who remain on the remaining surfaces, who therefore have even greater problems. No compensation is paid. I ask the Government whether it takes account of all these compensations, it pays these farmers dynamically when things arise when applications are filed, whether the time limits here are unknowably long. There are many measures that cannot lead to any significant change in the countryside. Even with the real estate tax law. Who are the ones most affected by the real estate tax law? Small economy and owners of agricultural land, read farmers. The large economy has not undergone any special changes in the real estate tax law. Key increases were in small craftsmen and agricultural land owners. Colleagues in the coalition, if these are the reforms that will save the imported country that you have managed to bring to your knees in these few years, and this government is only deepening, then may God have mercy on you! These are not measures that would contribute to solving certain things. The problems and burdens you impose on people are excessive, disproportionate, and based on wrong things. Those who have taken the property are untouchable, there is no measure, there is no proposed law that would be passed against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, President. Honorable representatives of the government! Today we are considering the Cadastrian Income Identification Act tabled by the SDS. This law has one objective: to extend the transitional period. Nothing else. We will not support this law or support it alone, because in the Modern Centre Party we advocate that this area should be fully regulated. This will be regulated by a government law that will be dealt with tomorrow in the Government, which is a technical law and will regulate the method of determining cadastral income. This law also contains a transitional period, so for 2017 it will not be completely amended, taking into account 40% of the calculated amount of KD. I think that this law does not govern anything but merely prolongs the existing situation, so this is a sufficient reason not to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u209	Mr. Simon Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Some things were said today, to which I, too, should respond on behalf of SMC. Catastrophe income has nothing to do with time. You need to be aware of that. The time as it is today, and we can still expect it, is one, if KD is tied to weather distress, then it is better that we now accept such a KD, so that we do not touch it again in hundreds of years, that it remains the way it is. As the climate changes, there will always be inconveniences, floods will freeze, colds, snow at impossible months and so on. This is reality, and the KD has nothing to do with it. It has a connection in this sense to look at the situation in agriculture over the last five years and then to know it. But otherwise, based on the fact that we have strange weather conditions, we tie up whether we accept a new KD or not, which makes no sense. It doesn't make any sense. The damage caused by a change in the environment caused by weather discomfort is addressed differently by intervention measures, possibly by intervention law, etc. But in this case, you have to have the data collected, so unfortunately, it takes a little over fourteen days. I know that we would like to gather this information first and then be able to take appropriate action. Rumor has it that now with this KD we're gonna hit a farmer after a little man. But let's really take a look, and we also have numbers on how we're going to hit that. And now I'm not going to talk about this transition period, I'm talking about a period when we already have a full KD. Most farm households, almost 70% will pay for the cadastral income of exactly EUR 0. That's how we're gonna hit them. That's what we say, the little farmers we're hitting on, we're gonna charge them 0 euros. They'll know each other so much about this KD. Others say the remaining 30% will pay €65 in the whole year, if I calculate it correctly. That's what we're talking about now. If I made a mistake, then the secretary might fix me, but I don't think I did. In short, it's not that we want to hit a little man. Now you've seen, in fact, if we look at it in money, it's not that much fun. As a percentage, it is possible to hear more, but it must be realized that KD has been so far, and everyone who knows it, including farmers' organisations, agrees that the methodology so far was no longer viable. KD was undervalued, so it's fair to make this right. And if that means an increase for someone, that's still fair. It's not only fair that you're getting smaller. As far as procedure is concerned, it's true. I had previously spoken with Mr Laho's proposaler, and, yes, you have introduced this law at a time when you did not know what we have now agreed on. It is therefore purely legitimate to say that you have tabled this law because there were indeed some comments on the proposal at the time. But as the secretary has already said, this is a normal procedure, so you have a public hearing to collect all the impressions and suggestions and then fix it. That's why we're here. But you must also understand that we have been working intensively on this law, including myself and the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, and this is a very important topic for me, and it is important that it be regulated in a way that we will all be content. But since we know what's coming, but it's coming now by the end of the week, it's not going to be like it wants to be presented to the public now that it's going to be again in one distant future, that we don't know what we're going to be. No, it's gonna be here this week. With this law of ours, we will settle these matters and therefore we will not support this marriage of yours. Not because you filed it or because you'd like to be framed. That's really not what this is about. We believe you didn't put it in order for you to tease us. You just filed it on the basis of that first version, and we reject it on the basis of this second version of our law. But we believe that in the end, we will really make a good marriage this time, because it's time to cut it. These extensions should be stopped. We have this in my opinion, and you and me, personally, I know that I have enough of this, that things don't happen if they can happen. Where they can't be, you don't have another option. But here they can happen, and they will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you, too. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday 19 in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 5. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. The bill was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u212	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Allow me a brief explanation. You have before you the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. The amendments are proposed to improve solutions that have proven to be weak or difficult to implement in the past. The more effective promotion of coherent regional development has been our basic guide and the final objective of the proposed changes. Let's go in one order. The draft law addresses current issues concerning regional development agencies, in particular their ownership structure of the deletion from the RRA records and their public function in the regions. In the ownership structure of the RRA, there will no longer be less than a third of the establishment of one municipality in the framework of public interest, and the institution remains a majority public property. The proposal provides for the regional development agencies to elect a Council of the region with a call for proposals giving priority to institutions with a higher proportion of the public impact. We propose simplifications in replacing a member of the development council of the region so that the Council, by a majority of the votes of all members, can replace an individual member if the replacement is proposed by a body that has also proposed a member. In addition, municipalities with a development coefficient under the Community Financing Act of less than 0.9 are added to border problems. Come in. The relationship to the special pomurical development law is clarified. A problem area with high unemployment will not be able to be defined as an area receiving aid under the post-moral development law. New tasks in the area of promoting and developing entrepreneurship and the culture of innovation, the implementation of regional programmes for internationalisation of the economy and spatial planning at regional level shall be added to the development tasks of the countries carried out at regional level. It is deleted that arrangements for the development of the regions shall be concluded for four years. The agreement for the development of the regions will be valid until the period of duration of the projects included or replaced by a new agreement. We further propose that the smaller transfers between the items of the business and financial plan of the Slovenian Regional Development Fund be decided by the Minister responsible for regional development and not by the Government. In addition, it is proposed that the fund is owned by a fund that ensures the operation of the fund and provides for a way to invest the fund’s free funds. Next, In the case of indigenous national communities and the Roma community, the proposal removes the uncertainty about the type of incentives provided by the Slovenian Regional Development Fund and the State budget. The State budget provides grants and the Fund with reimbursements, as well as grants for indigenous national communities. With regard to cohesion regions, we propose deleting the provision that, in the implementation of the programmes of the European Union or parts thereof carried out only within one cohesion region, the performance function be transferred to the unit of the competent national authority for regional policy in this cohesion region. Regional State aid and regional policy emergency measures shall be subject to a more detailed allocation procedure. In addition, some legal editorial corrections are proposed due to legislation adopted in the European Union and Slovenia following the entry into force of the USSR 2. Finally, let me stress that the effects of all the measures of the law adopted in 2011 and amended in 2012 cannot yet be fully evaluated. This is why we have not proposed greater interventions to the law. However, the changes will allow, in our opinion, faster and easier implementation of coherent regional development programmes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat is responsible, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State with colleagues! The government novel of the Law on Promoting Harmonised Regional Development brings some changes to the regime, but for the whole system there are no major shifts. With regard to uncertainties in the management of regional development agencies, the law proposes to elect a regional development agency of the Council of the Region for a programming period, by means of a public call led by a municipality from which the Council of the Region or a municipality designated by the Council of the Region is chaired. We find it inappropriate to propose that the municipality from which the President of the Council of the Region could lead a public call for the selection of the contractor for the performance of public regional tasks. In our view, there is no reason for such a privilege for the congregation from which the President comes. In the current regime, the Minister for the performance of these tasks shall be the authority of the regional development agencies. In New Slovenia, we see no point in introducing change, as the solution to date has been appropriate in our view. Article 24 of the bill provides for defined border areas. Enlargement of border areas is proposed. In New Slovenia, we note that the funding foreseen in this area is already declining for existing areas, so the expansion of border areas does not bring solutions. In the past, it has proved that the congregations had the greatest problems at the border. Let's just remember the migrant crisis. But we are not idealists, so we do not have the hope that this expansion of border areas would be followed by a budget. As regards financing for the development of areas where the Roma community lives, the Fund has only sources of return, such as guarantees, loans and so on. In the opinion of the Government, however, return resources are not suitable to address the Roma problem. The proposal for a law therefore clearly provides for financial incentives in the State budget for faster development of areas where the Roma community lives. The Government's argument that return resources are not suitable to address the Roma issue and that grants must be fixed for them raises the question of why Roma need special treatment and special determination of grants. Nevertheless, the law also brings some positive changes. Among the development tasks of countries in the region in the public interest, the proposal adds: promotion and development of entrepreneurship and culture of innovation, implementation of regional programmes of internationalisation of the economy and spatial planning at regional level. That's what we welcome. The law also simplifies that transfers between items of the business and financial plan of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development will be subject to decision by the Minister. The proposal for a law specifies in more detail that candidates for representatives of municipalities in the development council of the region are proposed by the municipal council. During the term of office, the Development Council may, on a proposal from the Municipal Council, replace a member who no longer fulfils the conditions, for example, his municipal function shall cease. In Novi Slovenija, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u216	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, dear colleague and colleague, once again a very nice greeting to all! If we have stable regions, otherwise we have only statistical regions so far, far away from being, as it is said, a happy solution, we will have such a successful and stable country. If, on the one hand, we have a problem area with a markedly high unemployment rate, such as some kind of a ticking social bomb, and on the other hand an extremely rich privileged region, which is fortunate to have received additional incentives in the past. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we have seen the need to amend the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development because we have detected certain bad practices, which has also happened with regional development agencies. As a result, these amendments, as defined in Article 20 of this Law, support that the municipalities and the functioning alone, the successful functioning of these agencies are simplified and also brought into such a situation that they can function normally. But it's not enough to change the law itself. To see why this regional development agency is in such a poor financial economic situation. Because they have been absolutely foreshadowed, they have been very costly due to uncontrolled employment and, on the other hand, there has been an empty space in the acquisition of new projects, financial resources from the financial perspectives. And this transition period from one financial perspective to another has caused major problems. This could be mitigated if these agencies had real control. But obviously we are back there when something is in the state's hands, that also by public means the masters, to cancel the most important mechanisms. Let us hope that, due to a certain change in the law and greater seriousness of all actors in this story, this bad practice will not repeat itself. It is very important that the law provides at least those basic conditions for local development potentials to be activated in these so-called statistical regions. This is already a little more difficult because it depends on the representatives of the local community themselves in the regional world, and then also on the state hearing that their views are incorporated into all the necessary documents. Here I am also referring to the state budget, and not least to the strategy for the regional development of Slovenia, which we have not yet had. Let us hope that we will now get this document from the government because it will be legally bound to do so. This also eliminates one systemic deficiency. As it is said, it is important that the development of the regions be aligned with the implementation plans of the operational programmes of the European Cohesion Policy as well as with budgetary planning. That is why I have always advocated that budgetary planning should be projective. At that time, development projects will also have their place and, above all, those projects that will be assessed to be useful both for the region and for the country as a whole. This is the only way to expect normal sustainable economic growth. It is very important, I must point out that the problems of an area such as Pomurje will not be harmed in the sense that they will therefore be excluded from the actions of European cohesion policy and rural development policy. I agree and agree with the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament, but it is understandable that double funding is excluded for the same purposes, which is also contrary to European rules. I would also like to see the success of this law and the regional development itself, so that certain tasks can also be deconcentrated and transferred to regions. This whole system of regional development is extremely complex, because, as I have already pointed out on the one hand, we do not have regions, so this law will still be as successful as it can be without regions in the right sense. I would like to point out that it is important to take account of all good proposals from stakeholders such as the Slovenian Municipality Community, GIZ RRA due to the Pomurska region, the Murska Sobota Development Centre and, of course, indigenous national communities in further procedures for the adoption of amendments to this Act. It is of paramount importance that national communities also get what the Constitution already provides for them on the one hand, and on the other, many legal acts, laws. We therefore expect that the amendments to Article 14 will also be implemented appropriately and that the real foundations, the material basis for the development of the economic foundations of indigenous national communities, will be provided. As we know, this is to some extent already, but it is not, at the Public Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development, but this matter is far from being satisfactorily resolved. If we achieve at least two very important objectives with these amendments to the law, we will be pleased. There is an increase in economic, environmental and social capital in the region, an improvement in systemic solutions to achieve rationalisation of administrative procedures and, of course, it is of paramount importance to address structural problems in problem areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you, too. The position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group will be presented by Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, according to the proposer, brings changes and additions in two areas, if I am generalising. First of all, the system solutions which have proven to be weak or difficult to implement after the entry into force of the law in 2012 or are inconsistent with the amended European legislation should be improved. Second, they cited the rationalisation of administrative procedures, as already mentioned, in order to facilitate the implementation of the law and additional savings in the use of public funds. We believe that some of the objectives of amending the law are correct, because in recent years there has been a constant focus on the problems in this area. We also observe questionable solutions. However, on general matters, I would not be taking your time now, but in the context of our position, I will focus mainly on the content that is related to the issue of the economic basis of indigenous national communities. In the context of this law, I should also like to begin by thanking my colleague, Mr Lajo, who has already pointed out some of the content and problems. Initially, I would like to point out that we support the proposed solution to address the confusion and difficulties in financing the development of the Roma community or the areas where its representatives reside, including the provision that incentives for that community should also be set out in the State budget. In accordance with the legislation, the text of the amendment was also sent to the competent organisations of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, which forwarded their opinions and proposals to supplement the law in terms of indigenous national communities on this important content. The above-mentioned opinions reiterate the systemic problem that has been emerging in this area for more than a decade and which has so far not been successfully addressed by any government in order to effectively address such incentives in order to ensure the economic basis of indigenous national communities. The current amendment of the law is therefore a new opportunity for this systemic problem to finally begin to be resolved, and from this place I am also again calling on the proposer, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent ministry, to listen to the proposals of the national community. This is, among other things, its commitment, which is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. We also keep our attention to the problems in recent years at the meetings of the Commission for National Communities and conclude on this, but so far all the replies from the Government or other competent institutions or merely formal or substantively empty or unfortunately rejected. The proposed amendment to the law should take into account our proposals, since among other principles it is stated that the complementary proposal will take into account the principle of subsidiarity, which should also mean, in the context of Article 64 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, that decisions on the creation of an economic base are taken by the indigenous national community within or in agreement with the national community itself. National community organisations in their opinions and in other letters to the Government point out that the funds provided are allocated to enterprises or entities in the national mixed area, which is not the case, but in recent years it has proved that this does not solve the problem of creating the economic basis of the national communities themselves. I would like to point out that the creation of the economic foundation of the national communities was necessary or that it would be necessary, in particular, because of their existence and development, not because of any other circumstances or reasons. One of the above-mentioned letters to the Government is written by the umbrella organisations, and I quote: "The economic basis of the national mixed area does not necessarily coincide with the economic basis of the national communities and the development of the first does not necessarily mean the development of the latter, while the created economic basis of the national community certainly contributes to the development of the national mixed area." We add that there will be no mistake that the comprehensive development of the area where the national communities live is very important and necessary, but the economic basis of the national communities themselves must also be created. In doing so, however, it is necessary to find appropriate systemic solutions which, unfortunately, have not yet been or have not been found. On the basis of the above, we propose that the provision of amending the law relating to indigenous national communities should be supplemented by clearly defining, in addition to the development of so-called national mixed areas, the importance of development or the creation of an economic basis for national communities or activities for which money is consistently provided under the national budget. By the way, this is guaranteed in the adopted budgets for 2016 and 2017 to a certain extent. In the context of the explanations of the articles of the law which are being amended, the applicant makes it clear that the purchases from the privatisation of the social property which, in the past, were the only sources under the law in the area of the creation of an economic base have practically dried up. By the way, systemically, as I have already pointed out, this use has not been properly set up. Therefore, the proposer proposes that all other existing options should be used for this purpose in the future. We agree with that. It is also necessary to implement a provision that the State may authorise the self-governance of the national community to carry out certain tasks in this area under national jurisdiction. I will not refer here to a specific text of the Constitution which gives a clear basis for this, but the law is so formulated that it already covers this text. On the basis of this community, they may establish this fund for the development of their own economic activity or for this appropriate institution, which, in terms of transparency, will have to operate in accordance with the principles of other such institutions of national interest. Finally, a number of consultations have been organised in the competent ministry over the last period in search of solutions, where, at least according to our information, they have not come up with satisfactory solutions that would fully address this issue from the point of view of the national communities. This is also why, in the context of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, a system of creating the economic foundation of national communities is being built up meaningfully, so that their proposals and views are finally taken into account. The proposal to amend the law will also be discussed at a meeting of the Commission for National Communities. On the basis of the opinion of the competent organisations of the national communities, we will propose concrete solutions or amendments aimed at effectively creating the economic basis of the national communities. In doing so, we are counting on the constructive cooperation of the executive branch. Once again, I stress that we want to achieve a systemic solution that will effectively enable the creation of an economic foundation of national communities, and thus the development of the region. Formal amendments to the law are not necessary, so we expect a sincere intention for substantive upgrade so far in our view of an inefficient system. The amendment of the law represents a good opportunity, as I have already said, for this, so we will support the conclusion that the amendment of the law is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you, too. Ms Andreja Potočnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u220	Dear Presidents, colleagues from the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! The Act on coherent regional development was adopted already in 1999 to promote coherent regional development, allocate development incentives and criteria for identifying areas with specific development problems. Subsequent changes, additions, last one, the fifth was adopted in 2012, mainly due to the urgent resolution of situations that have brought fragmentation and opacity of the regime. Today's bill pursues two key objectives. Firstly, improvements in systemic solutions that have proven to be weak or difficult to implement since the law was enacted in 2012 and will not facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the law. Secondly, rationalisation of administrative procedures that will facilitate implementation and additional savings in the use of public funds. We believe that the adoption of the law is necessary because of the need to preserve the situation of certain RRAs, which would otherwise have been deleted from the register, which would be a severe sanction for the relatively leakage of infrastructure and programmes in the area of regional development, but not least that would have consequences for the development of the regions. It is also important to take into account the fact that development agencies will also have to carry out their functions and objectives in the future with less funding. The practice over the years shows that we have learned to draw on funds for regional development, but we must also show that we can also include projects that offer long-term sustainable models and will also include a greater share of our own funding resources. Let me mention the key changes to today's bill. The development tasks of the State in the region in the public interest are added: the promotion and development of entrepreneurship and cultural innovation, the implementation of regional programmes, the internationalisation of the economy, the development of competences for employees and spatial planning at regional level. It is further repealed that, within the framework of a public share in a regional development agency, none of the municipalities should have more than a third of the founding share and that, within a public establishment, the proportion of municipalities must be dispersed as a matter of urgency, since by the deadline set by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development of 2012, until 28 July 2016, the ownership structure will not be recast in the five development regions in order to meet these two conditions, which should be deleted from the register, which would have had negative consequences, as previously said, for the development of those regions. The funding ratio for general development tasks at regional level of 60% of state resources with 40% of municipal funding for annual provision is changed. The criterion for the designation of municipalities belonging to border areas is supplemented by the inclusion of municipalities with a statutory development coefficient of less than 0,9 if they border border municipalities or municipalities directly bordering border municipalities. Due to the recently adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2015, which extended the period of implementation of this Act for two years, the possibility of double eligibility of the Pomurje Development Region to regional incentives is eliminated by this proposal. Thus, in accordance with the specific pomura law and in accordance with the system law on the promotion of coherent regional development. At the same time, it is prevented by this special pomura law. As a region with the highest unemployment rate in the new financial perspective 2014-2020, certain measures would not be justified at all. The law also provides for a more detailed procedure for the implementation of regional State aid on the basis of a direct application. As a result of all of this, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u221	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, for her, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State and a team from the Ministry are warmly welcomed! Finally, we have a law to promote coherent regional development. The law has a very significant title and, of course, we agree on the title. A coherent regional development is necessary for Slovenia and should be the priority of this government. Unfortunately, many acts of the existing coalition testify to this. Let's take a look at some. In preparing the basis for drawing up European funds from the new financial perspective 2014-2020, despite the call by the representative of the regions, you did not want to prepare two separate operational programmes, separate for the Eastern and Western cohesion regions, where it would be clear how much funding belongs to each region. We are talking about regions that are at very different levels of development. While the Western cohesion region is 97% of the European Union's development, the Eastern cohesion region is only 68% of the European Union's development. There is therefore a significant difference between regions. In doing so, it should be pointed out that there are still statistical regions within these two cohesion regions that point to a significant greater gap in development. We have the Central Slovenian region, which is at 116% of the European Union's development, while we have regions such as Pomurje, Zasavje, a karst area where development is even below 60%, according to the average of the European Union. Regions that do not reach 75% of the EU average are considered less developed regions under European cohesion policy. It is correct to recall, however, that in the negotiations for the funds of the new financial perspective, we have acquired an additional half billion euro at the expense of the less developed Eastern cohesion region. Today, however, it is a pity that it is part of the funds allocated to the eastern region and is known how much the eastern region will actually be allocated 1.2 billion. The Western region is allocated EUR 0.8 billion, while there is a difference, that is the value of EUR 1 billion for the whole of Slovenia, which, of course, can also theoretically mean that all of these funds will be allocated to the already over-developed Western region. And here we ask ourselves how this follows the principle of coherent regional development. Would it not be right to encourage coherent regional development in all decisions, or would it not be right to think about coherent regional development at all times and everywhere? Would it not be appropriate for more resources to be allocated to regions that are under-averagely developed, particularly those that do not reach even 75% of the average of development at European Union level? You have introduced tax receipts, and this before you have taken care of Slovenia's even coverage with the Internet, which means that individuals who want to carry out activities in individual areas are already on the start at a much worse starting point, but there you have forgotten the consistent regional development. A few days ago, the President of the Government and the Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana signed an agreement on the implementation of 34 projects totalling EUR 300 million. It is right to play an important role in the capital. It should be noted, however, that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana. In particular, projects in areas that are fundamentally lagging behind from the EU average and also from the Slovenian average would be encouraged in the first place. In view of the many actions of this government coalition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are asking whether we can even talk about coherent regional development today. Of course, we cannot go beyond the fact that some regional development agencies do not work as they should. Let us even recall the nonsense that the government of Borut Pahor has enjoyed in the past when, despite the existing development agency in the region, it established an additional so-called government project office. This same project office carried out a work that could be undertaken by a regional development agency. Of course, quickly after the establishment of this office, it was clear why this office was needed at all. Of course, it was only because of the interest of individuals or a narrower group of people. We can no longer afford the same in the future. If we focus on the proposal to amend the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, we can see that the law brings a number of major changes. By amending the law, the individual development tasks of the State are transferred to the regional level in a certain way, or by amending the law the tasks performed in the region are extended in the public interest. You have thus added to the promotion and development of entrepreneurship and cultural innovation, the implementation of regional programmes for internationalisation of the economy, spatial planning at regional level, other similar regional activities, schemes and projects following the decision of the Ministry of Content and the agreement of the Ministry. We are, of course, wondering in what form and with what powers spatial planning is transferred to the regional level and whether this is coordinated with the competent ministries. We also wonder what are the so-called other similar regional activities, schemes and projects following a decision of the Ministry of Content and with the consent of the Ministry, and on what basis will the Ministry provide for these activities and projects. The word "can" in the law is completely inconclusive and inappropriate. We are also wondering whether deleting the provision on the urgent dispersed proportion of municipalities within the public institution's share of regional development agencies is the right way. It is right to stress the current situation of regional development agencies, which is not least exposed to the price of the proposed law. We have 12 regional development agencies, of which six public institutions, one institution and five companies with limited responsibility. At the same time, 14 other development institutions have been entered in the register, which together with regional development agencies carry out general development tasks in the region. Do we really need that many? Would not these twelve regional agencies be enough? Finally, they are financed at the expense of taxpayers. The share is covered by the Ministry and the share is covered by the municipalities. The law does not place the problem of coherent regional development on the right footing, nor are the solutions comprehensive. It contains some good solutions that we support. Some, however, are deeply misleading in their marriage. If this is intentional or not, of course it will be evident from the upcoming hearings and the debate on the law. Because of the very importance of coherent regional development, we hope that the law will be properly corrected through parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u223	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying hi to everyone, President. The government has embarked on the amendment of the Law on promoting coherent regional development from simple development in order to remedy the shortcomings identified so far. The changes are primarily related to the transformation of the ownership structure of regional development agencies. All 12 regional development agencies in Slovenia must meet the legal condition that they are owned by the majority public. The transformation of regional development agencies into public agencies has not yet fully recovered. A key instrument of this law is an agreement for the development of regions, including prior treatment and information adopted on the preparation of regional development arrangements. In the Desus Group, we believe that there is a need for agreement and cooperation between the competent ministers and representatives of the regions on all possibilities for co-financing concrete projects. The implementation of individual projects means improving the competitiveness of the economy and, at the same time, improving the quality of life of the local population. Of course, there is always a complication with the issue of the number of projects, the conditions for the call for tender, and in particular about the financial support itself. Therefore, the negative reaction of some mayors is not surprising, since each of them is trying to obtain the largest share of the financial bank, which is understandable, and this is likely to be agreed by the individual citizen who wants the municipality from which it is based to receive the largest number of projects. The fight for economic and social progress is, of course, also present at regional level. In the Desus Group, we call for an end to the developmental differences between the regions. It is not only the successful use of European funds at the level of the country as a whole but also the fair and equitable distribution of funds between regions. Already in the context of the consideration of the National Reform Programme for 2016-2017, it was clear that Slovenia would have €3.2 billion available by 2020. The Ambassadors and Members of the Desus Group also find the funds available for active ageing totalling €43 million important. We pay particular attention to this item due to well-known projections of the rapid rise in the number of elderly in the EU countries in the coming years. At the same time, it is worth noting that Slovenia has been above average in drawing on European funds and has taken fourth place since the end of 2015 compared to the other Member States of the European Union. The same behaviour of Slovenia is expected in the new financial perspective. In the Desus Group, we are aware of what this means for the regional and local development of the country. At the same time, we are confident that today's systemic solutions, as well as individual administrative simplifications, will make a significant contribution to faster and more effective implementation of development plans, so we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u225	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u226	Dear Mr President, good evening, colleague and colleague! The law on promoting coherent regional development, at least in the areas of removing known obstacles and original indiscretions, constitutes an improvement of the system for the preparation of development projects and the related absorption of European funds. As such, not to repeat everything that has already been said, there are three key solutions: a deletion of a provision whereby none of the municipalities should have more than a unitary share in the RRA, administrative simplifications that will facilitate the planning and implementation of projects and the regulation of the current situation, where double funding of projects in the so-called problem areas is possible. In particular, the provision on the transformation of the RRA requires action, in due time and in a timely manner, since, under the current law of the RRA, they cannot have a municipality of founders with more than a third share of ownership. This provision, as such, makes business difficult and prevents further complications and inefficiency, therefore it is essential that the law before us enter into force by the end of July this year. Other legal solutions primarily improve the possibility of cooperation in the region, municipalities and countries in the preparation and implementation of development projects that will be available in the new financial perspective. Given the fact that we were successful in the previous one, it would be necessary to continue the practice in this one. It is therefore a technical law, which does not change the existing concept of regional development in its core, and so for us at least a little surprise is a requirement for a general debate on this law, as slow adoption of solutions and the elimination of shortcomings and existing errors is in fact a major obstacle and a threat to the functioning of these institutions and organisations responsible for development projects and thus the associated absorption of European funds. As we can see from the point of view, the Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u227	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u228	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area of regional development that we are going to talk about today is one of the key issues that we all agree on in this regard, at least in our words, which must be addressed. At the same time, it is one of those areas where there is no positive change, because there is simply no clear concept and measures are often a network of benefits for the state and local political establishment. Regional development needs more than the corrections brought by this novel. Further consideration of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development in the United Left will not be opposed. Regional differences and inequalities in Slovenia are extremely large and have increased in recent years. State policy in the area of regional development avoids the word poverty, although its distribution is strongly linked to regional differences. Of course, the eastern part of Slovenia, in particular the Lower Posava region, the Pomurska region and the Podrav region, where about a quarter of the population live below the poverty line. The municipalities with the poorest people include those economically affected areas that have been deindustrialised rapidly in recent years or decades. We could talk about the causes of global capitalism and the role of the European Union as well as the absence of the development concepts of all governments in the last decade and, of course, privatisation and tycunization, but instead of listing, it is our task to find solutions. In Article 9 of the Law, "encouragement and development of entrepreneurship and the culture of innovation" is added to the development tasks of countries in the region in the public interest. Unfortunately, this is only a poor neoliberal slogan, and in practice it usually means highly questionable promotions where high resources are shared through clientele networks and the effect is the transfer of responsibility and guilt to an individual. This is simply not and cannot be a public interest which should be applied by regional policy. We have heard many times that regional policy is not a social policy, but only a development policy, but real development without social policies cannot be led, especially in today's political and economic circumstances. Regional policy must be developmental, but not in the sense of so-called promotion of cultural innovation, and of course it must also be social. The risk of poverty in relation to individual municipalities is also largely linked to the age composition of the population, as young people leave, but also with the education structure. There is a great overlap between the poorest municipalities and those with the lowest share of graduates of tertiary education. For example, the Municipality of Kostel, which has been deeply affected by the placing of cutting wire at the border, is an extremely damaging move by the Government of Mir Cerar. The Municipality of the Church is one of those with a population of over 65 years, the educational structure is among the lowest, the unemployment rate is almost 19% and the average net salary is almost 200 euros below the national level. On the other hand, this area has many potential for development and is precisely from this point of view the story of Slovenia in small. It has opportunities for green and sustainable tourism, for forestry and forestry and so on. These are certainly two extremely important potentials that should play a key role in regional development. In addition, in the Municipality of Kostel, in the area of Nature 2000, our purest water comes from an unspoiled nature, which has recently been very quiet, while all of us talked and were paying attention – probably deliberately – to the refugees who were never seen by 95% of the Slovenian population, while the water of the Church landed in the hands of the Arabs. And while we're here talking about entering water into the constitution, we've run out of more than half of the water resources. If we think that the next war will be a war for water, we can think of how bad Slovenia is and our position is obviously deteriorating. The new Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development brings some corrections, including additional powers to allocate funds, while at the same time changing the management of the assets of the Regional Development and Rural Development Fund, where investment liberalisation is taking place, which is quite controversial in terms of the structural importance of the Fund and the security of the funds it has at its disposal. In addition, the Ministry is trying to regulate the situation in areas where the Roma community lives and, above all, several changes have been proposed in the functioning of regional development agencies. The role of the latter is very questionable, from the efficiency and transparency of their operation and the availability of resources to the machination and apparent exploitation. What has happened in the case of the Mura Regional Development Agency, and in one of the most underdeveloped environments in our country, where the unemployed is a poor fifth of the working population, we can only guess. The major positive changes brought by the proposed legislation will not be made, as without a comprehensive national development programme that builds on polycentric, economic and social development, the current regional inequalities will not be exceeded. As it is said, however, there is consistent regional development of the wishes of all of us who are aware that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana with its surroundings, so despite all the concerns about the proposal of the Law on Promoting coherent regional development, we will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u229	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor to prepare Mrs Vojka Šergan and Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me one quote; a quote from this booklet, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. "The Italian and Hungarian indigenous communities are guaranteed the right to develop economic activities to preserve their national identity. The State is materially and morally in favour of these rights." The first legal form in which this concept of the economic basis of the national communities came into existence was many years ago in the Privatisation Act, which stipulates that 2.5% of the purchase, then purchase, is intended to create an economic basis for the national community. Since then, however, the purpose of these funds has taken many other paths, but they have never achieved the purpose for which these funds have been allocated. And that's what's happening now and also in this marriage. Thus, there are actually certain elements here, if not the unconstitutionality but the unconstitutionality, because some form of public funding is earmarked for something else, but not for the purpose for which it is collected and intended to be allocated. This is probably contrary to the Public Finance Act and so on — if they were very strict. I do not intend to be critical of the fund, to this lending mechanism and so on. I know of all the good intentions, and I know that in these cases there were no abuses with us. Everything went according to law. The problem is the law. There's a problem in the Sales Act. It would be necessary — I don't know if this is possible — but by this law, to erase what is stated in the Sales Act, which is actually, and so on, only one part of that law actually applies, if I understand that other things have changed so much that three quarters of the articles are useless there. So we are faced with the possibility of finally settling this matter. There are several ways, in my opinion, how this can be achieved. He has already talked about one of his colleagues Göncz, and others are possible, so I count on that from here to the second reading we will find a way to realize what is written in the Constitution and to enable national communities as entities, because credit can be taken by everyone and also open the activity by everyone. This is a special right for national communities, as such, to create their own economic base or to contribute in this way, which is self-evident, to the development of the territory where they reside historically. I hope that we will be able to resolve this problem permanently in this mandate, as it is still going on – but the funds are in the fisheries fund, in addition to those now available in the 2016 and 2017 budgets at the Ministry of Economy for these purposes, so the funds are, they should only be directed to the right address for the right purposes. As a national community, we are prepared to contribute these resources to the development of the regions where we live, because otherwise, I repeat, it is not possible to imagine things, because they are resources that will then be public for certain purposes, but from national communities. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u231	Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues! The coherent regional development law has substantive solutions, concrete effects in practice and public financial effects. Amendments and additions to the Harmonised Regional Development Act are proposed in two areas of improvement of systemic solutions that have proven to be weak or difficult to implement in 2012 after the implementation of the Harmonised Regional Development Act and will facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the law and rationalise administrative procedures that will facilitate implementation and additional savings in the use of public funds. Under the new law, an agreement will no longer be drawn up for the development of the regions for a period of four years, but these arrangements will be linked to the implementation of the operational programmes of European cohesion policy and budgetary planning and to the content of the projects involved. This is certainly a major step forward because all agencies have encountered difficulties in implementing European cohesion policy because it was planned for four years and projects could then have a longer period or a possibility of drawing on European cohesion funds. Then an agreement is also proposed – the agreement for the development of the region will apply until the period of duration of the projects involved or replacements with new ones. The draft law adequately regulates the deletion of the regional development agency from the register. Until the selection of a new regional development agency, it shall carry out the tasks of supporting the functioning of the Council and the Council of the Region of the Municipality, whose representative shall be the President of the Council of the Region, unless the Council of the Region designates another municipality. This has also proved in practice that it is important, given that some agencies have closed down in the past and even in the future, that an agency is to be terminated and will be terminated. The draft law provides for a detailed procedure for the granting of financial assistance in the event of urgent regional policy measures, where the aid is granted by the Ministry of Content and where it is granted by the State Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development and Rural Development. It also provides for a detailed procedure for the award of regional aid without a call for tender on the basis of an application and a direct contract. By repealing the provision that none of the municipalities may have more than a third of the founder’s share in the regional development agency, the administrative burden in the municipalities shall be reduced. With regard to regional development agencies, the terminological uncertainty of the concept of a legal person in majority public ownership is also addressed, which is replaced by a more appropriate concept of a legal person with a majority public influence on the basis of the majority share of the subscribed capital or the founding share and with the majority influence of the municipalities within public influence. This is therefore not a different substantive solution from the present one, but merely a terminological ambiguity. A more flexible regulation of the decision-making process on minor transfers within the business and financial plan of the Regional Rural Development Public Fund is proposed; then transfers between the items of the Fund's business and financial plan may be decided by the Minister responsible for regional development up to the amount of the funds set out in the Fund's founding act. It is specified in more detail that the municipal council proposes a candidate for municipal representative to the development council of the region, and such a decision shall be adopted by the Council with a majority of the votes of all members; then the term of office of alternate member shall be from the adoption of the decision until the end of the term of office. This proposal simplifies the process of replacing members of the development council of the region and thus improves its functioning. It is therefore proposed to amend paragraph 5 by also excluding double funding, including for certain regions, such as the Law on the Development Support of the Pomur Region in the period 2010-2015, which could constitute a double eligibility for the extended implementation period of 2 years. That's what this law will do. It is also prevented that, due to Pmurje's special development law as a region with the greatest unemployment in the new financial perspective, certain measures of European cohesion policy and rural development policy would not be eligible for new resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u233	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Prepare Mr. Janko Weber and Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, colleagues and fellow Members! The amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development are proposed in two areas. Firstly, the improvement of systemic solutions which, following the implementation of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development in 2012, have proved to be weak or difficult to implement or, in breach of the amended European legislation on State aid and European cohesion policy and rural development policies, will facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the law. Secondly, rationalisation of administrative procedures that will facilitate the implementation of additional savings and use of public funds. We adopt the law under time pressure until the deadline set by the Law on Promoting coherent regional development of 2012, which is 28 July 2016. In five development agencies – Central Slovenian, Podravski, Pomurski, South-Eastern Slovenia and Coastal-Kraška – the world will not be able to reshape the ownership of the structure so that it meets the requirements of the law. As a result, some regional development agencies should be deleted from the register and this would have negative consequences for the development of these regions and for the overall policy of regional development. The proposal for a law therefore proposes abolishing the order that, within the framework of a public interest in a regional development agency, none of the municipalities should have more than a third of the founding share, so that, within a public institution, the share of the municipalities must be dispersed. In addition, the law solves the problem created by the adoption of the Law on the Development Support of the Pomur region in the period 2010-2015, which extended the implementation period of this law for 2 years, by eliminating the possibility of double eligibility of the Pomur development region to regional incentives. Other changes include: among instrument operators, programmes to promote competitiveness in problem areas with very high unemployment are added by institutions that already carry out the country's development tasks in the region. However, their inclusion is possible only if they are the same instruments, as it would not be rational for different institutions to implement them. In smaller transfers between items within the business and financial plan of the Republic of Slovenia’s Public Fund for Regional Development and Rural Development, the Government will no longer decide on them, but will be able to be decided by the competent minister up to the amount of funds determined by the founding act, which represents a more flexible regime. The lack of funding for the development of areas where the Roma community lives is addressed by a fund that has only recoverable resources that are not suitable for addressing the Roma problem, and it is therefore clear that these incentives are to be set in the national budget. A statutoryly defined ratio of funding for general development tasks at regional level of 60% of state resources and 40% of municipal resources is provided at annual level. The financing of projects under regional development arrangements shall be coordinated with current practice when funds can be provided by several ministers, ministries, taking into account eligibility in all development policies. The criterion for the designation of municipalities belonging to the problems mentioned above is supplemented by the inclusion of municipalities with a statutory development coefficient of less than 0,90 if they are bordering border municipalities or municipalities directly bordering border municipalities. The following are added: promotion and development of entrepreneurship and innovation culture, implementation of regional programmes and internationalisation of the economy, development of employment competences and spatial planning at regional level. For these reasons, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u235	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferlug and the mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In view of the solutions we have today in this law, some things may need to be further pointed out in this first reading. I understand the decision to try to abolish the provision that none of the municipalities of the founders of the regional development agency should have more than one third of its share in this company. In fact, the purpose of this provision was not to allow a regional development agency to have the dominant influence of only one municipality. As a rule, it is here, of course, for the municipalities, where they also have the headquarters of the regional development agency, and then all the other municipalities are in a subordinate position. Of course, it is obvious that the regional councils have failed to bring these procedures to this stage in order to subordinate the underlying shares within regional development agencies, if I may say so, or to harmonise the legal provision and try to remedy it. So, yeah, that's one of the solutions, but I think we need to be or you need to pay special attention then to further developments. Indeed, all municipalities involved in the functioning of the regional development agency also provide part of the costs for the operation of this regional development agency. How the income or profits are then shared, if you want, by these regional development agencies, of course, is decided by only one municipality, which, of course, has the largest share and others are in a subordinate position. Of course, it is necessary to pay particular attention here to the cost of the service they charge in their work, so that there will not be too much burden on the municipalities, which will or will not have their shares in regional agencies at all, or significantly less in order to have a decisive impact. This is one of the issues that will certainly arise in the future, and I am reminding him right now because the solution so far has been intended to maximise the impact of individual municipalities in the regional development agency. As far as the other solutions are concerned, I think we should really draw attention to what I think will reduce the possibility of a faster solution to unemployment in problem areas – therefore, those are areas with a high level of unemployment. I think it's still 18% as a criterion when it's found that action needs to be taken. However, in Articles 16, 17 and 18, you have provisions that state that the employment incentive provided for in this Article is not an authorisation for export-related activities and in cases where the use of domestic goods would be preferable to the use of imported goods. So, we are talking about wood and raw materials that we have at our disposal in Slovenia, but if we give this wood from Slovenia priority over wood from import, then the incentive for employment provided for in this Article is not allowed. The same applies to incentives for tax relief for employment in these areas and the same applies to investment relief. This seems to me to be an extremely severe restriction on problem areas, because if you do not have an export-oriented company, then this is not usually a company that employs a larger number of people or, if it does not have these facilities, then it is preferable to invest by highway or in places where infrastructure is, to say a higher level and access to markets is, of course, simpler. How do I replace this manna? This is one of the issues that I think will need to be cleared in the context of the adoption of this law. I suppose this is linked, of course, to European regulations and so on, but – but again – whether we are not able to cope with this situation for border areas problems as exceptions because simple data show, even if you monitor some of the data in these problem areas, the unemployment rate has generally not been reduced, but it has increased. That is why there is also a specific issue related to Pocolupje. This is a problem area covering the area of Kočevska and White Krajina – seven municipalities are involved in this problem area. The Pocolpium programme was adopted from 2011 to 2016, which is the end of this year of this programme, which contains all of these measures, which I mentioned earlier: tax incentives for employment, tax incentives for investment, write-off of contributions and, of course, further concrete investments in road infrastructure, provision of homes for older people and so on. Specifically, what status will Pokolpje have after 2016, given that, if I speak for Kočevsko, the unemployment rate among the highest or highest in Slovenia is 24% when this programme was adopted, the unemployment rate was 18% or more in 2011 there. So, what status will it have after the August 2016 period, or will this programme be extended for how many years, what measures will be in force in this area, and how will these measures be implemented? Indeed, there is still a provision in Article 24 in force in border areas of concern that speaks of borderline problems in areas as priority areas of all development policies. Therefore, budgetary users shall take account of the area’s cross-border problems in the preparation of sectoral programmes in the tendering criteria for tendering throughout the whole country, part of the funding shall be allocated to investment from border areas of concern or shall establish additional selection points for projects from those areas. I think that the question of who is overseeing the implementation of Article 24 of the Law on the promotion of coherent regional development will have to be clarified. I am afraid that individual ministries preparing tenders do not include these provisions in their tenders. Therefore, this call should contain either additional points for problem areas or a sector should identify a separate source for the problem area. I therefore think that monitoring the implementation of this provision is not effective enough and that we should also consider at this stage when we discuss how to improve it. I may be wrong, but I think I'm pretty close to finding that it's not being monitored effectively enough. The next point I would like to draw attention to is the mid-term evaluation of the Competitiveness Promotion Programme and the development support measure in the Pocolp in the period 2011-2016. An important interim evaluation act has been made, which, of course, is also the basis for cleaning up this control technology in particular and for measures, if not reflected effectively enough, to be improved; in short, to alert individual sectors to the fact that they do not follow the legal provision I read earlier in Article 24. In particular, 3 A development axis, road infrastructure, was implemented in 2011, otherwise it is a programme, I think, valued until 2014, up to 31 %. If I look at the comparison with the other 31,6 %, the implementation of the 2011–2013 financial plan in all other sections within the Pocolp is significantly higher – 64 %, 63 %, 74; 62 is the average overall. So far below average is the realisation of this road, which belongs to the 3A development axis. This is the regional road Ljubljana–Kočevje. So only one investment was actually made here. That's the third outpost of Pijava Gorica. All procedures at the curbs were stopped; both Škofljica, both Velika Lašče, Ribnica, Kočevje. Even if there is a problem in Škofljica, these funds should be redirected to Velika Lašče, Ribnica, Kočevje. But nothing actually happened at this point. This is where I come up with this conclusion somehow, obviously there is no one within the government who would point out that this ministry warns that it does not implement the provisions which are binding in the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development. I would like to ask some answers to this subject and, of course, also the possibilities for improving this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u237	Mr. Marko Ferluga has the word to prepare for the mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team! I believe the adoption of this law is necessary. Why? Because the need to maintain the situation of certain RRAs is very necessary, otherwise they would be deleted from the register. This would certainly be a major blow to some leakage in the production of infrastructure and other programmes in the area of regional development. It is important to be aware that their function and objectives will also be carried out by the RRA in the future, which will be very difficult to implement with a reduced amount of resources. For regional development, however, it is undoubtedly crucial that a country with a rapid deviation from administrative burdens is said to be in cahoots, ownership requirements allowing the RRA itself to focus on their core function. And this is a concern for coherent regional development. There are, of course, still a number of issues that remain open in this matter; from the unfair competition of the institutions for promoting regional development in relation to the private sector – these services and the offered matters somehow overlap and compete with lower prices and all the rest – to the effectiveness of the promotion programmes with a long-term impact on the development of the region and, of course, on employment. It is good what has been found so far, even that they have learned to draw on funds for regional development, but here is this Catch 22, I would say, it is true, that we need to show that we can then integrate pumping into projects that offer long-term sustainable models, which is essential in this regard. Because here, in previous laws and additions, it was forgotten that long-term sustainability was also extremely necessary and somehow unforeseeable, and that was why it was a stalemate. Another segment, which must not be forgotten, is very important in this – while reminding me that the funds are less – is said to be a larger share of its own sources of funding, which undoubtedly needs to be underlined once again. Furthermore, concern must be pursued for an inclusive and broad range of interests, which are very high in the region itself and also in this aspect of regional life, and the involvement of individual bodies of regional development in this. Now, in the pursuit of the diverse interests of individual groups, clearly, RRA is one of the key elements and there is probably a lot of excitement in this. The current regional development infrastructure offers the possibility of taking a bottom-up approach, which is also one of the more important things that we are not just doing projects, but that these projects are actually living. If I can conclude, it is said that I will not forget to say it yet, but the quality of the projects remains crucial. We can't forget that. Before allocating funds just like that, I'm going to say, it's something, but now that this allocation of funds is solely on the fact that both financial plans and everyone is dedicated to this kind of long-term development and sustainability, it's very important. And, of course, the involvement of the environment and regional development and the ability of companies to create quality business stories, not only to remain "incomplete construction projects", but to make full use of them. This is very important, and we need to work on it. So it is absolutely this law to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u239	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Mrs Andreja Potočnik and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u240	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Today, on a proposal from the Government, I would say, at least for me, one of the very important laws – the Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development – is the first to be considered. They are involved, by region, in particular in drawing on European funds. So I'm a little sad that we don't have a minister here. Today, we all know that the Ministry of the Economy has no more important functions than it once had; you no longer have government of state property, energy has been taken from you, all together, and perhaps today is one of the most important areas – and there is no Minister for the Economy. I regret that and I miss him, but at the same time, I would expect him to be here. On the other hand, I also think that the relationship between the coalition and this issue is important. Just one example; last year, the regional development agency in Kranj invited a round table with an invitation to see where the problems are, how to improve the problem. Members from Gorenjska were invited and we were only opposition Members present! Not a single member of the coalition, some of them from Gorenjski, or any other member of the coalition, attended this meeting. That is why I am concerned here about the attitude towards such an important issue by the ruling coalition or government of Mir Cerar. But I'm concerned that these things that you're preparing look like this on paper and so, in practice, I would say, but things are significantly worse and significantly different. And the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the key in here is to start preparing some normal calls and not complicate them with these tendering conditions and with commas and with all the others. But then you're not dealing with any content and you're causing these agencies a lot of trouble. Then, when co-financing and payments are made, it is usually stuck. And, Madam Secretary of State, if you can tell me how much you owe on individual projects to individual regional agencies at a given time, because a while ago, I know this number was alarming. If you can serve with data, whether you are now paying in hand or not. That seems important to me. And the other thing that I miss in here is that with these projects that allow it, we don't go outside any more. I have told the committees several times that I miss mainly cooperation with one region: the Alps-Adria region. The region of Alpe-Adria combines part of Austria, with Koroška, and then Friuli-Venezia Giulia. There is a lot of interest in both the Austrian and Italian sides and a lot of projects, and everyone you talk to in both Austria and Italy says, "Look, the Slovenian side has no interest here." In Europe, there has also been a great deal of emphasis on regions and you, as representatives of the Ministry of Economy, should also do something in this area. Even in these projects, which you represent both to the general public and to Parliament, I miss more emphasis in particular on this region. But we're also missing those partners that you can get, and you're working very well together. Those who have cooperated across these border areas have a very positive experience with this. Once again; the paper brings everything forward, but let us do it in reality, so that these data are simplified and that in these matters it does not have the main word, in particular this bureaucratic apparatus, and that perhaps the Ministry of Economy will be here as a consultant to tell how a certain part of the documentation is prepared. We know here that certain things are difficult, not that then people who check these things, just wait and warn, the documentation is flawed, it needs to be fixed, it is necessary, and here we all know – time is lost, money is lost.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u241	Ms Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare for Mr Jože Tanko and Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u242	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As has been mentioned several times, this bill has two main objectives: to improve systemic solutions and to streamline administrative procedures. With regard to this consideration of the process itself, it is appropriate to assign additional tasks, I would like to say in particular the experience of the OECD, which shows that development agencies are only successful if they are part of comprehensive system-wide promotion, that more activities should be involved in a given area, namely that all these activities of the development agencies are complemented by the education system, housing policy, transport policy, space regulation and other public services. This is the experience of the OECD and this amendment to the law follows these experiences. Let me point out that the law is also intersectorally regulated, so that this fear is completely superfluous. In these previous discussions, much has been said about the very use of resources, the very problematic areas themselves. But we need to ask ourselves in particular what development agencies are designed to do, when they are successful. In fact, if we have a few funds and they make good use of them, but the project itself or the money itself is not usefully used, then the agency is not successful. This is why it is crucial: a good knowledge of the problems and potentials of the area from which the development agency comes; the ability to work with the existing economic, cultural, social and political structures of the area; the operational programme of the work of the development agency itself, which will benefit from new jobs; the creation and exploitation of opportunities; and the provision of solutions. Thus, quality projects and knowledge of the problem of the area are key. With regard to the content of the tenders itself, as my predecessor has stated as a problem, I believe that the MGRT will respond in its debate. I am also pleased that today this general debate has opened up the problem of colleagues from the Italian and Hungarian national communities. I believe that before the final adoption of the law we will certainly sit down and discuss this issue, I do not know the problem in depth, but I believe that we will clear it up on the Commission itself and then on the Committee on the Economy. But I'd like to add one more thing. There is something about today's law that we have before us, but we also have additional temporary measures, which is also said by the law in troubled areas where unemployment is high. We already have measures and are already in place there. These are mainly in Pokolpe, Maribor with its surroundings and the problem area of Hrastnik, Radeče and Trbovlje. That is how we have a larger body besides this law, where we are working hard, not least is the law called coherent regional development and that is the point. The EU is also quite committed to this problem. It is said that, last but not least, what is the point of bringing the European Union together is that all citizens of the European Union can live on the same quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u243	The text is prepared by Dr László Göncz, Mrs Suzanne Lep Šimenko and later by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings again to all present. I have not spoken about general matters on purpose before in the Group's position, so just one sentence allows me to say that I am also satisfied with the content solution concerning the development support to the Pomur region, in the sense that the extension of the development law on the Pomur region originally indicated that the exclusion of that region would also occur in terms of development resources, i.e. European money, and therefore there was already some panic in the region, but thank God that this matter has been resolved as well as this law now suggests. Otherwise, double funding, clear, excluded, which is prudent and normal, while making it possible for European funds to draw on themselves when meeting the criteria, which is particularly important in terms of unemployment and other handicaps in the pomur region. As for this second content, or our primary content, when we talk to Mr Battelli about the problem of the economic basis of indigenous national communities, let me first thank the President of the committee responsible, who has already indicated in advance at least the willingness to discuss this content. I hope that we will receive the same from the executive branch of power. This is particularly important after what we have both stressed; therefore, in 20 years it has not been practical to establish a system that could effectively provide an economic basis for national communities. So that's how the solutions were and how they were. I don't want to delay, I don't want to repeat, I don't want to cite concrete cases now, but the fact that there were no and there were always some excuses, or that the legal basis does not allow, or is not in agreement with some regional requirements in general terms, but I think that this is such a specific content that the Constitution, as has already been read here, clearly defines the parameters and would specifically point out that the economic activities of the national communities are being discussed. We support the whole area as we live, including any support for this area, but, as has already been pointed out, the national communities can contribute most to this area by developing their own economic base and, of course, to their own existence, but also the starting point of the constitutional provision, because, as I have already pointed out in the position of the Group of Members, we cannot talk about some similar activities here, such as in the area of culture, information and so on. This is a specific issue, and therefore a specific system is required, which unfortunately, as I point out for the third time, we have not found. I also ask that the relevant factors of the executive branch of power, in addition to the legislative one, now that this law is open, approach this issue and at least take that step forward, which will then be able to ensure, at a later stage, the search for appropriate content. Because I haven't been able to find the right content yet, because unfortunately, as I said before, we haven't been able to figure out the right system. I hope that it will be better in this respect and I also expect in the debate of the Secretary of State to respond to this implementation, because we are really interested in what the Government's approach to this desire or our desire to change the system will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u245	Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello again! As has already been pointed out in the position itself, I consider coherent regional development to be extremely important. In fact, maybe a little personal, sometimes it really hurts to see what differences we have in Slovenia. And that's not something that's happened in the last year. That's something that hasn't actually diminished over the last decade. But unfortunately, because of or increased unemployment, because of different historical situations, these differences in individual areas continue to increase. Already those who drive to Ljubljana on a daily basis see the concentration against the centre in most cases just because we have too few jobs at the edge, especially on the edge of Slovenia. A lot of times Austria saves itself, because a lot of our inhabitants, our citizens drive to work elsewhere, but that's not the solution. We want a coherent regional development, which I believe also means that Slovenian citizens will stay in Slovenia and have a real job with us. These data on the differences between the regions themselves, between the statistical regions are indeed very worrying and I really urge you, Ministry representatives, to set things up in a way that actually those areas that are below the Slovenian average of development and, last but not least, below 75% of the EU's average of development will receive little more support. Area problems have been identified and border areas have been exposed. I come from one of those areas that we've talked about here many times before, that's the Halo area. At that time, it has been particularly exposed several times, including supported by all coalition parties or all parliamentary parties, which is one of the areas in need of special treatment or some additional incentive, but this does not fall within areas where there would be so much unemployment. Why? Simply — young people have moved from these parts. I'm curious about how you're going to help these areas through this marriage of yours, most of the time it's about the vast areas. I strongly support this change, however, that you have added that there is a possibility that the border areas will also be joined by a municipality that does not actually reach 0.9% of development. Why? Because in many cases it is necessary to view an area as a whole according to its geographical or other characteristics, which, of course, is certainly the case in this case. Of course, I am concerned about the bad practices that have taken place in the past. I have also made this point on purpose in my very position. And any doubt written in the law itself, of course, raises immediate doubts about what might be hidden back here. In fact, we are also asking about the relevance of this number of regional agencies. I was kind of pleased when you added here in Article 9 a number of the activities you want to transfer to the regions. But somehow I wonder how you're going to do this. In particular, this point is spatial planning at regional level. I kind of feel like we're jumping again. If we had in Slovenia, I do not know whether the regions or regions were otherwise organised, of course this would be some logical consequence and only the right one. Now I can't imagine how many of these regional agencies you intend to do this. On the one hand, we have 12 regional development agencies, which I think are all around these statistical regions. On the inside, however, we have various agencies that have, in one way or another, chosen to play a role and are considered to be a representative in a given area. All these regional agencies are quite successful. I am interested here in whether you have made any analysis of how successful individual regional agencies are, how effective they are, and if you intend to make any change in the number of these agencies. How will you define their tasks, their powers to actually be able to carry out all these tasks, which are very important? But I wonder how you're going to do it. Promoting the development of entrepreneurship – I agree, promoting the region and promoting investment in the region. In what way? Will we still, as a country, have, I don't know, a central organization working on this, or will you transfer these tasks exclusively to the level of the region? These things are where they have a state organization on a level, say, landscape, clear. We don't even have a budget in this direction. So I wonder how you plan on doing all this. However, I, such as this, other similar regional activities, schemes and projects after a decision of the Ministry of Content and with the consent of the Ministry, which is now the substantive competent ministry? [[…]] Is this the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology or is the Ministry without a cohesion department? What's that decent department? And the same in Article 9. The second paragraph shall be amended to read as follows: An invitation to tender may be made for the performance of the tasks referred to in the preceding paragraph, on the basis of which the competent minister shall confer public authority on the chosen legal person. So, "can" or "can" or "can" or "can't" or "who's going to decide if "can" now? In some cases, he won't be in others. We just want things to be clearly written, not that there is some basis in the law, but that someone will then make the decision as he chooses to. Unfortunately, in similar cases we do not have good practices and unfortunately, such bad practices are sometimes shed light on an agency that works well. As far as the development agencies themselves are concerned, I am wondering to what extent, or do you, I don't know, define some wage policy that applies to all agencies, whether it's free to decide, I don't know, the world of this agency, the congregation. The way you set yourself up, maybe a little more operational, these things. And like I said, the success and effectiveness of these agencies. Sometimes, I don't know if you're wondering if a single agency or people working there are even able to pull one of those wide areas together. Here are the representatives of the municipalities, of course each mayor wants the best for his own congregation, has his own proposals and is that cooperation, which, of course, is also crucial in the new financial perspective, will not work without it, but poses a problem. And in the end, it happens that there's a pool, and people who work at a development agency just don't know with all these stakeholders how to find a common language. And who is the one who will decide some things in the end? Where are the borders? Where are the borders between the agency itself and then where are the last boundaries for decisions on the Ministry's side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u247	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government as a proponent. Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you, President. I will try to answer a few questions, and some of the initiatives that you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, have put to the debate. First, as regards the privileges of congregations or congregations from which the president of the world of the region is to come. It should be noted here that the Council of the Regions as such does not have legal personality in order only to publish a public call for the selection of a regional development agency for a certain programming period. That is why we have actually proposed that the congregation from which the President of the Council of the Region comes, but we are in this same article, and this is the 20th article found in the bill, we have clearly stated that if it is not the congregation from which the President comes, it can be another. Thus we do not limit here and this is actually this decision in the world of the region. With regard to Pomur, let me reiterate that with the solutions proposed, let us in fact eliminate the possibility or risk of double funding. I think it's necessary, absolutely. In doing so, I would like to point out that, with the extension of the post-moral development law in the National Assembly, the Government has undertaken to submit amendments to the system law, which will eliminate the possibility of duplication of regional incentives. Indeed, the duplication did not take place, even because MGRT is the state authority that runs both processes under both laws. However, this could theoretically be, and therefore, of course, we have also tried to prevent this by means of these changes; therefore, there would be no double funding. Next, with regard to the additional classification of municipalities as borderline problems of the area and concerns that there would be insufficient funds or that this would reduce funds for the current areas or municipalities. Here, let me say that we have added to the border problems of the areas or that it is in the proposal that municipalities that have a development coefficient under the Community Financing Act are additionally classified – I have already said this once. As an example, as two examples of such congregations, the congregation of Makola in Haloza, the Haloza mentioned above, you have met this problem several times. The second example is Gornji Grad in the Savini region. They are both very poorly developed by the indicators, but since they are geographically not extremely bordered by the congregation, they have so far not been classified as borderline problems in the area. Now, after this proposal, this will be possible and we will be able to help with certain similar problems through this mechanism. With regard to grants to indigenous communities and also to the debate we have with the communities. Here, I would like to make it clear that we anticipate that there is a lack of clarity as to the type of incentives provided by the Slovenian Regional Development Fund, as well as the state budget. In doing so, let me mention that we assume that the Fund will also be able to call for irreversible incentives to the indigenous national community from the proceeds of asset management and free money. Notwithstanding the changes in the text of the articles, neither the indigenous national communities nor the Roma communities are subject to any derogations in terms of the reduction of funds or rights in relation to the current situation. It is a matter of providing the Slovenian Regional Development Fund from Ribnica, the so-called Fisheries Fund, with the possibility of offering grants to the indigenous national community. At the same time, let me make it very clear once again that we will continue the search-oriented dialogue with the national communities, as you say, and you have mentioned, the long-term solutions, check everything, including the constitutionality of certain solutions, and I believe that we may be able to reach appropriate satisfactory solutions for all parties in this context. Next, I would like to mention the neoliberality of the measures to promote entrepreneurship, the culture of innovation, the internationalisation that we anticipate, I think, in Article 9 by region. I think that I find it difficult to agree with this, to try in this way, of course, with limited means, as far as they are available, to people, entrepreneurs, those who engage in entrepreneurship, to help them make the best of their business plans, to make their business, as far as possible, internationalised, to try with some of the innovation potentials that exist in the regions, to exploit it and, of course, to be more successful. Not only do we want to help these communities financially, but we want to help them with some measures in the direction of developing the potential they undoubtedly have in these areas as well. As far as Pokolpja is concerned, tomorrow the government will consider a proposal to extend the programme of the problem area also for Pokolpje by 2020. Here we have already published a proposal for various instruments, which foresee a number of funds in the period 2017-2020, so I think that this is good news for the population or for the area of Pokolpja. As regards the absence of the Minister and the commitment of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. First of all, the Minister is at the meeting of the World Tourism Organization and unfortunately he was not able to be here today, and he will certainly be present at the adoption of this law and will further explain why these changes are necessary. However, I assure you that, not only in the context of these amendments to this Act, but also in the area of regional development, regions such as those at the Ministry are doing virtually very intensely. Of course, also in the context of finding solutions, how to change, of course, cohesion rules or funds, which are much less available for regions, we are looking here – truly, believe me – every day for solutions both with regions, both with individual municipalities and I believe that we will get some real solutions here as well. With regard to financing and funding to development agencies. I guarantee that, in particular, for those activities relating to developmental, general development tasks, financing takes place smoothly. So it's in the hands that are set for it. What it's like to finance cross-border projects, we don't know, or at least I don't know, because it's not directly within our competence, but we can, of course, get you this information and we'll give it to you. As far as the effectiveness of the tenders is concerned, we are working intensively. We have about 14 calls at this time, and a few will be published by the end of this month — the majority in June. Just before today, we are still coordinating with various resources, with various services, how to simplify, to say so, and at the same time to take into account all the rules arising from the operational programme and the provisions of the European Community; but, above all, we want to make calls for companies as simple as possible, so that – of course, this is a common objective – there is as much funding available. As far as the effectiveness of regional agencies is concerned, I agree, there will also be a need for a thorough analysis of the effectiveness of individual development agencies, and there is no doubt about that. We are preparing, in particular, the tasks that are also enshrined in this already mentioned Article 9, namely the promotion of entrepreneurship, the assistance to entrepreneurs in setting up businesses, the opening up of businesses, entry into foreign markets, the concept of so-called VEM points, the concept – we call it "one stop shop". At the national level, the Spirit will be the holder of this spirit, and then there will be 12 regional VEM points, which will also have this function to help and carry out these specific activities, which can also be found in this proposal for amending the law. That's how this concept is supposed to come to life, and now it's preparing an elaborate, and it's supposed to live somewhere in the first quarter, the end of the first quarter of next year. Of course, it will be very clear what competences, skills, skills must have people who will then act on these VEMs as their objectives, and of course will be accompanied by the achievement of these objectives; in short, it seems to me that it must be. So much for now. If there is another question, of course, we will be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u249	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah. Before applying, we would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm opening the application. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Every five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. I do not think I have found any response to the restrictions on employment incentives and on tax reliefs and investment in cases where domestic goods have been used or, of course, this activity is linked to exports. This new programme of Pokolpja – I congratulate you on your decision to be in government. Or how will you make up for this significant drop in my opinion when the export-oriented company simply does not have the appropriate incentives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u251	Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Government or the Ministry of the Economy for their willingness to take this knot's solution seriously because the problem is already becoming a serious problem. In short, we don't need credit from the funds. That's it. Fund credits do not solve what is the obligation of this country or what is the exercise of rights. This right is found in the Constitution because of objective facts from the past, above all, and it would not be necessary for the national communities to be completely unequipped with this dimension, because the system has prevented it; and not only prevented it, but excluded it from the possibility that something like this would happen, which has also led to other consequences that I will not now mention. Think of it as a group of craftsmen, farmers, winemakers, innkeepers, merchants, credit institutions, and so on — it is normal; five kilometres from my house is normal for the national community; it is normal five kilometres from the border with Austria. We're not equal, simple. And not because we wouldn't be able to do it, but because it's impossible to do it again. Therefore, one single aid is needed, and then we can start to contribute to the development of the place we live in. This is a political issue, not just an economic issue. It is equality, which comes from international agreements and which has been destroyed by their signature – I think of the London Memorandum – because the possibility of implementation has been eliminated, which is what the Special Statute states. I welcome this willingness to discuss these matters seriously, and I believe that if we take this seriously, we will also resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u253	Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Just as far as income is concerned. I would say, as you have already found in your first implementation, that this is actually a follow-up to the European Union regulations and that we will be trying to find some solutions, including for tax or tax relief in the last years of 2013, 2014, 2015. Those weren't large amounts. But no matter what I say, I agree here with you that we need to find some innovative solution to replace this failure. As far as the national communities are concerned, once again; therefore, the invitation to further dialogue and the search for solutions are valid, and I also believe that we can come up with an appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u255	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday 19 in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 5. 2016 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A COLLECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF AUTHORITY AND COMMUNITY RIGHTS The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this proposal, 18 Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Jozet Tank, first-signed, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u256	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me a little more about the proposal for a law on collective management of copyright and related rights on the way to some clarifications. A proposal for a law before you that regulates the area of collective governance covered today by the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Excluding the scope and placement in the new law of the European Union is followed by a Directive on collective management of copyright and related rights, which, at European level, aims to harmonise the participation of members in the adoption of key decisions of collective organisations, to regulate the management of collective organisations, to inform rightholders and foreign collective organisations, to establish transparency in the operations of collective organisations and other areas. A broad public debate was held on the bill. The first draft was forwarded to the public debate on 14 August 2015, the second draft in mid-December. During this time, four day-long substantive coordination meetings with authors, rightholders, collective organisations and users, as well as another interested public, were organised to exchange views on collective governance in Slovenia. The bill before you follows three goals. First of all, greater efficiency of the members of collective organisations in taking key decisions of collective organisations. Under two, greater transparency in the functioning of collective organisations and, last but not least, more effective control over the functioning of collective organisations and users of works. Greater involvement of the members of the collective organisation will be ensured through a clear management structure of the collective organisation composed of the Assembly, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. Membership in a collective organisation will be based on objective, transparent and non-discriminatory rules. Members will be granted the right to participate in the Assembly and to take decisions on the core documents and issues of collective organisation, collection and distribution of copyright fees and fees and payments to dedicated funds. A minority of members will be allowed to convene the Assembly and appoint a special auditor to review the management of individual collective organisation business. The transparency of the activities of collective organisations shall be followed by provisions on the right of the right of the holder of the right to access documents and data of the collective organisation, including published annual reports and declarations of conflicts of interest and receipts of members of the supervisory committee and management. Collective organisations will be committed to thoroughly informing right-holders as well as foreign collective organisations, establishing effective mechanisms to resolve possible disputes. Decisions on the compulsory separate management of collected copyright fees, the use of collected copyright fees, deadlines for the allocation and payment of copyright fees and operating costs will also contribute to transparency of business. The draft law lays down measures that may be taken in the context of administrative supervision and fines in criminal proceedings. Proper supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the law is essential for the effective exercise of copyright and related rights in Slovenia. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, as well as the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and the Agency for Public Records and Services, will play a central role in monitoring. The bill also contains other important provisions on the external operator, the use of works for non-commercial use, tariffs and common agreement, the copyright board, the possibility of issuing a common account and several territorial licences for the online use of musical works. We expect in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the implementation of the solutions presented will have positive effects on public perception of collective organisations and their role in Slovenia as well as the wider international space. The perception of people, in particular users, about the importance of respect for copyright and related rights could also change with greater respect for collective organisations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u257	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u258	Dear Mr President, the ministerial team, dear colleagues and colleagues! We are looking at the arrangements for collective management of copyright and related rights that the applicant has removed from the Copyright and Related Rights Act and submitted to the National Assembly under a special law. This opens up the urgent process of recasting copyright and increases the transparency and regulation of the field of collective organisations, as has been successfully regulated by some countries with long experience in the field of copyright management. Collective governance generally needs updates or a framework for the operation of the collective organisation for the benefit of the authors and for the benefit of creativity. As early as 2005, the European Commission found that there was a need to improve the functioning of collective organisations, in the Commission's recommendations of 18 May 2005, in order for collective organisations to seek to represent the interests of rightholders, relations between rightholders and collective organisations should treat equally the different categories of rightholders and strive for fair and balanced representation of holders in the management of collective organisations. The rightholders should be informed by the collective organisation of the repertoire, of any reciprocal representation agreement, of the territory of the application of their powers and of the applicable tariffs. Similarly, collective organisations should fairly distribute all the collected compensations and specify the deductions they have made for purposes other than those for the management of the system. So in 2005 the Commission did. Dr. Miha Trumpus, an expert in copyright, says: "The importance of collective organisations comes directly from the importance of copyright as an instigator of creativity, innovation and cultural diversity. Since collective organisations take care of the implementation of this task in a large area of protected content, it is crucial for this task of copyright. This is especially true for small countries such as the Republic of Slovenia, where the effective functioning of collective organisations with all their functions is the protection of national and cultural identity." End of quote. Collective organisations are of great importance to rightholders; their collective, which gives them adequate bargaining power, provides them with regular marketing and recovery of fees and provides social and other support with solidarity. Collective organisations are the only way that authors can successfully stand up to powerful users and also against powerful right holders, most of them publishing giants. They are equally important for users who should explore with great problems and transaction costs who are the authors and right holders of work, the exercise of phonograms and other related rights they would like to use. Also in the light of this awareness, the legislator, taking into account the warnings and recommendations of the European Union, has formulated principles: the openness of the collective organisation to all rightholders, the efficiency of the management of collective organisations, the transparency of the business of collective organisations, the fair tariff for the use of copyright works, the efficiency of collecting and sharing of copyright holders and greater legal certainty. The principles are part of a proposal for a law that transposes Directive 2014/26/EU on collective management of copyright and related rights in Slovenia and the issuance of several territorial licences for rights of music works for online use in the internal market. The bill was the subject of a broad public debate, the first draft of the law was 14. 8. 2015 submitted to the public debate, which lasted until the end of September 2015. The second draft was held in public debate and intersectoral coordination from 14 December 2015. During this time, four day-long substantive coordination meetings with authors of rights holders, collective organisations and users and another public were organised to exchange views on collective governance in Slovenia. The law therefore pursues three key objectives: greater involvement of members of the collective organisation in taking key decisions of collective organisations, greater transparency in the functioning of collective organisations and more effective supervision of the functioning of collective organisations and users of works of copyright. Greater involvement will be ensured through clearly defined tasks of the bodies of the collective organisation – the Assembly, the Supervisory Committee, the management of which are the basic building blocks of the collective organisation, with which the effective management of copyright and related rights must be ensured. Membership in a collective organisation must be based on objective rules in order to ensure that all members have the right to participate in the assembly and thus have an impact on the functioning of the collective organisation. The responsibility of the Assembly shall be, inter alia, to adopt an annual report, to approve the contract with the external contractor, its amendments or cancellations. The members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board will be jointly responsible for the damage resulting from the breach of their tasks. With regard to the division of copyright fees, the law strongly sets out the collective organisation for careful collection, management and division, while also laying down very clear rules on the creation of separate dedicated funds, which are of paramount importance for the promotion of cultural and artistic creation and the dissemination of new works of copyright. This part of the law especially follows the wishes or demands of the authors that we heard when we adopted the new Media Law. The new law will also specify the composition, procedures and decision-making of the copyright board. The Council is a relatively new institute in Slovenian copyright, which needs to be given the opportunity to justify its operation. The changes in the world are aimed at optimizing the decision-making process. The purpose of the proposed amendments is to enable the world to operate in full order, to make timely decisions that are justified and acceptable to all parties, thereby strengthening its trust and authority in the area of tariffs for the use of works of copyright. The transparency and transparency of the activities of collective organisations follow the provisions on the right of the right-holder to have access to documents and data of the collective organisation, including in the published annual reports of the collective organisation and the statement of conflicts of interest and disclosure of the remuneration of the members of the supervisory committee and management. Collective organisations will be committed to thoroughly informing right-holders and to establishing effective dispute resolution mechanisms. The provisions on the mandatory separate management of the collected copyright fees, the use of the collected copyright fees, the time limits for the allocation and payment of the collected copyright fees and the cost of the business will also contribute to the transparency of the business. The draft law systematically lays down the procedure and measures of the supervisory authority, which is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, while clearly defining its powers and at the same time the duties of the collective organisation with regard to the exercise of control. In accordance with the objective of effective supervision, the actions of the supervisory authority followed in the following order are also clearly defined: from the Regulation for the Elimination of Certain Violations to the possible recall of members of the management to the extreme measure – withdrawal of authorisation. At the same time as administrative supervision, the Apes Intellectual Property Office and the Market Inspectorate may, in the context of the supervision of the individual provisions of the law, impose additional fines. An important chapter of this law is also the settlement of disputes where the applicant retains the particular importance of an agreement on mediation, which is one of the most important institutions in the European Union for the resolution of disputes in the field of intellectual property or copyright. Pursuant to Article 167 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Union must take into account cultural diversity and contribute to the culture of the Member States, taking into account their national and regional development while at the same time putting the common cultural heritage at the forefront of its actions. Collective governance organisations have the right and must play an important role in the future in promoting the diversity of cultural expression by providing social, cultural and educational services for the benefit of rightholders, i.e. authors and the public. Since the law is well and thoughtfully prepared because it represents an appropriate implementation of the European Directive, because we have a serious intention to regulate the current issue of collective governance, to which we have committed ourselves also in the programme of the Modern Centre Party and the Coalition Treaty, and because we want to follow the tradition of regulating the area of collective organisations with all the characteristics of our system, we in the SMC Group have decided that we will support the proposal for a collective management of copyright and related rights in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u259	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u260	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! In view of the introduction by the proposer and the advocacy task of the SMC Group, it feels like we have nothing in the field of copyright and related rights in Slovenia at all; as if there is no collective organisation and, of course, has now come forward and found a courageous government to regulate it. But in Slovenia we have a valid law, which is very bad in many ways and needs to be rectified in many ways and thus agreed by users, both authors' or collective organisations and many other stakeholders who have their comments and suggestions on how to resolve this matter. But then it happens to some refugees, who are obviously this government's invention with solutions in neighbouring countries, who instead of regulating in existing copyright and related rights a chapter that touches on the regulation of collective organisations, take this chapter out and move it into a new law. And instead of doing so in these existing 25 articles in the existing law, we get seventy-seven new articles that touch on the regulation of collective organisations, and we completely forget that the existing Law on Copyright and Related Rights needs all other changes. But no. In the SDS Group, we would understand if the Government came to the National Assembly with a twin, in order to regulate the existing law where it is to be regulated, and eventually take from this law those provisions that touch the areas of collective organisations and make a new law, even though this is totally inconsistent with what this government advocates, which is less bureaucracy, less legal drafting and so on. Allow me, given how much has been coordinated, how much effort has been made in this law, and how much salvation has been written in this law, I wonder why almost everyone is against this law. Almost everyone. Only the users did not come forward because unfortunately the change in copyright and related rights does not touch them. According to the SDS Group, this area should also be regulated, but a little later. In short, almost everyone's against it. In these days we have received, I think that more than twenty different societies, organisations and institutions have come up with different wishes and needs, and they have one point in common – not to adopt this law. Allow me to begin with, some accusations which are quite serious and which I would like the Ministry's representatives to reply below. One example of many: The signatories object to the proposal because the basic copyright law remains deliberately unordered so that positive changes in the interests of music, literature, art, film, dance, architecture and similar creativity do not occur. The MGRT bill allows us to usurp private copyright property and the violent takeover of collective organisations belonging to authors by users of works. The proposal does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal does not comply with the guidelines of the National Programme for Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal does not comply with the basic European Treaty of the Republic of Slovenia. Keyly, the proposal for a law in many ways is not in line with EU Directive 2014/26. The law is obviously the product of lobbyist interests of publishing, foreign music dealers in Slovenia and media houses, who want to take over music and copyright business in Slovenia through the new law. The law is obviously the fruit of international interests and lobbyists by musical multinationals and media groups infiltrated by the European Commission — musicians, creators, writers, artists and others — and we were not all as a professional group, which is primarily concerned with the law, properly addressed in previous legislative procedures despite our requests, initiatives and warnings. The law is not based on analysis of the existing situation and projections to improve the situation. I will further explain this objection in more detail, but the distinguished representatives of the Ministry, the Government, are serious accusations, which are confirmed in many ways by the proposal for a law. In the SDS Group we have found some solutions that can be supported at first sight. In the SDS Group, we have already prepared the law ourselves because we wanted to introduce a single stand, and this law has only taken half a step. This law touches on certain matters, which are also addressed by the existing law on the operation of collective organisations, on the supervision of collective organisations, on sanctions against collective organisations and other matters. But when we look at what happened to the directive or its lost translation, or it was obviously a bad Google translation, we find out what the key purpose of this law is: de facto, as soon as the termination or merger of collective organisations! This will, if this law is adopted in such a form, with such a translated EU directive, in fact occur. Moreover, this law prevents the establishment of new collective organisations; in short, collective organisations on the market fight for their membership. This law allows for the theft of intellectual property, and this law is totally inconsistent with the implementation of the directive, such as it has been implemented in Austria and Croatia in recent weeks. In the SDS Group, we ask: Who wrote this law, what was the price of this law, and what was the role of the competent office in writing this law? Once again; in many ways, the existing law needs to be amended, complemented, corrected, corrected, but not in such a slagbagier way, where under the cover of the new law you mistranslate the directive, and thus, as has already been said, follow the goal that only one major player will be in the protection of Slovenian authors, performers and, above all, creators. In our view, this is an introduction to the destruction of Slovenian media creative landscape. Next. We are interested in: How did collective organisations work in this bill, who was there when this law was written and who was not there, what was the role of certain public institutions and private institutions? And I'll be direct so it'll be easier to answer. For example, what was Telekom's role, what was the role of RTV Slovenia, what was the role of some of the largest media houses in Slovenia? Did all of these represent the interests of Slovenian authors, performers or have they represented some of their financial interests? Here it writes nicely: The Ministry has made a strong move for both creators and listeners of domestic and foreign music, which we strongly condemn because it has put itself on the side of these above-mentioned abuses, illegality, deliberate denial of rights and non-licension, the abolition of promotional and social music funds, the unacceptable European centralisation of copyright rights, the theft of copyright works, the extortion of authors and so on and so on. Serious accusations, however, that are being read by law, at least those who have been dealing with this area for the past three, four years, which, for example, proves those few inches of material on my desk that we are not reading the government's opinion to support the law, but we are thinking, asking the ministry how it will respond to these findings. The Directive states: Taking into account freedoms, collective management of copyright and related rights should include the possibility for the rightholder to freely choose a collective management organisation to manage his rights. Where is this marriage? And once again, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry are probably clear to you, but look who has not responded to this bill. All those who are talking to them about some beautiful media landscape Slovenia, which is welcome to everyone, will soon be clear who is behind this law. The case of the band of musicians, I quote," Allow me to introduce you to the fact that the proposal for a law appeared in the procedure in the National Assembly without being in any way in line with the commitments of the national programme for culture and creators. The proposal for the Act is also not in line with Article 19 of the preamble and Article 5 of the Directive, which we are talking about most today and is contrary to at least three articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relating to private property, the right to create and free enterprise initiative". Finally, they conclude, "we have been ignored by the working group throughout the process of preparing the proposal." And then the next, in about 30 indents, opposed all of these proposed, and then the Association of Authors, Performers and Producers of Slovenia. Again: if the law is harmonised, why so many and so many substantive comments as not to improve the position of Slovenian creator, that it was comparable to good practices, the preparation process and the content of the law do not have any necessary agreement of stakeholders, the content of the law is not in accordance with the directive and so on and so on. After 30 letters, we received in the last week from various stakeholders, with whom the Government was supposed to not know how long it had coordinated. The question is, who has not tried to make a comment, probably the rabbit is concerned in this bush? Your Honor, you had a simple task in preparing the regulation of copyright and related rights. Over the past 5 years, several attempts have been made both by users and not least by the various governments themselves, so that the issue of copyright and related rights and the functioning of collective organisations can be addressed. In the SDS Group in mid-last year we prepared a proposal for a law on copyright and related rights, where, unlike what you have done, we have touched on several segments that need to be resolved. But by regulating the area of copyright and related rights in two laws and not at the same time, you will do great damage to Slovenian media landscapes, especially to Slovenian creators, authors and performers. Moreover, associations themselves continue: "The new law does not address essential issues and problems" – and they themselves recognize that they are. "It is an obvious attempt to impose a state monopoly on copyright. The proponent of Slovenian copyright without need and without previous analyses and rights from the past current situation separates into two parts." And the next, sire, I hope that you have read the white organizational plan of Slovenian musicians – I think more than 300, 400 eminent people are signed, not those who are thought to be solely financial. I'm just going to name the first-signed, unfortunately deceased Slav Aussenik. Personally, if one gentleman signed this under the name Slavko Aussenik, it would mean a lot to create legislation in the field of copyright and related rights, but unfortunately the law does not follow this intention. Moreover, at the Ministry itself in the past you have worked hard and made a very interesting and commendable comparison. The Law on Copyright and Related Rights, the current text, the proposal of the Ministry and the Office for Improvements, proposals from collective organisations and user proposals. Then, at the end of the day, where the agreement was concluded and where the agreement was not concluded. But because you have pursued a procedure such as yourself, in fact this material is almost meaningless, because we have undertaken to regulate collective organisations and this in a very strange, non-transparent and, in particular, contrary to the directive, a suitable way. Believe me, and I will therefore conclude that if such a law is passed, you will have the representatives of the Ministry and the competent office the most problems. Above all, it is unacceptable to abolish collective organisations in this de facto way and, on the other hand, this law will in no way help to prevent many anomalies. I will end with the anomaly of RTV Slovenia, the Entertainment Program, statement, publishing, author, performer, the address where it reads: "For the purpose of production TV broadcasts as exclusive holder of copyright or related rights in the following part free of charge and on RTV Slovenia I transfer exclusively the right to an audiovisual event on audiovisual work"; videospot, signature. Sir, this is a de facto proven theft of the intellectual property of a public institution, and unfortunately this bill will not prevent such a place. Good purpose – poor implementation of the directive, which consequently means bad law. That is why we will oppose him in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, a very large delegation of the Ministry of the Economy! Today is a talk about the Law on collective management of copyright and related rights. The intention was that this area should be fully regulated earlier, but it was a later agreement to simply transpose certain directives into our legal order in the novel, and today there is a talk about a more comprehensive, extensive first-reading bill. There are, unfortunately, few problems in the area of the work of collective organisations. Some of them in their annual reports display different information about collected and distributed copyrights or fees. A comparison between them – reports – is thus not possible, as the law covering this area does not contain a more precise provision on how and what data the collective organisation must include and include in the annual report. There are further public allegations, indications of very high amounts to be shared in the form of meetings by the management of collective organisations. The salaries and benefits of their leadership in our country are not public, contrary to most European Union countries. A further problem following the claim of a number of authors is the distribution of funds itself. In the case of one organisation, the funds should not be paid at all to authors whose songs are not played often enough. In this way, authors whose songs are played less are expected to contribute their fees to the common fund, a fund from which only those whose songs are played exceed an arbitrary threshold or limit. The operation of collective organisations is not transparent or sufficiently transparent, and the distribution of funds raised between authors in Slovenia is not fair or, if you want, fair enough, so the regulation of this area is more than necessary. In January this year, we decided at a joint meeting of the Committee on the Economy and the Commission on Public Finance to propose to the Economic Ministry that the new proposal of the law should regulate transparency of operation and greater involvement of rightholders in the adoption of key decisions of collective organisations. The draft law thus governs the administration and enforcement of rights in one place, which today is the contents of Chapter 6 of this Act. It is essential to ensure a transparent transfer between authors and collective organisations. Each collective organisation will then have a meeting, a supervisory committee and management. The bill provides for a way of dividing the author's fees, which may be shared in accordance with the Assembly's rules on the division itself. It also lays down the rights of holders of rights of access to documents and data of the collective organisation. Rules for the composition, reception, audit and publication of annual reports of collective organisations shall be laid down. From now on, the annual report will have to be revised and submitted to the Apes for public publication. To conclude, because we are firmly convinced in the Desus Group that this area needs to be regulated and because in this bill we see a solution to the open issues in this area, of course we agree with its inclusion in further consideration and, of course, we support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone! When considering the bill on collective management of copyright and related rights, we must come from a need that is very clear and that we all recognize. The transparent functioning of collective copyright organisations must be regulated, as they have been in doubt for many years. Unification, establishment of clear criteria, internal and external control, all of which proved necessary, and the proposal for a law on collective management of copyright and related rights brings this. However, it must be asked how it could have been that three out of five collective organisations opposed the bill and claimed that it was inconsistent. Without coordination with operators and creators, who live in this large majority and are often in a very difficult situation, caught in various interests, such a law should not be created. Some of the reservations on their part are justified and the procedure which we will not oppose should, of course, be answered. Collective copyright organisations exist in different legal forms and are therefore subject to different rules for the operation, management and publication of reports. At the same time, they are monopolistic organisations, and they also require special attention in monitoring and transparency of operations. In doing so, the reason for the so-called disclosure of business secrets is out of the question, since they do not work in a competitive environment. The area of operation and management of collective copyright organisations is governed by the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which leaves many things untouchable. Therefore, there is no clear record of the funds collected and distributed. This is one of the reasons for friction between beneficiaries or members of the organisation, as well as for friction with users. The latter need to take account of their different situations. Despite a proposal from the public concerned, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology did not take into account the proposal to exempt NGOs. The tariffs are based on the squares of space, not, for example, on the number of visitors or even better on profit, which would probably be a fairer criterion. Of course, on the other hand, we have large players who do not adhere to the prescribed proportions of audiovisual content, because of course it goes against the authors. The findings of three collective copyright organisations of this proposal can be summed up by a verbal relationship of excessive regulation. This should be taken into account in particular when it could mean an excessive administrative and technical burden, in particular a cost burden, which is partly detectable in the proposal for a law in certain places. These are certainly issues that must be addressed in dialogue; dialogue with both creators who are often subordinated to capital, large media networks, and dialogue with users. The issue of copyright and related rights is broader than the situation of collective organisations, because it is extremely complex both because of the development of information and communication technology and because of conflict situations and different interests. Thus, on the one hand, we have the dominant position of a small number of multinationals, and on the other hand, we have the interesting integration of creators or authors who are trying to protect their position and their existence, and, on the other hand, as interested ceho associations, they have their own problems, and on the other hand, users and the public who have limited access to cultural and intellectual products. The problems therefore stem from the form of private property itself. A step in the right direction would be to socialise part of the funds and be more than a single income for individual authors. They would be directed towards the development of quality and diverse cultural or intellectual production, so that resources would carry out a joint development task, for example, in the form of dedicated funds, not least defined by the 33rd paragraph of the bill before us today. The development of copyright has been with us for two decades. In the United Left, we are committed to a comprehensive reform of this area, in particular the introduction of alternative mechanisms that allow for free cooperation, dissemination and nobility of ideas and which take account of ensuring the existence of cultural workers and the development of human creativity. The main problem with collective organisations in Slovenia is their imprudent operation, which is the characteristic of all such organisations in Europe. This was not the case with the European Commission in the survey, and this is due to the European Directive 2014/26, which is the basis for the proposal for a law on collective management of copyright and related rights. Further consideration in which key concerns need to be addressed will not be disputed in the United Left, as better supervision and greater transparency is certainly a necessary step towards regulating the situation in the field of copyright, but, of course, this must be a first step, as it is necessary to go beyond the outdated concepts of copyright and replace traditional legal restrictions in a way that will benefit the authors in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs Ljudmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u266	Your Honor! The area that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Economy wants to regulate with the proposal for a new law is extremely complex and complex. It is a sensitive relationship in which many people in the past have already wanted to cut down, and actual changes and progress to this day have not been achieved by anyone, according to our assessment. We also tried to help better regulation in New Slovenia in 2013 and unfortunately there was no support for the law. The story appears to repeat itself and to the bill on collective governance of copyright and related rights under consideration, we have all received a lot of negative opinions from the interested public. On the one hand are authors or creators, on the other hand listeners, viewers, users, or those who use these services. Between these two groups, we have special organisations called collective organisations. These organisations are responsible for collecting and distributing money from those who use these services. This is what many of us meet in the field daily, especially those who organize any event. After the events we get an account for the use of songs and other author services. The three key proposals proposed in our novel three years ago were, for the first time, to limit the cost of operating collective organisations such as SAZAS, IPF and other organisations. We have tried to limit their costs to 20% of the money they collect or to a maximum of EUR million. Less than the costs of these organisations, the more money remains for authors. And if the lower costs of these collective organisations are also smaller accounts of users and organisers of the various events. Then we also proposed the introduction of a single account of these collective organisations. If we organize a fire party today, we will most often receive an account from SAZAS, the IPF, and perhaps from any other organisation. A lot of people don't know why so many different accounts. That's why we wanted to force all these organizations to give a single bill so that the user would pay only one bill. Then we also wanted to introduce discounts for charity events, such as fireflies or charity concerts, at which they practically do not raise enough money to cover the costs, and then perhaps there is something left for charity. This is why we have proposed automatic discounts for all the 50% charity events. The government proposal for a law that we are considering today goes in two areas in the right direction, providing a legal basis for issuing a common account and, secondly, allowing common tariff agreements with representative organisations to be concluded. Therefore, Christian Democrats will not oppose the law because it is going in the right direction. However, we estimate that there are still a lot of reserves regarding the regulation of collective organisations. We believe that there are many lobbying in this area. They have done everything in their power to make no difference, for the existing situation obviously suits some. Sadly, this is the way millions are collected, and the ransom is not always good for those who should receive it. They're mostly songwriters, at least that's what they say.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u268	Dear Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues! The situation in the area of collective governance in Slovenia is poor when we are talking about copyright. The relationship between the authors of rights holders, users of protected works and countries is opaque, but in particular there is no trust between key stakeholders. Collective organisations have largely lost their legitimacy in the public eye. They were mostly reported by the media when it came to affairs. These affairs stem from unequal treatment of membership in the decision-making and allocation of funds from collected fees, disproportionate spending on the operation of collective organisations, non-economic investments, households and criminal complaints. It has also been clear that they are kidnapped collective organisations that operate only for a narrow circle of leadership and some privileged members. Now, Mr Lisco is not here, but he could be here looking for an answer, why almost all representatives of collective organisations object. [[…]] In this respect, you could also see the contributions made to the media, which were published, were a whole species, and you could also see there that whenever things were trying to be settled, all those of whom Mr Lisec is talking about jumped up and used all the means to not settle matters. Probably also because the purpose of this law is to place operating costs within the framework of reasonable, well-founded and documented spending and to comply with all good governance rules. And probably also because, among other things, the law also contains a provision that members of the Statute must determine the maximum allowed percentage of the transaction costs. For example, we have one of all, one collective organisation that uses more than 37% of the collected copyright fees for its existence. These, for example, are probably 150 of those so-called regular members, the top members. Besides them, there are 5,000 irregular members. Regular members have 20 votes, irregular members have 1 vote. Let's move on. Of these 37% and more contributions collected only for officials. This collective organization does not have any regular employees, but part of the funds of 37% — millions of them — are transferred to another company, while for one million there is no way of knowing where it went. If we keep going. When we talk about all of these, such a collective organisation, which collects between 8 million and 15 million authors' fees, spends 200 000 euros a year on meetings. If we give a comparison to Petrol, who turns 3 billion and spends 40 thousand for the meetings, then it is possible to be a little more clear why all of them jump up and then talk about all of these here, Mr Lisec, how they feel about the injustice because they have been ignored in the drafting of this law. I could still talk about the big other anomalies, how the leaders in all of these are charging meetings of 150 euros, how they pay travel costs multiple times in one day and so on and so forth. But that's enough. You can see the contributions; once again, they are available online, they have been presented to the public more than fully. If you are talking about the government's sage-challenging approach, Mr Lisec, once again, I recommend that you keep yourself thoroughly informed about all those you so emphatically represent. I believe that the proposal for a law is very good, based on three basic pillars, the first is the involvement of the members of the collective organisation, which must ensure that the governance structure of the collective organisation is also transparent in order to be responsible for its work. After ensuring the right of all members to participate in the Assembly and to take decisions in the main documents and matters of the organisation. In order to allow a minority of members to convene the Assembly and appoint a special auditor to review the management of individual transactions. To ensure that all rights holders have the right of access to documents and data in collective organisations – unfortunately, there has been no such thing so far. Next, greater transparency of collective organisations is an important achievement. As I have already mentioned, certain general rules for the composition of the annual report and their adoption by the bodies of the collective organisation will also be specified and the content of the annual report will be clearly defined. In order to accurately separate data on the collected copyright fees, allocated and paid copyright fees, allocated and still unpaid copyright fees, unallocated copyright fees, collective organisation costs, business costs of organisations and so on. In particular, it will require a presentation of the costs of work of external operators, information technology and legal services – all of this brings about a proposal for a law. That is why, of course, everyone here is not happy. And most importantly, more effective supervision will be given to the functioning of collective organisations and users of works and to action in the event of irregularities under administrative supervision and fines in criminal proceedings. This is well thought out, and it also follows the principles of proportionality of measures or the escalation of legal coercion. Finally, the provisions on a clearer procedure for the design and use of specific means of use need to be highlighted. It is hoped that special funds will also be made alive, both those who will help the creators in distress and those who will provide long-term forms of savings in the form of pension funds, and especially funds for the promotion of unused young creators and the dissemination of new works of copyright. In this regard, we all agree that quality new works are never enough, such funds could have an important impact on cultural production and this is also to be welcomed. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, with a good proposal for a law, there is a reasonable expectation that, when the law is adopted, it will also be properly implemented, thus establishing what is lacking today, the trust and reputation of both the collective organisation and the functioning of the state authorities responsible for overseeing the enforcement of the rules. In particular, expectations are high on the part of copyright users as well as copyright holders. I certainly believe that the bill deserves to be supported and that it is moving forward to a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mrs. Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u270	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! It is true that we are pleased that the Ministry has undertaken the preparation of this law and after all the arrangements, after all the readings and seeing what has come about, I can say that we have extremely well-prepared grounds for continuing to adopt or consider this law. Copyright and related rights are a constitutional category, with the highest legal act we have protected the protection of rights, which is the product of creativity, artistic work, scientific and research, inventory. And despite the high level of legal protection of this right, we have found that management of this copyright and related rights is a very unregulated area and, despite hearing that the basic law, the Law on Copyright and Related Rights in some way also adequately addresses this area of management of collective organisations, we need to make it clear and loud that it is not so and that only and only the amendments to this law, although they would be more extensive, would probably not lead to a good and transparent law. That is why we also think that this step is a step in the right direction, also because we know that the process of recasting copyright in general has also had to start, and of course it will be very difficult if there is also one part within this to talk about the management of copyright through collective organisations. I think that what has already been said to be the advantage of this law is in fact the most important reason why the Ministry has decided to reform this law or to establish a new law. Here, of course, it has to be stated that we do not start from any chaos or from nothing and that we have had and have collective organisations in Slovenia and that some of these organizations even, as well as authors, say that they cooperate well, that these foundations are good. Therefore, we do not see any reason for these collective organisations to be in some way afraid of this law. Certainly not, these requirements to reduce regulation or some administrative obstacles are irrelevant if we know what these collective organisations are actually disturbing in this law. This excessive regulation is based on all the requirements we have through law to collective organisations, and this red thread is transparency. I will not repeat what this transparency is all about, and I think it is of great importance at this point in time, so we will also very much monitor, hopefully, the implementation of this law into life. I would just say that the ministry has done a good job, not only because, in our opinion, it has prepared good grounds, but also because it has been discussed both with the collective organisations and with the authors and with all this public, which some now say has been exempted. We have acquired, we have wanted to gain, but some correspondence and what the Ministry has sent us, I must say that it was an express desire to reach out to a good marriage together. Why is it that now a collective organization or some authors behave as they do, but it may be necessary to look elsewhere for reasons. Above all, I think that what we have heard a little while ago is that no one is up to getting the legislation right, as it has to, but something really has to be changed. So there is no way to simplify the law in the part where we require a certain regulation, even if someone calls it excessive, and I think that further cooperation with stakeholders may still need to find some improvement, we have seen something that is likely to happen – and not only that it will happen, because it has to – but that it is right to change, but such a law is primarily for authors and some innovative, creative and diverse Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Get ready, Mrs. Marusha Skopac. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u272	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Now, on the one hand, this law has finally seen the light in the National Assembly. Dear Mr Pšeničnik probably remembers Janša's government's mandate, 2012 we have already discussed the necessity of this law, the drafting of this law – I am speaking from experience since I am in Parliament and probably before. But today we are in 2016, the Ministry of Economy, and I think it has already promised this law for 2014. At least for me, this law is one of the most important, because right here is the key problem of Slovenia, which is being touched by this law, and nobody has talked about it today. Ownership is the key of the entire rule of law, property is what must be and would say, because you too, Mr Pšeničnik, probably know why and how this law came about abroad. It was created, I think, somewhere out there in France, when two composers were sitting in a coffee shop listening to someone on the piano playing their songs, they ordered coffee and they had to pay quite a price for that coffee because someone was playing the piano there; but the one on the piano was playing songs that they both wrote. This is where it came from, and they said, look, this isn't going, my copyright work, my rights, my knowledge, my property, and now someone else is doing it. That is how this law came about. That is why I would expect this law to bring about one thing in particular; that the copyright owners will be most protected here. Owners of copyright and intellectual property and that is today, I would say, a very broad concept. At least in my view of this law, which is now, in this first reading – I will now say thank God that there is a first reading in here, that certain things are likely to change yet. I have a feeling that this law is not best written for those who own copyrights, but somehow for those who use them. But here I mean not smaller users, but larger users like cable operators such as national television, POP TV, various radio stations and so on. It is probably in their interest to make a profit and to pay as little as possible for it. Now, colleague Matić was talking about the promo fund. Indeed it is in there, but respectable Mr Matić, look at the conditions that are written inside for the functioning of this fund. Read it and then tell yourself whether, under these conditions, it will be possible, in practice, to make it work. I have a personal opinion that I don't, but I'm interested in your opinion. I agree, however, that everyone has the right to his opinion, and at least in my opinion, there are such conditions in here that this thing will not work. What is worrying is what our colleague in the position of the delegation has shown that national television allows the operator to sign a document to waive his rights, or he will not be on television. I mean, that's worrying. Dear colleague Pšeničnik, we know that we had quite a few meetings together, and we sat together quite a bit during the 2012–2013 term. What was one of the key issues highlighted by most stakeholders at that meeting? That the matter in Slovenia does not work because there is no control in place. Because there's no control. This is a problem in Slovenia elsewhere, not just here. I am particularly interested in the content of the control itself, which things have changed in here, and in your opinion, which matters will also improve for control itself and who will be protected by this overseer. I expect you to see that this same law will cover both ends and in some way protect both authors and users; on the one hand, the authors and, on the other hand, users will not end up paying too much for this price. But here I have in mind mostly smaller users, such as one bar, one hair salon, one fireman's joy. On the other hand, I get the feeling that these major users are also being protected here. At least after the information I received or received from the parliamentary group, when certain stakeholders concerned by this law visited us and expressed their views, I am sure that you have devoted too little time to them or too little time at the Ministry of Economy, I would say, to their proposals for this law. The fact is, Slovenia is such a law as soon as it needs and under these conditions as it is, I would say that some positive button, that this law goes into further consideration under these conditions, cannot be squeezed under such conditions. However, I am sure, given the voting machine of this coalition, that you will probably be this law given that it was prepared by the government on your part, because this is not the opposition proposal for the first reading, but you will, of course, confirm that the law is suitable for further consideration. But then I expect a second reading and this content that you will know how to listen to, and I think that there should be a common interest in all of us here, that we should make such a law that will protect both users and authors in particular here, and that, above all, it will be lifelike, and that it will in some way also try to improve these conditions of control in particular. But control must be clear and this control must be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Here's a replica, Dr. Dragan Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u274	Because I was directly challenged if I thought these promo funds would work. I think so. Article 33 is quite clear, I understand it, it clearly states here that "if the collective organisation has the undistributed copyright fees referred to in Article 35, paragraph 6, of this Law, it must form dedicated funds and pay them in full the undistributed copyright fees". Then it is further worked out, in what way, under what conditions. What did you think, Mr. Pogačnik, that there is no reality here, I don't know and I don't understand. The thing is perfectly clear to me, and I think it's real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marusha Škopac, you have the floor. Get Mr. Tomaž Lisec ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good evening to all colleagues or everyone from the Ministry of Economic Development! The special law that we are discussing today is the proposal for a law on collective management of copyright and related rights, which is a suitable way to solve the problems of the existing collective governance system in the Republic of Slovenia not only by its content but also by its form, it is like a special law that has excluded the entire area of collective governance from the System Law on Copyright and Related Rights. I also believe that the purpose of the bill is not only to implement the European Collective Organisations Directive, but it is one of the many attempts to regulate the many challenges faced by the users of the collective management system in Slovenia. I'll explain why I think so. The proposal for a law on collective management of copyright and related rights is, in my view, a mere technical regulation that sets uniform minimum standards and conditions that the collective organisation must respect in its internal organisation and in the management of its monopolistic activity. To begin with, given that the areas in which collective organisations operate are mostly linked to culture, it is extremely important in today's debate on the collective management system not to mix the demands of professional, responsible, efficient and transparent collective organisations with problems related to the respect and exercise of copyright in Slovenia in general, with the question of the economic and social situation of creators in Slovenia and their existence, with questions about the global injustice of the intellectual property system and the monopolistic positions of global multinationals in the entertainment industry. The above-mentioned very important issues must be addressed, but not through other channels, but through legislation that regulates the working conditions of collective organisations. The bill that we are discussing today is therefore merely a technique that sets out how collective organisations in Slovenia should be organised and how they should be managed with the aim of being able to effectively collect as many copyrights as possible and without delay and with small costs to actually distribute to the final beneficiary, and how collective organisations should negotiate and conclude appropriate agreements with users and effectively resolve disputes with users. All other arguments, which see in the bill the destruction of Slovenian creators and Slovenian language and culture, are merely to cover up the real problems in collective governance and populism manipulation in the interest of individual interest groups. Otherwise, the very important conditions for cultural creation are the subject of the country's cultural policies and by no means of copyright. Let me remind you, collective organisations are a special feature of copyright that allows authors and right-holders to manage them more easily and efficiently in situations of mass exploitation of their works and allows users easy access to the legitimate use of many works. Thus, collective organisations are one of the basic infrastructures in the field of copyright that bring both to the creators, that is to the authors, as well as to the users of certain advantages and eliminate the problems and transaction costs arising from direct cooperation between creators and users. That is why I would like to emphasise today that collective organisations are very important and their existence is crucial for authors and users. Their effective and transparent operation strengthens confidence in the copyright system itself. Throughout history, the sole purpose of copyright was to encourage the creators of creation economically and morally. In fact, if the creator acquires the exclusive right of use on his own terms, this is the greatest incentive and motivation for him to create and survive. In view of the role of collective organisations, the credibility of authors and rightholders is crucial for their existence. There is no such confidence in Slovenia. If that is not the case, collective organisations do not carry out their mission and do not contribute to the perception of copyright as economic incentives for creation. Trust in the collective organisations in Slovenia is not for different more or less justified reasons. Among other things, because of the lack of knowledge and lack of respect for copyright such as such, domestic, discriminatory and sometimes ineffective and, in particular, imprudent activities of collective organisations, where, as a rule, the results of operations other than those of collective organisations are not clear to anyone. Not to the auditors themselves who confirm their financial statements many times. I also think that there is no confidence on the part of authors and users in the ability of the State to ensure the efficient and transparent functioning of collective organisations through appropriate regulatory measures and administrative measures. Therefore, it is our task, my fellow Members and colleagues, to confirm the proposed law and to safeguard copyright and its mission and to restore the confidence of all stakeholders in the collective governance system and thus in copyright by setting unified standards of business, operation and management of collective organisations. This will show that copyright, for some, the only source of survival, is completely equivalent to other forms of private property. The bill introduces new, higher standards of business of collective organisations that are fully in line with good practices in Europe, where there is an increasing professionalisation of the management of collective organisations by well-trained individuals. Collective organisations in Europe are losing their original union spirit. It seems to me that the most effective provisions allow for a single position that gives members of collective organisations the necessary levers – the so-called minority rights – and the right to documentation of a collective organisation, which can provide effective internal control over the work of collective organisations and their leadership and non-discrimination of individual categories of authors. I also strongly support a more transparent arrangement of promotion funds or dedicated funds for the purpose of promoting cultural and artistic creation and for social and educational purposes. Let me finish. I think that when the law is effectively implemented, it will allow greater confidence in the functioning of collective organisations and their leadership and thus restore confidence in the Institute of Copyright itself. With greater legitimacy and confidence from all stakeholders, collective organisations will also be easier to capitalise on all the good they have built in the years of their existence. However, I would like to see the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take a step further, and this year it will place even more important in the National Assembly than in the area of collective governance, also a thoroughly reformed Systemic Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which will adequately address the challenges of the information society and allow further restrictions on copyright in the undisputed public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the word, and then we are moving to the final part and he will also be given the floor by the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you, once again, for your word, Madam Vice President. More debate, let us hold the debates of the predecessor. She said, "But there's an even more important ZASP ahead of us." Your Honor, why didn't you first arrange for ZASP if you wanted to put collective organisations in a special marriage? The Law on Copyright and Related Rights has ten chapters: general provisions, copyright, copyright in legal traffic, special provisions, related rights, this infamous sixth chapter on governance, the exercise of rights, the protection of rights, relations with foreign elements, criminal provisions and transitional provisions. Today, however, I hear that collective organisations are something new or not necessary. Take a look at what the existing 6th chapter says about collective organisations: compulsory collective management, the application for authorisation, but if you read what you put into law, it will soon be possible that only one or maybe two dedicated collective organisations will perform their role and then there will be no problem for a single pool if we have one collective organisation, and the law prohibits the establishment of new organisations and prevents the rightholder from having a free choice of an organisation that manages its rights. Then, the existing law goes on to say: the author's contract, the right to receive rights, the income-sharing rule, a special case, the obligation to communicate, the common agreement and so on. There's a law. At first, I said there were anomalies and they needed to be fixed. We have a body that should take care of the issue of collective organisations, and in my opinion, with all due respect for the body, my authority is the key culprit for us to speak, which collective organisation is against which and which author is against which. If the Office acted under the existing law, there would be almost no need for any change. Perhaps a change is necessary, with which collective organisations themselves agree. You will not believe that when we called on the Commission to oversee public finances and – I think – the Committee on the Economy, on a proposal from the SDS, the representatives of the two largest collective organisations have almost identically agreed on what is wrong and what needs to be changed. But this bill doesn't solve it, Your Honor. In short, I will continue where my colleague Marko, the creators' rights owner, ends up. The predecessor said that rights should be protected, trust between authors, but creators and authors are against. Why do we write a law to protect the rights of the authors and give them some insurance if they're authors and creators against it? Kind of doesn't work. We'll save something for them, and they're against it. Then what did you do for them? Nothing. I hope that further discussions will respond to some key challenges from the Ministry. Perhaps you yourself have received letters from several stakeholders, as I said, only one or two stakeholders I have missed who are probably smartly silent, whether they agree or have arguments as to why these stakeholders oppose the bill. In short, copyright and related rights should be regulated, they had good drafts of the bill, but by how you mistranslated the directive, you've ruined everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Cantarutti, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor, allow some comments or short answers to your debates and thank you also for all your suggestions, ideas in today's debate. In the course of the legislative process, when there are good proposals from collective organisations, we will certainly try to take this into account. And while I am at it, once again, let me stress the fact that this is a matter of transparency, the preparation of the law actually mentioned. If there is a law, then we are very well aware here in the ministry that transparency is extremely important because we are interfering with a very sensitive area in the public eye, and this public is also an influential public, especially since the first day, in fact — not least in other laws — we have been concerned that the procedure has been transparent. We have prepared several meetings, several meetings with different stakeholders, mentioned in the introduction, received more than 40 written comments, the participation of stakeholders was numerous, discussions were numerous and a number of comments were taken into account and included in this proposal. However, we have also heard further or in the debate that three of the five collective organisations oppose the proposal. True, here I have 14 pages of responses to the concerns raised by the three collective organisations mentioned. Unfortunately, we find that in the vast majority of cases the concerns were of a general nature and we could not really take them into account. In my opinion, why the opposition? Of course, the matter hurts; it hurts because it interferes with a relationship, some condition that at this point corresponds to some, and I am firmly convinced that most do not. I would like to point out that we understand the concerns as a fear of some adjustments that will have to be introduced into governance, business, reporting on collective organisations and everything we have heard and listed today. Managing collective governance under the new law, separate from other copyright law – here is also where we heard one thought. Many reasons led us to prepare this new law. The regulation of collective governance in law, separate from copyright law, will, in our opinion, open the process or release the process of recasting copyright, we will also establish a so-called twin, not least on 14 January of this year, by which the Economic Committee and the Commission for the Supervision of Public Finance of the State Assembly ordered the Ministry to draw up a proposal for a collective governance law and to ensure greater transparency in the functioning of collective organisations and greater involvement of rightholders in the adoption of key decisions of collective organisations. So we are also preparing the second part - we have already announced that we will - on the reform of collective governance, in the second half of this year will be followed by the renovation of the material part of copyright and related rights. Here we follow the practice or arrangements that are typical of most countries in Europe – Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom and elsewhere, as we say, within the European Union. That the bill is out of order. The proposal contains 87 articles, this is true, but 34 articles of the Copyright and Related Rights Act have been transposed and 45 articles of the Collective Organisations Directive, and 5 articles of the two other Directives have been transposed. In short, there's one place where we're managing this area. What I would like to point out and highlight has also been mentioned in today's debate on the translation of the directive. Of course, if you think that we have translated some things wrong, please give us concrete suggestions, let's be clear, let's be concrete, specify this in your proposal – we will be happy to examine them. If it turns out that there has been a misinterpretation, whether with Google or otherwise, we will, of course, also take this into account in the next legislative process, but I say so, and I believe that colleagues have done it more than correctly. Here I am also responding to the possibility that in preparing this proposal, either individuals, organisations, God do not give to the uncle. Here I assure you that this law has been prepared by colleagues from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology with all the knowledge and experience they have in this area, and there are no external experts or whisperers involved. I would also mention the implementation or control provided for in this proposal. Under the Directive, the State must establish procedures by which it can monitor the compliance of collective organisations with the provisions of the law. The bill follows the guidelines presented, provides for measures to be taken under administrative control, including fines in the criminal plan. If I list these administrative measures, they will be followed in the next order, following the principle of proportionality and gradual escalation of the legal coercion. First, the order, as it says, found violations. In the event of failure to remedy infringements, the competent authority shall, in the light of the gravity of the infringement itself, order the collective organisation to recall members of the management. It will follow, under three, the withdrawal of the permit as a last resort. In addition, the proposal for a law provides for the possibility that the withdrawal of a permit will not take place if the infringements are only resolved at the end of the phase and the collective organisation does not commit any new infringements at a certain time. [[…]] Well, it's getting worse, but there's always a chance that the collective organization will set up its own business. That's what this is about. Towards the end again; I think that this foundation or draft, which is before us today, is a good foundation. As we say, we continue the dialogue; we have no problem with it. Believe me, if good proposals are now to be made in the process below, we also have no difficulty in taking them into account for the benefit of the acquis in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u281	Thank you very much. You've got your word. The time has not yet run out, so, of course, if the interest is still good, I will give you time to report, if the government representative also wants to, please also, if you press the key to turn on the microphone. [[…]] Please sign up for the debate. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u282	Thanks again. Dear Secretary of State, thank you very much. We talked about the directive. The possibility for the right holder to freely choose a collective management organisation to manage his rights. This is what we want in the law, which is also part of the directives. Second thing. If the author could only manage his rights more effectively without a collective organisation, the law makes it impossible for him to do so contrary to the directive. We too, when we were preparing the law in the middle of last year, sitting with various collective organizations, and you won't believe the first time we came out with the idea of a single stand, they said if we fell on our heads. In the end, they said that there was only one way to reconcile. When we talked about limiting the cost of doing business for individual collective organisations, which Mr Matić previously talked about, there was no problem at all. We did not snitch, 10, 15% were immediately willing to give in and prove for themselves that they agreed to lower this. With regard to the promotion of funds, the authors themselves, creators and members of collective organisations asked that this could be done inside. But, interestingly, in these days, we get from these same people that it's not practical to do this. Therefore, it is also my call to agree with those who learn about it in practice that this promotion will be a fund – or this fund, either for the social needs of the authors or for the creation of a younger generation of Slovenian authors – that it will be feasible not to be another letter on paper. Let me finish. In addition to what I said earlier about the directive, Madam Secretary of State, it is our view that we should first address the issue of copyright and related rights, and then, or at the same time, resolve the issue of collective organisations. And if you're talking about control, absolute control, and you're talking about control, and you're talking about control, you're talking about absolute control, but you're already in the law in force, and you're talking about collective organisations when they were fighting each other, which is beautiful, and how that other organization is bad, you're not going to believe it, they all said, "If the country were doing what's in the law, everything is available." Members of the organisations themselves have an opportunity to look at the reports and so on in accordance with Article 160 and certain other specific articles. But it is crucial, and these are all representatives of collective organisations and some other stakeholders have spoken because the country does not do its own, they are anomalies. They want to eliminate the anomalies, but they will not themselves eliminate them without the help of the state, because the country is the one with the hand – and it is right that it has the hand, absolutely right – but according to the existing legislation is written in a number of good ones, but you do not touch some of the key problems in the field of copyright and related rights: broadcasting, users – nothing. At first you went to collective organisations with certain – because I say, I hope that because of Google translation – mistranslated sentences from the directive, you destroyed everything that is a good draft: funds, single position, cost limitation, even better, more explicit control, sanctions and probably more. Again, I believe it was a good intention, but it was a bad procedure, because some of the content was given priority or collective organisations were given an advantage over the issue of copyright and related rights, and if you do so, it is likely that letters from collective organisations will be less fat for us Members. Therefore, it is a real call for you to sit down again in these weeks, in the months ahead of us before the adoption of this law. I don't think anything's lost for a month just to make it a good marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u284	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Economy and, of course, the team present here! Among us are economic law specialists, legal experts, so that, in fact, with today's participation, my presence has also strengthened me in some way to believe that there is a very good law before us that regulates certain anomalies in this area. Where did I get some injustice here? Perhaps I will mention just one example of a famous Korean cantator who received 20 euros for the year-round performance of his songs. Thus, in fact, this case suggests that the current system here is completely deregulation and enables the various anomalies that we have heard before. I therefore welcome this systemic approach, including the entire team of the Ministry of Economy, which, by its approach, has hit the core of the problem – through regulation and corporate governance, will regulate the system that will function so that it will satisfy both users and operators. Thus, some of the debates that we have heard here and a firm search for some of the branches and dots in this marriage may disturb me. I think we need to see, however, that many attempts in this area have also been subject to criticism by various lobbyists. I think that this law is the right way, and I think it is also worth supporting it in further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-18-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. We will decide tomorrow, Thursday, 19 May, on the proposal that the bill is suitable for further consideration. I'm putting an end to the 19th item of the agenda. I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I want a good night.
