ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 35th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, Mr. Andrej Cuz, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Mr. Branko Zorman and Mr. Simon Zajc. I invited the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, Minister of Finance of Magi. Matejo Vraničnik Erman and other representatives of the government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 30 September 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. This is at the time of submission of the 2017-2018 budget memorandum, the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2017 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2018. We are moving to the first part of the discussion and adoption of the Draft Amendments to the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and the Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 in the National Assembly. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present the 2017-2018 Budget Memorandum, the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. There is no debate on this presentation. I give the floor to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, to present those budgetary documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-35.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens! Today, the National Assembly will consider a proposal for amending the budget for 2017 and a draft budget for 2018. With these we follow our constitutional, legal and European obligations and continue the dynamics of the gradual reduction of the public financial deficit. The draft budgets clearly show that the movements of Slovenian public finances are improving. The deficit in the sector decreased from 5% of gross domestic product in 2014 to 2.9% of gross domestic product and is projected at 2.2% of GDP this year. In line with commitments, the country's deficit in 2017 is projected at 1.6 GDP and in 2018 at 1% of GDP. This will also gradually improve the structural deficit in line with the medium-term objective in order to comply with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact and in this way also with the constitutional fiscal rule. The proposed amending budget 2017 and the draft budget for 2018, in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, are based on the current Framework for the preparation of the budget of the sector of the State adopted in April and sets maximum allowed expenditure for each year. At the same time, the budgets follow the guidelines and objectives of the economic policy as set out in the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme of April 2016. The key objectives are to promote economic growth and consolidate public finances by gradually reducing the country's debt share. The preparation of the draft budgets takes into account the macroeconomic framework set out in Umar's autumn forecast of September 2016. In the Slovenian economy, from 2014 onwards we record stable growth, which the Office estimates will continue in 2017 and 2018. Gross domestic product will increase by 2.3% in 2016 and 2.9% and 2.6% in 2017 and 2018. An important factor in economic growth is no longer just exports, as private consumption is also increasing. At the same time, improvements in the labour market and the promotion of investments involving mainly domestic knowledge and work continue. The most important policies that we have taken into account in the preparation of the 2017 and 2018 budgets can be narrowed down to four areas. First, tax restructuring, secondly, public sector wage policy, thirdly, debt management, fourthly, key investment areas. Tax restructuring is aimed at decommissioning work by introducing a specific tax treatment of part of the salary for business performance and by changing the scale for the income and income threshold for additional general relief. This means maintaining and opening jobs in areas that are most productive and which generally contribute more to the added value created by companies. At the same time, an increase in corporate income tax rates is foreseen for 2017, partly covering the loss of government revenue. Public sector wage policy remains an important anchor for the sustainability of public finances. When preparing budgets, the government took into account the existing agreement with trade union partners on the release of certain measures having financial effects in 2017. At the same time, the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other public sector measures, which provides the main solutions for wage coordination and the regulation of other labour costs. At the same time, it is important that we continue to have a restrictive policy when limiting funds for transfers to individuals and for managing the costs of pension funds. Restrictions are therefore being eased gradually in all areas, as no different scenario limits are allowed. Debt management is based on strategic objectives resulting in a reduction of interest expenditure. Slovenia will therefore spend 86 million or 8.2% less than this year for the payment of interest from the State budget in 2017 and 0.3% less in 2018. Investment areas are key to growth and development. The most funds are planned in transport and transport infrastructure, followed by environmental protection and environmental infrastructure, agriculture, renewable energy and energy efficiency, health care and education, science and sport. The implementation of the EU financial perspective 2014-2020 is aimed at co-financing substantive projects, with a clearly defined strategy, concrete objectives and impacts that increase competitiveness and provide quality and long-term jobs. In addition to the policies mentioned above, the Government has also taken into account the broad area of economic policies relating to the policy of the financial system and the management of assets when preparing budgets. All of this will enable us to earmark resources for key priorities. This is mainly the case: firstly, investing in infrastructure for better quality of life and work, secondly, investing in science and employment, thirdly, strengthening the quality of health services, and not least increasing safety in the broadest sense. For these areas, almost €2.2 billion will be allocated to the 2017 budget and nearly €2.3 billion in 2018. The assessment of the implementation of this year's budget shows 1.85 billion euros. The Minister of Finance will discuss all of this further. In conclusion, I would like to clarify something in this brief introduction, because it has been repeatedly exposed in recent times to the fact that our government has a billion more tax revenues than the previous government has had in 2013. That's right. But in that year, the state budget recorded a deficit of €1.5 billion and the interest we paid before the bank recapitalisation was significantly lower. You are now facing budgets whose deficits are incomparably lower – €681 million and €305 million. I am so sure that the proposed budgets are a good compromise between what we have in the fiscal envelope and our development priorities, which are based on higher growth, which is the basis of stable budgets in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of all this, I propose that the two proposals be adopted as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-35.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mag. Mateji Vraničar Erman for further presentation of the 2017-2018 budget memorandum, Draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-35.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, honourable President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The preparation of budgets for 2017 and 2018 took place for the first time this year, taking into account the current decision in the framework of the preparation of the budgets of the State sector. The decree represents an important shift towards improving the quality of public finances, both in terms of predictability and transparency of public financial planning, since the ceilings for expenditure on individual treasury, i.e. for the state budget, are already set. Of course, such a limitation also means more difficult and more consistent preparation of budgets, where there are clear guidelines and priorities. Respect for the commitments made under the Fiscal Rule Act also means that we respect both national and European commitments regarding the gradual structural improvement of public finances and the movement of public finances or the reduction of debt. Budgets 2017 and 2018 have been prepared under conditions of relatively stable economic growth. Although growth is largely based on exports, it is positive that domestic consumption is also gradually increasing, and we expect improvements in investment demand. Growth will also be marked by state investments linked to the extent of European funding. It is important that the labour market will continue to recover and demographic factors will increasingly influence employment trends in addition to economic growth. It is estimated that inflation could increase slightly from the current low levels, but it will be lower than 2% per year as far as the target is in the European area. The macroeconomic situation and sound public revenue and expenditure policy make it possible to improve movements in Slovenian public finances. This is not only our own assessment, but also our credit rating agencies, which, by increasing our credit rating or improving our outlook from stable to positive, open the door to further reducing debt costs and thus to provide additional funds for other priority purposes. As has already been said, in line with commitments, the country's deficit in 2017 is projected at 1.6% of GDP and in 2018 at 1% of GDP, measured according to the ESA methodology. This is also followed by the planned deficit of state budgets, estimated at 1.6% of GDP in 2017 and 0.7% in 2018, after the cash flow. As a result of the progress made by Slovenia in managing public finances, since this year we continue to be among countries with a country's deficit of less than 3% of GDP. With this, we left the excessive deficit process and regained economic sovereignty after 7 years. We will now be assessed in the context of the Stability and Growth Pact in the so-called preventive work for 2017 and 2018 under three criteria at the same time: reduction of the structural deficit, limited expenditure growth and reduction of the debt share in GDP. These criteria under better economic growth conditions represent a more difficult path for balancing public finances, both in terms of speed and in terms of the nature of the measures to contribute to improving public finances. That is why the two draft budgets, despite expected higher revenues, are planned taking into account the maximum amount of expenditure as set out in the decree of the National Assembly in spring. The revenue of the state budget for 2017 is projected at EUR 8.8 billion and the maximum expenditure in line with the medium-term framework is set at EUR 9 billion. Revenues from the 2016 Implementation Assessment increase by 5% and expenditure by 3.8%. As has already been said, the budget deficit is projected at 1.6% of GDP or 681 million euros. In 2018, the maximum expenditure under the medium-term framework is set at EUR 9.6 billion and revenue is projected at EUR 9.3 billion. This year's budget deficit is projected at 0.7% of GDP and 305 million euros respectively. We have set clear guidelines and targets for key policies in the preparation of budgets. In the case of tax policy, the restructuring was aimed at decommissioning work and a slightly increased burden on the profits shown, which are comparatively lower tax burdens in Slovenia. With regard to wage policy, the Government is determined to respect the commitments made, but will remain relatively restrictive in the movement of wages and labour costs in the coming years. The same applies to the policy of social transfers as well as pensions. This follows as much burden sharing as possible among the individual population groups. In order to reduce the financing costs of the country's debt, the government is leading an active debt management policy that will reduce interest costs by 8.2 % in 2017 alone, depending on this year's costs. The government is re-energizing public investment through the 2017 and 2018 budgets, while at the same time seeking to promote the development of financial instruments and tools for re-financing. Both budgets also reflect the re-energisation of EU funding, which has been slowed down this year, taking into account the fact that in this financial perspective European spending no longer focuses on classical investment projects, but rather on investing in human resources, science and research. The policy set will allow us to devote almost €2.2 billion to the priorities of the 2017 budget, as already mentioned by the President, and almost €2.3 billion in 2018. Priority areas can be divided into four points: investing in infrastructure for better quality of life and work, investing in science and employment, strengthening the quality of health services and enhancing safety in the broadest sense of the word. To invest in infrastructure with the goal of higher quality of life and work, we will spend €522 million in the 2017 budget and €595 million in 2018. In the area of transport, they are among the most important levers to promote economic growth and the mobility of investment in public rail infrastructure and to preserve and develop the state road network. In the context of sustainable mobility, the main objective is to promote an integrated public passenger transport system, thereby simplifying the use of public transport. Investments in the reorganisation of state information technology and the centralisation of real estate continue with a view to enhancing the efficiency of the public administration. More resources are intended to finance projects for the expansion and construction of new remote heating systems and to finance investments for the construction of electricity and renewable energy facilities. There will be €370 million for investment in science and employment next year and €393 million in 2018. More resources will be aimed at strengthening the research and innovation infrastructure, promoting company investment in R & D and developing broadband services. There will also be greater integration of science, cultural and creative industries and economies. In 2017 and 2018, the implementation of new content is planned to strengthen active inclusion in employment, including the promotion of equal opportunities and active cooperation, and the improvement of employability, such as social activation and integration with employment programmes, multi-generation centres for families, training workshops in the field of social entrepreneurship promotion and the like. Resources to strengthen the quality of health services from the state budget will increase by 30% over the next two years, to over 100 million. This will also increase health-care expenditure, which will amount to more than €2.6 billion per year. The measures will focus on the system of financing and optimisation of healthcare and the establishment of an integrated long-term care system. The financing of healthcare will aim to complement and modify the system in terms of individual income capacity in accordance with the principle of reciprocity and solidarity. Given the particular need for sustainability, emphasis will be placed on the development of primary health care based on the network of health care providers, together with the developmentally coordinated and regionally oriented secondary functioning of clinical professional areas. Major investments in health care include the diagnostic and therapeutic strip north with the Ljubljana urgent, which will include the completion of a network of emergency centres, the establishment of a health dispatch service, the fire rehabilitation of the Oncology Institute and UKC Maribor, the equipment of the General Hospital Slovenj Gradec, the implementation of an investment in the Disabled Youth Department Stara Gora and the acquisition of expensive medical equipment for several public health institutions. The emergency medical assistance project will continue. In the area of increasing security in the broadest sense, the funds estimated at billions of euro in 2017 and 2018 will increase to about a billion and 200 million. While Slovenia is safe among the least-risk countries, circumstances and urgent development require an adequate placement of all aspects of security. The focus will be on the following areas: creation, planning, implementation and support for the implementation of the defence and security policy of Slovenia and the development of the Slovenian defence system. Budgets 2017 and 2018 will provide greater funds in 2016 to improve the material situation of police officers, and additional resources will continue to be provided to improve the technical equipment of the police. In terms of legal certainty, resources in the field of justice are increasing with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the functioning of the judiciary. This will start with the operation of the Court Management Service, a national specialised procrastination service will be established. The centralisation of information support to court operations will enable the centralisation of logistics services for all courts within the Supreme Court. Resources will be strengthened for the integrated water management area for flood safety measures, for the improvement and infrastructure and for the quality of drinking water supply and for the removal and cleaning of municipal waste water, for the implementation and completion of disaster management programmes with a view to establishing normal land use. Surely there are other areas in the budget that I have not specifically highlighted here, and this does not mean that they are not as important. We will give them more attention in the coming days and weeks, when we will address specific policies or areas of budgetary financing in more detail. After years of crisis, when public spending has to be reduced from year to year in all areas, we have moved on to a period when we can provide slightly more resources in general to finance public needs. The favourable economic climate also increases expectations for the state budget, both on the expenditure side and on the nominal revenue reduction side. If we want to ensure stability of Slovenian public finances, to which we are bound by the Constitution and also our belief that stable public finances are a prerequisite for creating a competitive and stable business environment, we need to align expectations with the actual possibilities. The main objective of the two draft budgets is to identify the biggest gaps where public money investment is needed, while also taking into account the needs of individual population groups, while taking due account of public financial stability concerns, in order to enable sustainable economic growth to continue. I believe that the draft budgets for 2017 and 2018 have managed to strike a balance between all the priorities mentioned above and that they are a good basis for our further development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-35.ana.u5	Thank you. This concludes the presentation of the 2017-2018 budget memorandum, the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. To the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Mir Cerar and Minister of Finance mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, thank you for the presentation. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. Members and Members of Parliament, Members of the Parliament, interested working bodies and the Government may submit amendments to the Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 no later than 3 days before the meeting of the National Assembly, at which the draft amending budget will be considered. However, as far as the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 is concerned, Members and Members, Members and interested working bodies may submit amendments up to and including 15 October 2016. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We turn to the consideration of the motion for a decision appointing the President of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy The proposal for a decision was submitted to the Parliament by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing mag as Chairman of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. Mr Dusan Verbič and Ms Vojka Shergan, Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. That concludes this point. I conclude the 35th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
