ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Mursich, mag. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, pardon, Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček – congratulations to the change of title, I will be in person when he comes – Mr. Andrej Čuš, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek until 16:00, Mr. Igor Zorčič from 15:00 onward, Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr. Marjan Dolinšek and Mr. Jernej Vrtovec. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the Minister for Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anjo Kopač Mrak to the 28th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate for the second Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of Mags. Mojco Planinšek and the representative of the Council of Justice on agenda 30 and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. We are moving on to the agenda of the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 3 June 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. The Joint Left Group proposes that the agenda of the 20th meeting withdraw the 24th item, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on a Single Court of Patents. You have received a proposal of 10. 6. 2016 and published on e-club. Does the representative of the United Left want to speak as a motion for withdrawal? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This proposal to ratify the Single Court of Patents Agreement last week is expected to go somewhat peacefully on the Committee on Foreign Policy if, in fact, there is not a significant and broad response mainly to the professional and interested public. On the committee we were able to listen to the views of the Association of Slovenian intellectual property representatives, we received a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry also took part in the meeting. What is the biggest problem with this ratification, if it occurs, is in particular what the said representatives have pointed out in some way. It is a matter of insufficient and insufficient public debate until this agreement. Those most affected by this agreement have not had the opportunity to identify themselves and also to propose additional solutions or appropriate corrections to the government. Furthermore, what is most important at this time has not been done in short, a clear analysis of how this agreement would affect the Slovenian economy at this time. If the warnings given mainly by craftsmen or representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in Slovenia were to be heard, these consequences would, of course, be catastrophic for this sector. Here, let me mention that there is a possibility that this agreement will not be ratified at this time, that we can join it later, and in the United Left we feel that it would be necessary to listen at this moment to those who will be reached to the greatest extent by this agreement and affect their functioning, especially in the light of the fact that we will not again or in some way literally bring ourselves into some unpleasant situation where the Slovenian economy will be again suffering. Among other key solutions provided by this Agreement are the three single courts established in London, Munich and Paris, in three cities of three countries where, in fact, the highest number of patents were registered prior to the year of the signing of the Agreement. This is also a strong impact on the interests of this country in patent law and also on how patent actions would be handled, which would also increase the costs that Slovenian companies would have in procedures that would now take place abroad. These are just some of the segments of this agreement that are negative for our economy, so we propose to withdraw this item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u3	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on the withdrawal proposal and we are moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the 24th item from the agenda. We're voting. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up. It's working now. Did you all check it out? Okay. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present and 52 votes against 17. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you have adopted it with reference and with an amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 20th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written applications for 36 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the Prime Minister and by the opposition members and the Member of the ruling coalition's question. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, from 17:00 onward, Mr Gorazd Žmavc, Minister responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries, and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, and mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior from 13.30 p.m. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Dr Miro Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to ask a question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u4	Good afternoon, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, President of the Government, President of Parliament! Time is running extremely fast, you won't believe it, but this government will be around half the term in a few days if, of course, it lasts until the end of its term. During the first year of this government, the government was mainly involved in setting up a team, seeking out real ministers. From the beginning of this government has been replaced, say and write, as many as six ministers and ministers. It followed the second year, which was intended to adopt positions in key state institutions, where money flows, such as the Slovenian State Holding, DUTB, the meeting of key cities in Dars and some other companies are listed. I am particularly interested, Prime Minister of the Government, when will you take the initiative to change those areas in our society that require urgent changes. You often say that we must not complain, that we must not complain, that is why I will avoid these things on purpose today, and I will talk about the challenges that await us, not the problems and problems, but the challenges. I am sure that Slovenian society and all of us, and especially your government in at least three areas, are facing important challenges. One such area is certainly demographic change. Another area is mattresses and not a good business environment. The third area is certainly a security threat. Dear Prime Minister, I'm interested in: What reforms do you intend to address in the rest of the time until the end of your mandate? What are the reforms you are going to undertake to respond properly to all these three challenges that await you? Certainly demographic changes require certain changes in the health system, the pension system. Certainly the challenges in the business environment require tax changes, and last but not least what is happening around the world and around us requires certain changes in the security sector. So a very specific question, the President of the Government: What are the reforms that we can expect from your government until the end of this mandate?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u5	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u6	Thank you very much, distinguished Member! First of all, let me make it very clear that you're wrong when you say that we've been dealing mainly with setting up ministers and teams so far. As you know, in two years we've done a lot of things that wasn't done before. In Slovenia we have set up such a public financial image that we are once again a good host with public finances. Europe has acknowledged this because it has exempt us from its control. There is no longer the danger of a threesome, now Slovenia is a consolidated country that successfully manages its public finances and is recognised as such. I don't know if you've noticed, but that's what it's all about, even the employment that we've been through since, this government, we've taken over, it's growing, which is extremely important for our people, that they can actually give themselves and their families some dignity with their jobs. Unemployment is falling, and among other things we have enabled economic growth, which is stable, and this is still a great deal. Let me add that the State Investment Management Strategy has also regulated the management of state property, which was not available in the past year, and has allowed for various bad and corrupt practices. Of course you're right. We have to keep looking. And the government keeps looking forward. We have a lot of improvements here. The most important concern is the area of pension and health care, then also tax restructuring, which should further help the economy, including the removal of administrative burdens, and here we have the area of fiscal governance. Let me be a little more clear about these areas. In the area of pension and disability insurance, we know that we have presented the White Paper, which is now under discussion. On this basis, we will also continue to reform the pension regime. We know, in fact, that the reform measures so far have already yielded the first results, but that they need to be upgraded. I am sure the government will and will personally endeavour to adopt, within this mandate, those agreed amendments to the legislation that will address this issue properly, so that we can pay more decent pensions to people and that they can enjoy a safe age, so that the pension system will continue to be financially sustainable. In this area, the Minister of Labour also has a number of tasks, which will also be able to explain in more detail in the coming days. She assured me that in the coming weeks, she would also make a proposal for a law that would allow for a combination of greater flexibility of labour legislation and greater safety of workers. What's this all about? Look, it is very important that we help the economy and at the same time workers in such a way that those who work poorly, who are lazy or irresponsible at home, can quickly be said by the employer to say thank you very well, to send them away, but to all the good workers and especially those who are looking for jobs that are in distress, the country with additional incentives and measures will allow them to get to work faster so that they are better protected in their employment status or in situations where they are out of work. And this combination of flexibility and security must be ensured through labour legislation, and this is also now the concern of the Minister of Labour, who will come to the Government in the short term with this proposal for new solutions, as she has ensured. We will also discuss some other legislative solutions at her initiative, such as the law on the representativeness of trade unions, where the matter needs to be handled more carefully. The Ministry itself is already implementing measures, such as the reorganisation of social work centres, a higher concentration of these centres, while people will still have equal access in their areas, meaning more knowledge and more expertise and savings in the work of social work centres. We're introducing an IT calculation. There is a substantial change in this area. This will make it very clear to people once a year to provide information on their annual allowances for children's allowances or all subsidies so that administrative simplifications, financial savings and human resources discharges can be achieved. In the area of health, only briefly, some of the most important legislative changes leading to this thorough reform of the health system will be adopted this year, in order to preserve what is good, especially in the field of public health, of course with some additions in the field of private, which is normal, but to strengthen public health and help people to reduce the waiting types this year and then to continue this intensely, and to allow better work for doctors, nurses, medical technicians, grandmothers and everyone else who strives for people. It's for a little while. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u7	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor to request a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u8	President of the Government, in the recent elections in Croatia, one of the famous TV commentators said they needed a government president who would be smart, brave and crazy. Smart to have good solutions for the country. Brave to have the power to carry this thing out within the coalition. And he's crazy about doing these things, because if he does, he's gonna lose the next election. We need a similar Prime Minister. But it is up to each of us to answer if we currently have such a Prime Minister. The case of German Chancellor Schröder, who had prepared his country before the coming crisis, was also very eloquent. And it seems to me that the Prime Minister is the real visionary about a year from now. About the things you said, I wrote down what things you're planning, and I'm gonna start at the back. Health reform. Your secretary's been analyzing for a while. Once again, there are no concrete movements. But let me just say to the information that our Group of Members, I think, has been waiting for more than six months or at least three or four months for the Minister to see us for a discussion on health reform. So much for the efficiency of the government team. About the pension reform. There's no big science fiction, we all get old, but the kid doesn't. And there are no magic wands. The problem that you have is the coalition partner, because, as I've heard, it opposes any pension reform. But you mentioned that you would do it, so if you can explain a little bit about how you're going to do it with an existing coalition partner or you're counting on the opposition. And also about tax reform. I didn't hear anything big there. Tax reform is something the economy probably wants and is most necessary for new jobs. You've completely missed that part.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u9	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you. I'll be brief. I don't have much time. The tax reform is, as you know, in thorough preparation. You can expect suggestions at any moment. In the coming months, I'm sure. This is a tax restructuring, as you know, so we will reduce labour burdens on one side and at the same time introduce alternative solutions. These, together with the modernisation of the real estate taxation system, together with the removal of administrative barriers and together with the improvement of the efficiency of the collection of public duties, will ensure a neutral financial impact. As you know, our finance minister has been working for months with the support of the government, in cooperation with economists and all other stakeholders in social dialogue, to reach those solutions that will be optimal here. I think we're just before these solutions can see the light of the world. And this is where a great effort is made. And believe me, we're not just looking forward to a year. In these and other reforms, even in pension, health, I have not even mentioned long-term care because there is not enough time. We are also making intensive moves here to ensure this in the future. We are looking decades ahead, honourable Member. We are aware that the population will grow old in Slovenia and that we need to ensure that people have a safe, quality survival of this period, while at the same time allowing young people to enter the labour market as soon as possible and effectively as possible and that there will be as much work as possible for all active workers. Believe me, this is what we do every day with a vision forward and not for a year like anyone thought. I also guarantee that the continuation of pension reform will be, I do not understand this doubt. Last but not least, if you have the will to help, you can always help, not look for someone in the coalition to back it up. I believe the coalition will support all of this. We have also written this in the National Reform Programme, this is Slovenia's commitment to us and not least to the European Union, and this is the commitment of all of us to take care of our citizens and citizens in the future, which we will experience once again, let us hope, as old and as healthy citizens as possible. Then I would say that the allegations of any ignorance by your client are overestimated. You know that you were even invited to join the government, but then you didn't join it, so you gave up the opportunity to be actively involved in health and other reforms. Now, of course, we are grateful for every cooperation, and our government is open. I support the Minister through this, in contact with all health and healthcare stakeholders. So I will continue to support it here too, so that it will also be in constant communication with parliamentary parties, including yours. Let me make sure that this government in all these and other areas, including in the field of public administration, will continue to implement all those essential and other changes that will continue to renew our system towards a better future for sustainable development and better quality of life for Slovenians and Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u11	Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u12	Dear Prime Minister, I don't mean to be insulting, but given what you've said, it seems to me that you are still studying or analyzing a lot of things or are in a stage of thorough preparation, as you yourself have said. But, Prime Minister, you're running out of time. You're already halfway through your term of office, and by the end of your term, you only have two more years if the whole government lasts. All governments have so far done the most thorough reforms and changes in the first two years. And if you continue to study and prepare for a long time, then this mandate will be over. Of course, people will judge you by your concrete actions. You said yourself you'd set up public finances. I find it difficult to list any concrete measure, except that Minister Marble followed closely in the preparation of the budget what was to be followed by us going to the Maastricht criteria and the frameworks. Otherwise, as far as public finances are concerned, ZUJF has taken care of most things. You said it was growing on employment. I think everyone has said that employment has grown mainly due to strong and efficient exports. In reducing unemployment, however, it must also be borne in mind that, say, the northern part of the country borders Austria and that a lot of our people work there too. However, it was a very unusual thesis that you arranged for the management of state property In all that happened at the DUTB and at the DUTB, the President of the Government must be truly confident that you say that you have arranged the management of state property. [[…]] According to my assessment and according to the assessment of our Group of Members, the management of state assets is a disaster because the key functions have been met by people who have nothing to look for and are not pursuing the interests of the State, but are pursuing their own interests. It seems to me that these are the subjects that this country must deal with. In this sense, let's say we are roughly alike and equal to that of things, or debates that arise 70, 75 years ago and so on, but today are mainly important debates that will give people bread and work. That is why I find the discussion of reforms necessary and also meaningful. And perhaps it would be helpful to discuss your answer, too, so that you may feel that some broader political consensus is also on the part of the opposition, but that in these two years remaining, we will take some step forward in terms of adapting our systems to a better life.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u13	Mag. Matthew Tonin, your proposal for a general debate will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 14 June 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Franc Laj has the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u14	Dear President, Honourable President of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues! Recently or in January we adopted the Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Under this law, the government has established an economic society called the Slovenian National Forest with €22.44 million. It is clear from the publicly available information on the company’s websites that this company still does not have a supervisory board. It also does not have a covered area of sales, commercials, marketing. In accordance with Article 30 of the Law, it has not published the following rules: the way and criteria for the sale of forest forest ranges and the conditions and prices for the rental of forests. Although the Agricultural Land Fund has issued a tender for the submission of individual works in the forests, the company has not published a regulation on the minimum conditions to be met by forest operators, which would be very welcome in the selection of suitable operators in the public tender, given that there is very little time left until the end of concessions on the one hand and in the acquisition of state forest management by this company. The public procurement order for the information system has been published by the company, but we do not know what state it is or what stage it is in is far from complete. The following, which is very important and is also enshrined in the law in Article 9, to set up timber collection and processing centres, is a lot open. President of the Government, I ask you: Do you have any back-up scenarios so that this matter will be handled appropriately? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u15	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for the question, Mr. Laj. First, let me say that all the procedures so far relating to the establishment of the company you are referring to are in accordance with time limits. But it is true that these hands are now very tight to hurry to catch that deadline, which is July 1st, when things need to be largely settled. Let me inform you that the Government appointed a committee on 31 March 2016 to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Society. On 6 May, it issued a public call, which closed on 20 May and received 41 applications. The Commission is now moving forward with the procedures for selecting suitable candidates for the members of the Supervisory Board and will be elected as you know, five members. I suppose this will all take place in time. It is true that we have already drawn up a rule on the manner, conditions and criteria of choice of the contractor in the broadcasting of individual parts of the management of state forests, which has also been made public. It is also true that rules on the way and criteria for the sale of forest forest ranges have not been adopted at this moment, but we have dealt with them in the Government on Thursday last week, and we are only waiting for certain editorial corrections to be taken up definitively at a written meeting today, which we have already confirmed. This will be adopted today or tomorrow. However, the company must also prepare the rules on the conditions and prices for the rental of forests, and this will be prepared as soon as possible. So we are working very fast here, and in these and other respects of this process, I expect Mr. Židan to succeed, as he has done so far, in preparing all the materials and measures in a timely manner, so that the government will be able to launch a new cycle of forest management in a new, updated model that brings new quality to this segment of the economy. We all hope and want substantial improvements in terms of better use of our forests, including incentives for the domestic wood industry and so on. The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia has also published a call for a selection of operators for the implementation of logging and logging in state forests. He also published invitations to tender for the execution of breeding and protection works and for the transport of forest wood varieties. In the event of an invitation to tender for the implementation of the cut and harvesting of timber, all the conditions and criteria for operators will therefore already be included in the invitation to tender. Let me also mention the rules on minimum conditions to be met by forest operators. This is not the task of this company, but this Regulation is already established under Article 19 of the Law on Forests and applies to all operators of works in all forests, irrespective of ownership. Let me say that special attention is also paid to the re-employment of 38 employees from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. I estimate that there is actually a very real possibility, we are counting on this if we move forward with this pace, that with July 1st we will train the Slovenian National Forests to this extent in its operation, that there will be no major congestion in the management of state forests and that the basic objectives of the establishment of a society will not be compromised. So I believe that, although the process is still ongoing, all of this will be fulfilled and all the main processes and procedures will certainly be completed, so that if anything else is to be done in a few days, this will be a matter that will not prevent this process from beginning on 1 July with the introduction of a new, more modern model of governance with state forests and that a new process of awarding or tendering and awarding concessions will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u17	Mr. Franz Lai, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u18	Dear President of the Government, we agree only in that part that time is extremely short, that some of the activities envisaged and planned are taking place. However, the second fact is that, if we want all these processes to be completed by the start of forest management, it is almost impossible. And most likely this will happen, and so is the practice that when so much hasty is rushed, mistakes are made. And that, I think, would not be right, so we should consider this option, how this matter can be extended by 6 months or one period, so that these processes can be completed in a qualitative manner. Let me just remind you that Regulation No 995, of the European Parliament and of the Council, No 995, imposes on the company to ensure the electronic tracking of wood, because this company places it on the market as the first wood. In view of the fact that the contract is open, I am interested in: How this will be possible to end at all, since without the control of this system it will not be possible to establish a business system that will have everything under control. But if that's not the case, there's a lot of possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u19	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I had heard earlier that the Prime Minister must be crazy, then I heard that we have done nothing in the area of public finances. I don't know why we got a European award for best financial management in Europe, but obviously some people don't. Now I hear that it is not possible to do this task that we have set ourselves and where, as it is said, we manage all actions according to our hands and where the Minister and the Government are trying to make it to the end. I'd say it's kind of a pessimism that this country really has too much. I have ensured that we will take all the key measures within these deadlines, and we will not lastly implement them. I've explained how things work. However, if there were any minor delays, as I said, we had foreseen all the backup scenarios, but I stress that delay is only possible where it is not crucial. All the key, essential shifts in this area leading to modernisation, to the modernisation of forest management, we will make and ensure once again that all your concerns, which are clear on the ground, and in general I must worry all of us that the forests in the future would be better than they were in the past, somehow not based on real reasons. I also guarantee that if there are any mistakes, we will correct them immediately. But for once there were no mistakes in the process, for once we're taking the process the way we thought it would be, and as I explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u21	Mr Franc Laj, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u22	I am absolutely in favour of this debate, because this current situation is clearly not so good that we could just ignore it. This is also indicated by decisions made by certain former or existing concessionaires, one already adopted a decision on voluntary liquidation and has already initiated procedures because they are simply afraid that these processes will not run in time and will not run properly. Other concessionaires are just before they adopt a decision on voluntary liquidation. You mentioned you had backup scenarios. I asked you about the backup scenarios, and I expect when there will be a public debate that you will also have these backup scenarios if anything goes wrong, and most likely it will be, it is not pessimism, but it is necessary to look for appropriate solutions if something breaks down so that we do not lose ideas on how to solve this problem in a qualitative way. I therefore expect that you will then also have these backup scenarios, which you did not say today, just mentioning that you have them, that you will then give them an appropriate display in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u23	Mr Franc Laj, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 14 June 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, you have just said that there is some sort of pessimism between Members and citizens. This is probably also due to the fact that in the time of your government there are quite a few irregularities both on the part of your ministerial team, state secretaries, including members of the coalition, and that we face multiple criteria and criteria on how you judge these acts. You referred to Article 114 of the Constitution, which states that ministers are jointly responsible for the work of the government and that each minister is responsible for the work of his own ministry. Today, in my question, I will focus only on the work of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunities of Mrs Anja Kopač Dark. The Minister-designate has several failed projects, such as valuations, debt write-offs, disability scholarships, family legislation, long-term care, although we have already received an earring from the European Union. Today we have heard that a number of things are being prepared, and I am still concerned about how these projects are going to fail. It is clear, however, that the family legislation is a rakrana of the Ministry and is an area where the Minister also allows for legal violations, violations of the Constitution, human rights, justifies a proven violation of the procedures, gives consent to directors of social work centres who do not have the conditions for appointment, and does not require responsibility for the irregularities that are and are taking place at social work centres. If I only mention the process of the Korean boys, where there have been indisputably two violations of the human rights of the family community of children and old parents, as the Administrative Court has also found. At one of the press conferences, the Minister politically covered the wrong findings of the social inspection, although before that she had been informed of the infringements by the lawyer. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I'm asking you the following question: To what extent and to what extent do human rights violations and manipulation of the public and essentially making a fool of the social state, how many failed projects by the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities are needed to propose the replacement of a minister in this department? Is political peace within the coalition really the price you are willing to pay for such acts, of course, listed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u25	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Godec. First, I ask you, as well as the President and Members, how to answer a question that I did not know about in the future. In fact, the written forecast said, "I will ask the President about violations of legislation in the field covered by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities". This is a very general issue with infringements of the law. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, if you'll excuse me. In fact, none of the infringements have actually been made very concrete. You mentioned only one specific case, these are the Koroan boys. Second thing. You've changed your question a lot. You said what human rights violations were needed, and making a lunatic out of a social state and discrimination, etc., to replace the Minister. That's a completely new question. And now I don't know which one to answer. But if the President doesn't interrupt me, I'm just going to answer in the way that only such confusion allows me to ask the question that I'm just trying to explain in good faith that I'm just going to give some important answer, some information. First question of my proposal to replace the Minister. It is unusual that, after two days of consideration of the work of the Minister here in the esteemed Chamber of Interpellation, when you have every opportunity to ask the question of the Minister's replacement through the Institute of Interpellation, last but not least you, as an opposition, are now addressing this question to me and I have already answered this question publicly, several times. That's how my answer is known. The Secretary of the Coalition, as you know, supports. Of course, we are aware that there are many problems in the area of social, social and social protection, social work centres. This is a problem that concerns two million citizens in some way, directly or indirectly. Here in recent years there have been extremely many insufficient, not enough good practices, including bad practices, systemic inconsistencies, and only since 2012 has there been some key conversion here to regulate this work more qualitatively. As it is said, you refer to illegality, but you do not specify any specifics, but you refer to the example of the Korean boys. I believe that the Minister will explain to the public on a number of occasions, including you and the other citizens and citizens on Wednesday, as well as very clearly how this case has been. I have already told myself that I was informed by the Minister that as soon as she found out that it was an irregularity or suspected of some irregularity or illegality, she ordered control, professional verification of the case. When it was decided that there had been some illegal conduct by the Centre itself, the Director of the Centre for Social Work, Slovenj Gradec, offered his resignation for his objective responsibility and the Minister accepted it. The Minister has dealt with this case with with all concern. Of course, it is so that the Minister's subjective responsibilities in this case certainly do not bear. It is clear, however, that each minister is responsible objectively for part of his department, as well as each Member and other officials for the work he does. The assessment that you know in the coalition is also my personal one that here objective responsibility does not reach that intensity that would justify any action in the sense that you refer to it. I'd say you're referring to a family area or something. As you know, a new family code will now go through public debate, which is ready for public debate. Here are now important changes proposed by the ministry or government that will go to the National Assembly and you will be able to accept them here. We are active in this area, both the ministry and the government. Then I mentioned that there is a plan to reorganise social work centres. This is very important. Therefore, there is an effort to introduce greater order, greater transparency, including savings and, last but not least, better services for our people. In order to have more knowledge, more quality, more direct quality assistance and fewer such violations, which are likely to occur here and there either because of ignorance or because of errors. I hope and expect the Ministry and the Minister to address these irregularities here in the future and to prevent such bad practices from becoming more effective. This is absolutely clear that this is absolutely necessary. I would end by not giving any more concrete, clearer answers to your questions because you have not shown any illegality to which I could therefore answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u27	Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u28	Mr President of the Government, given that you did not understand my question when I asked him about the violation of legislation at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, I assume that there are more of these violations, so you did not know exactly which infringement to focus on. But then, of course, you're asking yourself what I was asking you, because the violations that have been identified have occurred in the case of the Korean boys, so I asked you how far or how many more of these cases will you allow in this ministry to request the resignation of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. You said that everyone is responsible for their own department, that there is an objective responsibility here, but it does not reach any level that would require the Minister's resignation. You probably don't have enough memory to know that Mrs. Mrakova has been in this ministry for some time now and that she has not come with your government to talk about the reorganisation of social work centres for several years, even in the previous Minister's ministry, and none of this will happen. Once again, I ask you, or because you obviously have double standards, that is, the Minister of Culture had to leave because you somehow decided not to respect the laws. Here, however, in the case of the Korean boys, there are identified violations in court, i.e. double criteria again. And I would like to know how highly this objective responsibility of a minister, in this case the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, must be, according to your criteria, to resign. Although there is a case where the case somehow develops, new and new infringements in the field of labour law are also detected by the labour inspectorate. Not to mention the case of the director of the Centre for Social Work Slovenj Gradec, then the contracts with Gabi Čačinović Vogrinčič and so on. Please respond specifically to what are the criteria for objective responsibility when the Minister has to leave his post.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u29	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u30	The honourable Member, the criteria for objective responsibility are so extensive and costly, professionally speaking, that it would take half an hour for me to give them to you. I wrote professional articles about this first in Slovenia, so I know. Let me tell you that I am aware of the responsibility of both the Minister and the Government, and I can assure you that, on the basis of the findings so far, I am alone and that the coalition has adopted this position, which we represent, on a thorough basis and very solidly. If there are any new findings, the Minister will have to give you, to me, answers to all the new findings. However, let me point out that this procedure, which you keep mentioning, of the Korean boys, is not yet legally complete, the procedure is still ongoing. I would add, however, that in some ways I find it questionable if in such a case you read double criteria to me or to the government. In fact, it is an event with Korean boys who is shocking, which is painful for every citizen. We all feel bad that this has happened and we do not want such procedures to continue in the future. But these feelings of people are now being exploited in the sense that you're saying some double criteria that don't exist here. Procedures shall be carried out in accordance with legal criteria. The Director of the Centre for Social Work offered a resignation and the Minister immediately accepted it. The Minister carried out all measures of professional and other supervision. And here we are witnessing some sort of procedure that, as it were, is still going on. I would point out, however, that my request as Prime Minister of the Government that something like this should not be repeated in the future, that people are not harmed by such pain, by parents, by old parents in this case, even by children, which is the worst. And the benefit of children must always be in the foreground, in front of the government, before the eyes of the judiciary, before the eyes of the Members of Parliament, the whole country. And this will be assured by this government, so we will also lead this case by solving it in a concrete way and by preventing it from happening again in the future. However, I assure you that this government will also act in advance legally, without double criteria that it has not yet had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u31	Mrs Jelka Godec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thanks again. Probably, Mr President, we're not going to get to the bottom of this, double criteria or not. However, I still need to remind you of the discharge of the Minister for Culture, because you have not given her yet another opportunity, and you are giving Mrs Copač Dark another opportunity. You said that everything needed to be done so that cases like the case of the Korean boys would no longer occur. However, I am concerned that a new opportunity can also constitute new infringements of the law, so that the Minister will, for example, protect irregularities again. On 6 April, at the press conference, she argued that there was no irregularity that the procedures had been carried out properly, in accordance with legislation and so on. Later, a court decision showed that matters were not only as pure as the Minister had said. Given that you have said that you need more than half an hour to hand over matters concerning objective responsibility and whether human rights violations and the Minister's legislation are sufficiently high criteria for leaving, I also propose a public debate on this issue. Thus, you and the Minister, as well as the coalition MPs, who, in fact, are hiding in your answers today, will have the opportunity to explain to the opposition, if you like, and to the public what your criteria are, when you somehow see that the Minister must leave or prevent him from further violating both the constitutional rights of citizens and the legal provisions. It is true that on Wednesday there will also be a debate on the matter concerning the Minister's interpretation, but, President of the Government, you are well aware of the court's decision that the human rights of both children and old parents have been violated, so there has been a violation, and it is very unusual for me to avoid it today, you say that this is not yet legal, but you are probably aware of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which in a similar case has already ruled that we recognize the living community of parents and children in such a case, and it is a violation of human rights, as in the case of the Korean boys. So once again, I request a debate on the Government's response that the Minister, the President of the Government, or that the coalition explain how long it will allow for double criteria and violations of the legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to bring peace to the coalition and to bring their mandate to an end.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u33	Mrs Jelka Godec, your proposal for a debate will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday 14 June 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Vesna Vervega, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Science has changed our lives in many ways. It is therefore important that we place knowledge and science as a fundamental policy for man. Science must be placed in a broader context of social development. A responsible attitude towards science must also be reflected in the design and implementation of government policy. We are pleased that the Government has recognized the importance of knowledge in the Modern Centre Party Group, and this year, for the first time in a few years, it has also dedicated more resources to science and has put science as one of the key priorities of its operation. On the other hand, it is also important to promote cooperation between research organisations and the economy or to transfer this knowledge to the economy. In this way, we will allow Slovenia to follow the current developments in the economy. I am thinking mainly of innovation, new jobs, especially highly skilled jobs and new added value. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: How do you assess the progress of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in improving the situation of science and its integration with the economy so far? How does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia place research and innovation at the centre of its development policies? What priorities will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia pursue in the field of research policy and integration with the economy in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u35	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much, distinguished Ambassador Verveg. You have already said in a way that I should repeat in my own words, it is extremely important that this government has now brought about a transformation in the field of knowledge and science. The conversion in the sense that we are looking forward again to the future, that we are becoming a modern country comparable to other countries that are putting much into knowledge and science, and that is why, as you said, we have also allocated additional resources for science for the first time in a long period of drought. But that's not the only thing that matters here. Let me give you a few things. Let me point out that, with the help of two ministries in particular, education and economic development and technology, the Government has, in this mandate, resumed meetings of representatives of science and economy. It is very important that all stakeholders on the one hand and also those around this field are together again to look for common ways to connect knowledge, university, institutes and the economy, that is to say, businesses to be even more pro-pulsive, even more successful. It is also very important that we go to calls under the Smart Specialisation Strategy, which are designed to link the research sphere to the economy. We are aware of the importance of the international involvement of all Slovenian stakeholders in linking the economy and science. This is very important because Slovenia is part of Europe, part of the world and science has no boundaries. Therefore, the Government is well aware of this and, if I give one good example, has joined the negotiations for Slovenia's accession to the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, CERN. The near successful conclusion that we are looking forward to in these negotiations will have positive effects not only on research but on the whole education system and indirectly and also directly on our economy. As you said, in a very difficult area, i.e. the public finance area, we have also found funds here and we have reversed the trend of the current decline in budgetary resources, which has been catastrophic because it kills both science and the resulting economy and other spheres in society, and for 2016 we have earmarked as much as 5.6% more budget resources than in the previous year. The government also adopted a national strategy for open access to scientific publications and research data in Slovenia for the period 2015-2020. So we open science to all stakeholders, all those who need scientific results, and this can make the economy easier to come by. We place great emphasis on basic science as a prerequisite for progress and development. For this purpose alone, we give about 25 million. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport also strengthens research infrastructure, fundamental science and the transfer to the economy. Let me also say that we will continue to seek to increase these funds, to continue implementing cohesion policy and related instruments. This also provides incentives for researchers at the beginning of their careers, through which we allow and want to enable greater involvement in the international environment and in better research infrastructure. We will also strengthen the functioning of the technology transfer offices. And let me say one more thing. I have attended several different workshops in recent weeks and months, especially of young people and others, but especially of young people. It was about creative, creative activities, for those who deal with start-up companies. I must say, I was thrilled to see how much scientific and entrepreneurial potential our young have overcome. That is why I am particularly pleased that our government sees this, that the ministries responsible for these areas, from education to economy to others, are also encouraging this process. The government will continue this because young people are our future, we need to look ahead, we need to be a modern competitive society, an open society, and at the same time we are working to ensure that young people can, even if they go abroad for a few years after more knowledge, come back or help Slovenia from abroad. This is the task that is still ahead of us, which is a very important challenge. As I said, we are already and will take important steps in this shift towards more science and the link between science and the economy to a more successful sustainability of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u37	To the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, I thank you for the answers provided. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. First of all, he will be Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Dejan Židan replied to Mr Bojan Podkrodška's question about measures to mitigate the damage after the cold. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u38	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you, too, Mr Member, for the question raised. Allow some information at the beginning. We're talking about the damage caused by the cold from April 25th to April 30th and then the snow from April 27th to April 28th. The damage assessments by some organisations, such as the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies and some others, are familiar to you. However, the first official injury assessment will be known in the middle of next month. On our proposal, on 12 May, the Government commissioned the Damage Assessment Authority. This injury assessment must be transmitted within 60 days. This is formally important because, on the basis of this official assessment, some activities for individual farms can then be carried out. The legal order already allows us, and measures, reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance, enforcement of force majeure in the case of the rural development programme and the collection of grapes from other wine-growing areas where there is no wine on each farm. However, it will be today, honourable Member, that a public hearing, as well as a government procedure for coordination of the intervention law, will be sent at these hours, allowing some other measures to be taken. First, the reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance of employees in companies, then the reduction and cancellation or reduction of the obligation to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance, while at the same time extending the payment deadline by farms, the further reduction or write-off of rents under the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, is followed by an extension of the provisions of the Wine Act, which allows natural persons a wider area for the purchase of grapes; fifthly, the reduction or write-off of cadastral income on land of permanent crops; sixthly, aid to the most endangered agricultural economies; week, reduction or cancellation of health insurance contributions and some higher levels of aid from the rural development programme, such as broken fruits after snow. At the same time, a call for climate change adaptation will also be issued this month, i.e. greenhouses, irrigation systems, special anti-fowl networks and so on. We are also preparing amendments to the CFP for some other measures. It is extremely important how this law, which now comes to NGOs, professional organisations and some within the government, will be adopted. At the same time, I would like to inform you, Mr Member, that we have been in contact with both Austria and some other countries, which have also been affected by the cold or later by the rolling snow, in the meantime, to some extent coordinate the implementation measures. In all countries, however, we are thinking similarly, and this is that implementing measures will be directed somewhere at a time when crop harvesting takes place. At that time, it is also essentially the time when individual farms lose their income from individual agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Podkoršek, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u40	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! I have asked you at the last meeting, the distinguished minister, but unfortunately you were absent for reasons, asking about the damage that Slovenian fruit growers, vineyard growers and agricultural workers suffered at the end of April. Today it's been 45 days. I am sure that everyone in the National Assembly is aware that agriculture is in a difficult position. And when the ones I listed in the first place, there's a natural disaster, and there's a much, much bigger problem in that. Of course, it is the responsibility of all of us, dear Minister, also of you, who have been leading this sector for quite some time – the Ministry of Agriculture, that when people get in trouble to be able to answer them. No one expects the next day or the next week after a natural disaster to receive money in such or other form. But we have to tell people what form we're going to help them in. When you were talking about connecting with neighbouring Austria. Things are known there. The people who work there in the fields of cultivation, winemaking and agriculture know the direction the country will help them in the autumn when they collect their crops. And that's what farmers expect from you, Mr. Secretary-General. 45 days have passed, and I'm afraid we're getting too far away from this question. They'll allow it and it'll be autumn. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That is why it is so important, honourable Member, this draft intervention law, because in the end it must be adopted by our joint national assembly, because all the measures in it are very clearly recorded, with numbers worth. From this day forward, he is present in public. I would like to say again why both I and the Minister and other ministers, our professional services with the professional services of other ministries in neighbouring countries, are in contact. Because we're looking for the best possible measures. Speaking of Austria, I spoke to the Austrian minister myself several times, and our experts also visited Austria these days, and I know how far they are and how they think. Believe me, we're not falling behind in the drafting of legal acts for a second. We have put our legal act, as others will have to put it over time, into public debate today. And believe me, we're not lagging behind the neighbouring countries. I only wish that when there will be a debate on this law and also a debate on the provision of financial resources for the enforcement of this law, there will also be general support for the Slovenian farmer. There will be a difference between principle and concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will raise the issue of flat-rate taxation. He's gonna get an answer from the mag. Diane Jedhan. This question was raised at the last meeting. Mr. Minister of the Jews, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr Member, for your question as well. Let me tell you three things. First information, just to rekindle the memory. As early as last year, with our joint decision, the National Assembly set a threshold for entering the bookkeeping industry. In fact, we have unloaded more than a thousand farms that have been forced into bookkeeping, according to our estimates. That was done. At the same time, other information, which we also know, has been sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a bill on the identification of cadastral income, which also includes several initiatives from the agricultural ministry. For we have insisted that this law must bring flat-rate taxation into the vegetable production — so far it has been different — and so it has been done. Furthermore, the Ministry insisted that most of the production of wine was also covered by the cadastral income. This is now, although 270 winemakers are not yet within this framework, I believe that we will also talk within this framework in the National Assembly. However, what is particularly important is, let me draw attention to this, an explanation in the law which speaks as follows, I will read as much as the time is available: "It is necessary to find a solution for simplifications for very small processing volumes, which are closely linked to the production of raw materials (agricultural activity), but they do not yet have the characteristics of independent activity and then speak of a commitment already made within this Act, which is already in the National Assembly, by the Ministry of Finance and thus by the Government, when the law has adopted that special solutions for the purposes of the agreement will be regulated within the framework of the rules governing the acquis. [[…]] The adoption of this Cadastrian Income Act, when adopted or adopted by the National Assembly, by the proposer – the Government undertakes to draw up a new law governing income, which will also fulfil the obligation to treat the processing of the minor in the context of flat-rate taxation after the cadastral income. We have been talking, honourable Member, with various agricultural and non-governmental organisations, not with the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, including with tourist farms and some other non-governmental associations, and such a solution has somehow received support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, are you asking for an answer? Here you go, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I know basically, and I know that taxation is the responsibility of the finance minister, but the agricultural sector belongs to your ministry, and I believe that this is also your concern and that you are in some way pursuing your ministry. In larger farms, the quantity of these administrative barriers is not so large because it is a major economic issue, I would say companies or parts, are in short different forms. This is more or less regulated by growing farms. The problem is growing small farms in the Slovenian countryside, which are in the absolute majority of Slovenia. You yourself have given three answers, or three niches, where certain segments of these smaller farms are being partially resolved, but in most cases these problems of the way from the start of the charging, then the e-mail, the confirmation of the accounts, in short, the problems occur in those small farms that have complementary activities. Here you yourself have said that there is still a need to find solutions, which will also be partially resolved by the cadastral taxation itself in the context of the cadastral income, which is not yet determined today what will be the way. There are options, proposals for flat-rate taxation, where we can solve this whole [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador for your concern. In fact, we are thinking similarly, just to illustrate to you where a problem we are facing is possible, and this is, as you yourself have found, complementary activities in areas where they are not elsewhere in European countries. We have left very wide here, so that today farms can produce as a complementary activity, but in fact it is so, it is not cariculating, from miles to many others. We also go to social entrepreneurship, so in a way a step over agricultural activity, and then the problem is how to calculate something that is essentially only connected to agricultural activity by working on farms. And here's the problem of calculating flat agricultural income. This commitment, which we have received from the Ministry of Finance to make within the income package of a small farm and to eliminate them, has been sufficient for us at the moment and also in our discussions with NGOs. It is important to be aware, however, that we have a number of complementary activities, which have all forms of espionage or even something bigger, and we also want to keep this on farms for reasons of relief, when, say, a farmer goes into retirement, and still do not have any income, but we are aware that in large complementary activities, it is at some point similar to that of large books that we need to switch to bookkeeping or accounting management. And allow me to do that because I have a minute at my disposal. At this point, we have made the bookkeeping system very liberal. In fact, the vast majority of farms are simply flat. Why am I stressing this in particular? Because, in fact, where they are looking for a way to help farmers in crisis, let's say because of the flood, because of the cold and the like, and in most cases they are looking for help to the farm individually, and the condition is that accounting is kept. We need to be aware, so I am also taking advantage of this opportunity through the National Assembly to tell our farmers and farmers, yes, it is a voluntary decision that even if the farm is large, it is on a flatbed, but at some point when it wants state aid under an anti-cyclical measure, this farm will not be able to get it because it does not run its books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you have a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u50	Dear Minister! I myself absolutely agree that books should be kept in case of flat-rate taxation or other forms of taxation. That's what they say anyway. However, we are actually taking these administrative steps in segments and too slowly. As this represents quite a bit of time for smaller farms, after all costs and unnecessary administrative steps, I propose that a public debate be held and that small farms are in some way administratively burdened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for Home Affairs, mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns a subject that has been dealt with several times by the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, but unfortunately failed. We did not get those key answers, not by the police, not by the Ministry of the Interior, nor by the Soviet Union. This is a matter of deposits and, above all, the undelivered chemical and manslaughter assets of the former State Security Service. There are a number of records of how the former Uba, or State Security Service, purchased and acquired material and technical equipment, weapons, chemical resources, sanitary material for the military organizational structure and so on. There are plans to build depots of bunkers, weapons storage shelters, sanitation materials and the organization of public and dead hearings for people and so on. The letter from the Ministry of Interior or the police said that the police were unable to determine whether there were records of the transfer or takeover of chemical and murder funds between then SDV, security and information services and the police. In short, after the government's change took place, after the Demos government swore a year later to independence, no one today knows where these chemical and murderous assets are from the former State Security Service. All we know is that they had a lot in stock, and we also know that they were not committed, and Sova wrote in her letter that they do not have the data or the agency explains that it does not have the data, that there would be a formal transfer of funds during the restructuring from the SDV to the VIS, or that there would be any documents in this regard. It's a weapon that can be used for terrorist attacks, there are thousands of pieces of this weapon, and we don't know where these weapons are today. More. There are data on where this weapon could be, data from the Republic of Slovenia Archives. This archive was handed down by the Owl, or at least to the full, all the documents that were produced before 17 May 1990. These documents clearly indicate where the depots are built. When we asked two police representatives at the last meeting of the Intelligence and Security Services Commission about this, one was Mr Jamnik, the other I don't know exactly how it was written, Glusič, I think they said that they didn't know anything about it, that it wasn't enough – and that is, be careful, the official documents – to deal with it so that the police would investigate it and so on. Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: What are the activities of your ministry and the police in the search for the ex-SDV's murder funds that have not been committed and are apparently located somewhere in our country?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag will answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u54	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members! Dear Member, Mr Mahnic, your question is based on a very exposed historical thread. I must say that you have drawn one thread from your previous discussions, and not least, you are interfering with that first session of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, where we know that Mr Leljak has shown members of the Commission one item illustrating that it is a murder weapon. The Service of the National Security Council seized this subject matter and was later found not to be a so-called special agent, but to be a so-called radiation meter and a criminal indictment was also filed against Mr Leljak for the suspicion of a crime of abuse for the purpose of assistance and danger under Article 309(1). The District Court in Ljubljana has also tabled an indictment against Mr Leljak, so that the case is subject to judicial review in this part, as has now been explained. I can't agree here that the police haven't responded. I am also sure that the police representatives at the Commission's meeting for the supervision of intelligence and security services have expressed themselves more professionally than I would have just said that they do not know anything. In view of the fact that the police, as a security officer, have assessed each initiative of this Commission, it has also assessed this initiative by the KNOVS on the disclosure and possible deactivation of hazardous assets and facilities, but it is not possible to confirm the interpretation of the archival documents by a degree of seriousness at this time. The Commission has sent the police documentation, copies of the archival documents and a request for clarification on these options, which you have indicated in your own debate. Mr Leljak also did not file a criminal complaint with the police; he provided only part of the unregulated documentation for which he explained that he was still studying it. In an analysis of these archival documents, the police found that none of the documents indicated a causal link and did not indicate the possibility that the facilities were still in service and that the killings would be located in these buildings, the construction of which is located in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. So at this point, at least on the basis of all the data collected now, we only need to remain in the context of an interpretation that cannot be reinforced in terms of the reasonableness of suspicion in order to talk about the threat to human security and property. It is also not possible to pass on the fundamental fact that, in accordance with the archival material law, the archives are handed over all the material of the former institutions until 17 May 1990, which no longer has any operational value. So we can conclude or conclude that all the facilities in which Mr Leljak found documentation are outside the operational function. Thus, the police had no legally relevant facts and circumstances on the basis of which they could also take the initiative to issue a house investigation order because these facilities are located on private land or are part of the economic and housing facilities of known owners. As has already been said, it does not come from these documents that the police have received in order to put human security and property at risk in any way. However, it is correct to note that any further information may be obtained from Owl, given that the police have also sent a specific request to the Owl. With regard to these answers, we have also been informed at previous meetings. Whether any special funds were acquired in the 1970s and 1980s, and during the same period the built bunkers were still in active use, I think you can get data from Owl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Mahnic, you're requesting a complete reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. As far as the historical thread is concerned, this is my first question to you, because we know that last month, when I wanted to ask this question, I also withdrew this question because of other obligations, so you didn't have to answer either. I advise you to take a look at the meeting of the commission where the two police representatives were. There was a commission, the answers were virtually the same as they were once before on an investigative commission, when one of the interrogators kept saying 'the answer is the same to the previous one'. They did not tell them what the criteria were or what the criteria were to take this seriously. The SDV, which knows what the intelligence services do, was a serious intelligence service. There are official documents of this service, where it is written: we bought it, we bought it, we bought it, it was dedicated to it, it was handed over to the former directors of this service, including, say, Janez Zemalerič, they are signed under it. [[…]] And don't say, Madam Minister, that people's safety is not threatened, but if we have documents before we can do it for a few months, a few years, where it's written, which weapons have been bought, and today we don't know where those weapons are. All the hunters, all the shooters, all of them have to report weapons, deal with them carefully, the police keep checking these people, and here, when there are documents that are official, from the former state, the official body of the former state, there's obviously no problem. I agree with you, information from Owl. But we got information from Owl, it was forwarded to us by the police when the police asked the Owl for information, and they said there were no records. And once again, I ask: Why don't you check it out, it's official documents, I've seen them, they've been delivered to our committee, why don't you check out where these killers are, or are they in depots? Because proof that they can be there, we have a few years ago when some of these funds were found on the Austrian border.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag will answer. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u58	Well, here's where I have to fix you. I said that the reviewed archival documentation did not give rise to any suspicion that these abandoned facilities could pose security risks or danger to humans or their property. Of course, as has already been said, on 8 April 2015 the police notified the findings of the review of this archival documentation to the Commission and also indicated that, on the basis of their request to the Owls, they received an answer, namely, that they "cannot answer the questions raised, because, in accordance with the regulation, all the documentation which was produced before 7 May 1990, they withdrew the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia". So these are the facts that hold. At one of the previous meetings, when I also responded to your colleague, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, I said that the police had a record of the surrender or acquisition of chemical killings during the time of the SDV, security and information service, and the police could not confirm. For this reason, the police also addressed the document to Slovenia with practically the same questions which were already addressed by your colleague Mrs Bah Žibert. Owl answered, as I said before. Also, as part of the examination of the applications of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia and also your colleague, Mrs Eva Irgl, in relation to the evidence of the offences of former members of the State Security Service, further examined part of the archival material and found that, on the basis of what was examined, no elements of the criminal offence were provided, which led to the submission of two reports to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office under the Criminal Procedure Act. Of course, the police will continue to collect powers in accordance with their powers to confirm the circumstances in order to indicate that chemical and other killings are not properly stored anywhere, so far the police have not confirmed the existence of such funds. As has already been said in my first part of the response, I believe that Owl, as the successor of former services, is the only one who can explain any operational facilities or material assets, because we are also not familiar with the operational interests of the Owl. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic, you have a procedural request, i.e. a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate. If you don't vote on this, we're gonna convene a committee meeting and we're gonna open this thing up there. But it's an important matter, because obviously there are killers in the country somewhere, there's a weapon that can still be functional and we don't know where it is. The serious police, after the entire archive, the documents before May 17, 1990 dedicated to the Archives, would go to the police in the Archives, see where it says exactly that this and this was bought, this and this, this and that, and that Below are signed by either the directors of the former SDVs or other employees. [[…]] The police would have called her to see if this was delivered to the SDV and where it was located. One possibility is that it's in the depots. They are also official documents of the former Udba or SDV, which are located in the Archives, which were also delivered to the Commission, brought by Mr Roman Leljak, where he clearly writes, "there will be a depot at this address". And it's even a plan. The serious police would not simply conclude that this does not pose any threats, but they would go to every address and look, for the first time, whether there's a depot and, for the second time, whether it's empty or full. It's not Owl's job to walk around the homes of citizens and citizens and to investigate whether there are any killings in these depots or not, but it's the police's job. The police have done nothing about this so far. Given the fact that we know what time we are living in, that security is no longer self-evident, although security has never been self-evident, but as far from self-evident as we are now, I don't know when we were last, we can't allow any unused killings to exist in the country. It's not like anyone's gonna use them on purpose. There could be an accident. In Austria, they were in one forest, children can play there, anything can happen, and I'm interested in who will answer. Even though the material is that the evidence is that the basis is to investigate, nothing is done. And the question is, who benefits from such behaviour or better said non-regulation. Certainly not for citizens and citizens. I therefore propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this. If not here, what kind of committee? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Jan Mahnic, on your proposal, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will raise a question with the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and with the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, both of you ministers! I will start with what the SDH Act states in Article 4, which is where the stated investment management objectives are listed. These goals are three. The first is an increase in the value of investments, the second is the provision of as high a return as possible and the third achievement of other strategic objectives. In particular, these three objectives should be taken into account in strategic investments such as those of Luka Koper. Why? Of course, here I am referring to developments in the last two weeks or the last week, namely the proposal that came from SDH regarding the exchange of supervisors, particularly the appointment of Jürgen Sorgenfreia to the Port Koper Supervisory Board. In my opinion, it is a mistake that has several consequences and problems. The first is the clear involvement of Mr Sorgenfrey with the port of Hamburg. There was a marketing director for 8 years and 2 months. He also cooperated with this port for 13 years before managing this function. This clearly shows that this man is related to the port of Hamburg, which is, to this end, one of the competing ports of Luka Koper. It should also be pointed out that Luka Koper, as a society at all after difficult times of recession, troublesome staffing, I speak mainly at the time of the Timekeeper's administration, now in recent years doing great, business outcomes are better year after year, and what is also important is that in some ways society works together in all segments – from administrations of other forms. So all the clues here in some way unfortunately show what Minister Gasperšič has already said at the hearing that the second track is not necessary, and when we are talking about the second track, we are also talking about the further development and growth of Luka Koper. What worries me is that we are on the path of privatisation and destruction of the coastal economy. We're not just talking about Luka Koper here, we're also talking about Portorož Airport, but we've heard about the intentions of Winoper yesterday. I have four specific questions. How much can the Government implement or control the basic U.S.S.D.H. and how SDH works? What are the actual intentions of the government with Luca Koper? Is it really in the background to plan the establishment of any holding company or port administration? How long will the second track project last?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Dusan Marble will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Dr. Matthew Vatovec. With regard to your first question, one of the main purposes of the SDH Act and the OECD Guidelines is to separate the function of the State as owner of capital investments from other functions of the State or to separate the policy from management. Neither the Government nor the National Assembly should therefore interfere with the day-to-day management of state-owned companies, including Luka Koper, and the recruitment of members of the Supervisory Board, which is within the full and autonomous competence of SDH. This ensures the principle of independence, which provides that SDH and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of national authorities or third parties. In carrying out their tasks in accordance with the law, however, they must act independently and independently. Exceptions are provisions on mandatory compliance with the objectives set out in the strategy and other management acts and any provisions of the specific legislation applicable to individual investments. In this context, the Government also acts as the SDH Assembly. The government therefore proposes a strategy for managing the country's capital investments and members of the SDH Supervisory Board and adopts SDH statutes, performance measures for state-owned companies and an annual capital investment management plan. The Government does not have any legal powers and powers in the recruitment of state-owned company supervisors. Staffing under the SDH Act is under the exclusive competence of SDH, which must be carried out in accordance with the legal principles of independence, care, economy and transparency. But here's what I'd like to say about the 2nd grade. If the public financial situation allowed the construction of the 2nd track in a classic way, through public procurement and funding from budgetary resources, this would be the fastest route since the construction permit for the 2nd indent became legal at the end of the previous month, and this could have already started. However, since the state's financial situation does not allow for a classical way of building infrastructure, the government has decided to use the financing method we call the public-private partnership to build the 2nd track. Since existing legislation does not allow for the immediate implementation of the public-private partnership, this issue needs to be addressed in a separate law. Given that the entire public, the professional and the interested assesses that the project is too expensive, the government has also decided to conduct an independent study to show where the savings can be made. This project optimization study is in preparation. The Ministry of Finance is actively involved in the preparation of the 2nd indent project, but the main role is played by the Ministry of Infrastructure. It is also worth stressing that financing through the PPP model will require higher funding costs than interest rates on loans under the classic State guarantee method. It is therefore important that the project obtains grants from the European CEF infrastructure programme and will successfully run for the European Fund for Strategic Investments of the EFSI. Our aim is to replace the EFSI guarantee and thus to reduce funding costs. The acquisition of private investors will be a demanding process that will also enable more efficient implementation and management of the project at the time of exploitation. As potential capital partners, there are also some countries of interest, particularly Hungary, which are now having discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, will also answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you, President, for your word. Your Honor, I, too, can, within my powers, answer your question only in the part concerning the construction of the 2nd indent. As the Minister of Finance has already explained, it is essential to develop a financially sustainable public-private partnership model to finance the construction of the 2nd track, which will at least burden the budgetary resources, i.e. taxpayers, while at the same time allowing efficient funding, so that construction can start and end within optimal timeframes. This model of public-private partnership will therefore be used for the construction of the 2nd indent and it is essential to ensure appropriate legal and economic bases. The Ministry of Infrastructure is therefore already drawing up a proposal for a law drawing up further steps in the design of this public-private partnership. The government is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, will you give Dr. Peter Gasperšič a chance to speak to the end? Here you go, supplement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you. Of course, a supplement is needed because there were no clear answers actually. I understand the principle of separation, as enshrined in the SDH Act, but I think that this should take account of the exception, the achievement of the objectives or the observance of the objectives. When SDH fails to meet its objectives, I think the Government should respond in some way. Why is the appointment of these three new overseers, as proposed, controversial? As I said in the introduction, it is also in some way inconsistent with Article 21 which sets out the criteria for the appointment of members of supervisory authorities in companies with State capital investments. Mr Sorgenfrei was also a member of the project group Olaf Merk worked in, and this is a project group of the port of Hamburg, which in this study found that the port of Cyprus is a serious competition for Hamburg mainly because of its back-end links with Hungary. In short, we see that there are serious links between the proposed supervisor and some competitive port, which is, of course, contrary to the principles set out in the SDH law and also the criteria determining who can be represented in the supervisory boards of companies in which the state has its capital investments. So I understand this principle of separation of independence here, but the principle of a good master must also be respected. Last but not least, it is the government, as you yourself have mentioned, that which represents the Assembly, which also proposes the SDH Supervisory Council and so on and has certain levers to prevent the damage that could result from such moves that SDH accepts, and we have seen this, say, in the appointment of the NLB and so on. In short, these are not isolated cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I assume Dr. Dusan Marble will respond to this part. No, no, no. Good. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please, Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u70	Yeah, I'd like to finish. For a little while. In the context of these activities, the Government has recently also set up a company called 2TKK, which is specifically set up to create this optimum model of the public-private partnership, and to then provide all these necessary activities and bases for European funds and then also further guarantees, a guarantee scheme through the FSI Fund, as already mentioned by the Minister for Finance. I would also personally like to deny this claim at this point that the construction of the second track is taking place too slowly. I don't think that's true, because the government has already done a great deal for this project, as we can see. A building permit has been issued, which has also become legal, and we are also at the very beginning of the construction of the extraction track, which means the first phase in the construction of this second track. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure is a few days ago, more specifically 8. June, signed a contract for the execution of these construction works. So I can only once again ensure that the necessary activities for the construction of the second track are being accelerated. This project is one of the priority projects of this government, of this ministry I run, and of me personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please proceed with procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you. Priority projects should probably also take place in a way that is urgent, priority, in short, fast. All developments surrounding the construction of the second track and related development of the port of Koper are neither a priority nor an indication of this priority except on paper. And among these is this proposed change of supervisors, which brought her to the SDH table. These are serious questions about how not only this second track will be built, but also what are the reactions of Luke Koper’s partners and so on. We have been listening all the time to warnings about how such signals, coming from the state summit itself or related companies, have in some way adversely affected the company's very functioning, its relations with business partners and so on. In addition, the social dimension itself is important and probably also crucial. I think you, Minister, have, above all, experienced a strong sense of social unrest in recent times due to all the events that have taken place around Luke Koper. Here we are talking about important things, which are also clearly responded to by the leadership or by some broader leadership of Luke Koper, which in some way goes beyond the established ones or, I will say after the bonton, corporate governance manners, as it is often said, but just such moves indicate that people who depend on Luke who are working in Luke are actually in some serious trouble right now. And the answers I received today, of course, were largely what we had already heard, evasive. And I repeat, in the supervisory board of this company is proposed by someone who said that the second track is not needed, which has been a long-standing collaborator of one of the ports that are direct competition with Luka Koper. Things are practically on the platter, it is clear to everyone, but in some ways it would only be necessary for the Government to acknowledge once what the plan is with Luka Koper and the wider or generally coastal economy. We'll see about that at this aviation law session and so on. It's some serious question that goes beyond, I think it's already going beyond Luke Koper's frames, but it's going wider. The point is that, of course, Primorska will be destabilised as a region, because we know how many people are connected to this company. These are serious issues that need to be discussed more widely in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to the four Musketeers, the ministers of the Cerara government. I have one more specific question. Otherwise, my predecessor may have dragged me away for my tongue, and I will have a continuation of this in the end to celebrate today's session of the National Assembly. My question is this. It refers to steps in the direction of updating the rules for short-term renting of tourists, in short Airbnb. There's been a lot of talk lately about this issue, both in the media and in the tourist circles. One's up for it, the other's up for it. There's a lot of doubts like that, even though what's going on, let's say, in Berlin with this Airbnb. I want to know exactly: What stage are we in in realizing this idea? If I may recall, at the initiative of Mr Vasje Vebra, to whom I thank him for having addressed me first, we have somehow re-examined this initiative and unanimously supported it in the SMC Group. Then we talked to some stakeholders, such as the Institute of Hospitality of Slovenian Homes, the Community of Slovenia, the Tourist Association and other participants in tourism, not least with colleagues from SDS, specifically with Mr Lisce. And then the next steps followed, namely a meeting with the Minister, who also supported this issue, that there is a need to regulate and legally define what else needs to be done in this area. Then we had the next meeting with the Director of Tourism within this Ministry. We all felt that this matter should be systematically settled, not only in part. Otherwise, it took quite a while, and here we, at the SMC, were kind of breathing for the government, so it's at the 72nd letter meeting, 23. 9. Under point 42, that I am explicit, I have decided to set up an inter-ministerial working group. The task of this group was to draw up an action plan to update the Airbnb rules. The aim is also to accelerate the Member of the SD, Mr Germany 12. On 4 this year, he somehow reiterated the initiative to find a solution to all these matters. Mr. Minister, I know the Interdepartmental Working Group is done, and I'm curious: What are the results and, of course, further steps towards regulating legislation in this area? And also to tell the Members how we can speed this matter up, settle it, and make something operational out of the legislative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u75	Minister Restoration, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u76	Dear Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Dear Member, thank you for asking. The Interdepartmental Working Group has concluded and prepared a report, which will be briefly addressed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the moment, I cannot present to you the detailed results of this group's work, as the report in the Government has not yet been considered. But in general, I can say that the issue of real estate transfer is in contact with almost all countries in the world through digital platforms such as Airbnb. Some countries stick to the Wait and See River and wait for other countries to settle this area. Most countries are looking for a distinction between professional and non-professional broadcasting of property to tourists. As a non-professional majority of countries currently treat broadcasting when the landlord broadcasts part of his apartment or house or broadcasts it only for a short period of time, apartment or house in which he lives. The Interdepartmental Working Group met eight times. In addition to the appointed members of the Interdepartmental Working Group, more representatives of other organisations, the Ministry of Health and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Tourist Guest House, were invited to the meetings. Some meetings were also attended by representatives of the Institute of Hospitality of Slovenian Homes, the Law Update Initiative and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Real Estate Management. Since the Government has not yet addressed the Working Group's report, I regret that I cannot present it in detail. However, I can say that the working group has not been very successful because of the unpreparedness of all participants in the change process. This is why others are of the view that they do not provide for amendments to the legislation that would address the issue of real estate to tourists. And according to responses from other ministries, such rapid changes are not expected. That is why I expect that in the future, and very quickly, we will probably also need your help, Members and Members, in order to resolve this area. Expectations about Airbnb before the development of digital platforms in one form or another cannot be blinded, especially before the emergence of a shared economy. This is going back to all areas, such as transport, book rental, kitchen sharing. In addition, this requires the demand of tourists on the market. And that is why it is necessary to become the subject of solving the problem with us. If we want to maintain competitiveness, then we will have to adapt to the new economic paradigms with our offer, otherwise tourists who are asking for such a way of spending their free time will go elsewhere. The Interdepartmental Working Group has drawn up a proposal or set of measures that relate mainly to the Ministry's department. For this in greater faith, I can say that we will take them away, but in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space and others, namely: the introduction of a clear gap between the granting of real estate for tourist purposes and on the basis of a rental contract, this is one matter that we must resolve; the examination of the elimination of mandatory categorisation for all co-owners; the examination of the updating of requirements in the field of minimum technical conditions for catering activities, which is also necessary due to other matters; the examination of the possibility of a lower percentage of the required co-ordination in multi-resident buildings for co-owners who are up to 150 days and not more than 15 days old; the examination of the possibility of lower percentage of required consent in multi-permanent buildings, if the owner or tenant of the apartment has a permanent residence, but does not surrender more than 60 days and no more than 15 days old; the examination of the possibility of the control of the required by the host to operate more than 6 times; and the maintenance of the mortgages have more. In view of all of the above, I can find that we have at least started talking about possible changes, looking for appropriate solutions, but we definitely need to take a very fast one important step forward and here I am asking for support because we are in some way in a dead end right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you, Minister Restoration. Next up is Mrs. Eva Irgle. He raises a question to the Minister of Justice, Mr Magi. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellows! Dear Mr. Secretary! I have already asked you a similar question about your integrity. The definition of integrity is also laid down in Article 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Now, Mr Minister, I personally believe that you should never occupy the post of Minister of Justice, not because of the issue of expertise, but because of the conduct that goes beyond the legal framework. The Court of Auditors has said that as President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, you have violated more than eight laws, several regulations. What is most important, however, is that, yes, you have abused the role of President of the Commission in preventing corruption for political accounting. For a political account with the then government of John Janša and also with John Janša himself. In the event of the publication of a report on the property situation of the Presidents of the parties, you acted unlawfully and intervened in the Constitution of a certain human right. At one of the last meetings of the Mandate-Election Commission, Mr Štefanec confirmed this and further reinforced your successor to the Anti-Corruption Commission. He said the following, quote: "It follows from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia that my predecessors acted unlawfully," he meant the Senate to which you presided, "when they published a report on the control of the assets of the political parties champions without allowing the persons concerned to make a preliminary declaration. It was a political decision and it was a serious mistake." He continued: "This is precisely why the Commission's decision has fallen and that is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has fallen, as Janez Janša's then government." Since you are a highly sensitive minister, we both know that where the effective functioning of the rule of law is particularly important and respect for human rights in procedures that you have proven to have violated, as explained by the Supreme Court in its decision, I ask you the following questions: Do you still believe that you have all the necessary integrity as Minister of Justice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u79	Minister Klemenčič, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u80	Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members and Members, Comrade Minister! Dear Ambassador Eva Irgle, your questions are always a mystery. You have asked me a question, a written question that could be written on Twitter, as some of your party may, and it was not clear or inconsistent with the question you asked me today. However, you yourself said in the introduction, you have already asked me such a question, I will correct you, you have already asked me the same question four times, orally. Orally, not just in writing. Since we had the whole mass in the National Assembly a few months ago on the subject of my integrity and the readings that you have stated in your question, I doubt that I can answer you in these few minutes that are available to me. So just for a little while. As regards the decision of the KPK in relation to the property situation and the president of your party. One of the main tasks of the KPK is to control the assets of the officials and to alert them to corruption risks. After many years of KPC existence, we have taken this task seriously and have done so. The decision, ours, has been confirmed by a number of different courts at different stages; in the end, you are right with a different legal interpretation of the Supreme Court, which I respect. The fact is also that the new KPK Senate has reached exactly the same substantive decisions on this same matter and, as far as it is known, Mr Janez Janša has not complained about the decision, which means that it is final. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, we have also held a long and broad debate. For less than one year, two or three months I was President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption for the period during which the Court of Auditors exercised control. And the report does not reveal any possible suspicion of presumptive irregularities in the serious repeated illegal conduct, negligence, recklessness or exploitation of individuals. Many irregularities were identified for 2011, and the Court of Auditors admitted that we had abolished them, not the Senate, not the new Senate. And even more, in 2011, we also ordered a special external audit. As far as the violation of the Constitution is concerned. With a very simple expression, these things are used in the National Assembly, often by some Members. You're a long-standing Member yourself, and I'm not lying if I say that I respect you in a lot of ways. You voted for many laws, which were later known to be unconstitutional and which violated human rights, not one, not two, not ten, not hundreds, not thousands, but hundreds of thousands of Slovenians. We're talking about the Electronic Data Storage Act, after the ZUJF in the final phase, I'm talking about the Documentary Material Protection Act and the archives, we're talking about the Offences Act, which has passed the Abolition Penitentiary Act and so on, and I'm not accusing you of that because I believe that you acted in good faith at the time. This makes sense of the brakes and the balance in the country. The courts annul something, lower courts, higher courts, Members of parliaments take something, fall in the Constitutional Court and so on. The problem is when something intentionally done is wrong. And now we come to what has encouraged yours again, which is already the fifth issue in this direction, the Commission's statement to prevent corruption from the IVC. I made a commitment not to comment on their work. Mr Štefanec said something, this is his card, two months earlier he said he saw no reason to proceed in this matter. I don't know if it was his professional fault, because if it didn't work out, he should start a procedure against me, because it should be an eccentric political corruption if what he said was true. However, I personally consider his statement to be a statement by someone in distress and, above all, a political and non-professional statement, not a statement by the Commission's Senate to prevent corruption, but a statement by someone who had to defend himself against his own suspicions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u81	Mrs. Eva Irgle, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you very much. See, Mr Minister, what Mr Štefanec has said has already been said and the Supreme Court has clearly stated in the decision. You have acted unlawfully and you have not acted in accordance with the Constitution and human rights. That's what the Supreme Court said. Later, it is said, a few days ago, Mr Stefanec, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, supported this. Of course, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party have all the time pointed out that your conduct was illegal. But let's go back to integrity. Mr Minister, integrity, you know that it's not only about some current function, but it's about how a certain individual behaves. The Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, Article 4, also makes it clear that integrity is expected to operate by individuals and organisations in preventing and eliminating risks in order to ensure that power, function, authority or other decision-making powers are used in contravention of the law, legally permissible objectives or ethical codes. So you have acted contrary to this Article 4 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption when you were chairman of this Commission, even though this law is in fact the essence of the Commission's action to prevent corruption. See, Mr Minister, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, on 2 June we addressed to the Prime Minister a public letter pointing out your illegal conduct, the abuse of office for political purposes and the fact that you should request responsibility to withdraw from your position or explain why you did so at the time. Here's what I'm asking you: Do you think you still have the support of the Prime Minister, who built his campaign on high ethical standards and on the rule of law and justice? Will you personally accept any responsibility for your illegal conduct, as also determined by the Supreme Court and now confirmed by the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, given that you are yourself a fighter against corruption? Here you go, Mr. Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u83	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Some things will never be over. I am not a saint myself, but I believe that I have a very high degree of integrity and that this has also been recognised by my colleagues both in the Ministry and in the government. What does the President of the Government, who is my only boss, think about it? You have to ask him. Once again, I stress and reject, I absolutely reject your connection that the fact that one of our decisions was later found illegal means that we have acted unlawfully. I absolutely reject that. I tried to tell you earlier. According to this logic, do you know how many people you violated human rights when you pressed the button at the time, say, the first or the second of those short Yangsze government, for how many people in, say, phone control, in prison, and so on? We are talking about the thousands of people who have been imprisoned, not one, not in the open section, of thousands, tens of thousands of people who have been imprisoned on the basis of a decision taken last year by the Constitutional Court that such an order for the removal of prison is unconstitutional. So the system in the country, in every democracy, is such that the system of brakes and balances is in place. Something adopted by the administrative authority can be abolished in the administrative court, something adopted by this assembly can be abolished in the Constitutional Court and something adopted by the Constitutional Court can and has been abolished in many cases in the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, each of these things needs to be looked at in detail and determined to determine whether something has been done intentionally, unwittingly, with what degree of negligence. And I'm sorry, in the specific matter of handling and controlling the property situation, now I tell you, I am always extremely proud that we have taken that decision, we have dealt with all the due diligence, there have been many of us lawyers who we discussed at the time and thought that our decision was right. However, I have never, and in a single word, criticized the Supreme Court, because after several Chambers of the Administrative Courts have decided otherwise, I respect that and I believe that our successors will stick to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! As already 5 January 2015, the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food addressed a partial report on the state of agriculture, food, forestry and fisheries in 2014. I'm talking about the fall report. However, half of 2016 has passed, and we have not yet received partial reports on the state of agriculture, food, forestry and fisheries in 2015, and we have not yet received a briefing and a hearing on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly, despite the fact that it is publicly available on the Internet to all and bears the date of 25 November 2015. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Why have you not yet sent a partial report to the National Assembly for consideration? When do you plan to do that? The level of self-sustainment in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u87	Minister Dejan Židan, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u88	Your Honor, allow me to respond directly to you. I have a feeling you've mixed up the autumn report and the agricultural state report. In the last 10 years, we have reviewed the period of 10 years, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of the interim report, based on temporary data and projections, we have never sent available data to the Government, and in the National Assembly there was a debate because one of the Members and Members probably wanted and demanded it. However, you probably agree with me that the Ministry of Agriculture is not the one who dictates the functioning of the National Assembly because the Assembly of State and the Government are its superiors. As soon as the Ministry receives temporary data, this is a temporary report, and it is published online as well as published online by the drafter, this is the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia. A completely different story is with the final annual report. This is also not entirely fresh because it is based on statistics, which are then the final and state statistical office presents, I think, in April and some probably also in May. This report has been presented to us as a contracting authority, sent to us this year, 30. 6. When the Ministry receives this report, it must do two mandatory tasks. The first task is to send this report to lecture. This is a report that I think has hundreds of pages. Secondly, this report shall also be sent to intersectoral coordination. Why Interstoral Coordination? Since this report lists a number of statistics and values, it is particularly important that all these figures be checked by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, often then there are also some nomological additions, upgrades, and at least the financial ministry. That's how it's gonna be this year. It is true that your Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food asked me whether the report could come to the National Assembly earlier. I don't have a problem with that alone as a minister. As the Ministry, we will get essentially an unfinished report of 30. 6. If you want, it will be available immediately, but it will not be final. I will also use these few minutes to repeat the main data that is visible from the provisional report, but I would like to see that those you are looking at are on the Ministry's website as well as the Agricultural Institute, and that you are very attentive to the words in the first chapter that speak and point out the risks of data. In fact, these data can also be changed because they are based on temporary statistical estimates and on forecasts that can or cannot be realised. However, the interim report, the autumn report, is better than expected at the agricultural ministry. In fact, this temporary report shows – but I say that it is temporary, it is not necessary that it will be finally, because we will also deal with it in a similar way over time here – says that the profitability of agriculture has even increased slightly in last year, namely that the factor income, which is the main criterion of so-called profitability in agriculture, has increased by 4%. Why? The reason is quite simple. In 2015, provisional data showed a quantitative increase in production. As far as plant production is concerned, it increased by 3 %, according to temporary data, linked to livestock production, by 5%, so that after this report total agricultural production growth was 4 %. However, there has been a decline in prices during this period and the decline in prices is detected in this report, with a slight decrease of less than 5%. However, since last year was deflation, the real value of the fall in prices was around 4%. Thirdly, it should also be pointed out that costs, i.e. inputs to agricultural production, have also been reduced. The overall estimate is just over 3%. At least the investment costs have been reduced, which is two very important costs, which is the cost of feed for animals – feed production is the most important cost – and energy and energy costs, all likely leading to 4% growth. Now, if you want to be able to read from this report also individual species in plant production, livestock production varies, but finally, after a temporary report, factor income growth +4 %. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u89	Mrs Iva Dimic wanted a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! It is true, I have not confused, I may not have been clear enough that we are talking about the interim report and the final report, but in the past year we have already discussed the interim report in February and the final report in April. That's why I don't agree with your words that we only got this on the table for 30 years. 6. as this practice shows this year. However, I think it is very important that we can talk about the situation in agriculture and we need to talk so early that individual sectors in agriculture can be redirected or stimulated. This is exactly what I was asking, and I have a report on the table myself, an interim report, and I have seen what the situation is in each area, but I am still interested in what the final situation is. I am sure that you already have a final report if it comes to the National Assembly in the coming days, especially in the field of pigs, poultry and milk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u91	Minister of the Jews, he wants to give you an answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u92	I must disappoint you once again, even though I find it difficult to speak such words. The final report of the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia, which will be temporary in this form, because it needs to be lectured and because the procedure for inter-ministerial treatment of the report needs to be initiated, in particular because of the financial ministry and the statistical office, comes physically to the Ministry and also to me 30. 6. Before this report, at least I don't see it because it comes only then and it's totally impossible to deal with it in April, because it's based on data published by the final statistical office only in April, some probably in May and then. It is only then that this large machine of calculation is launched, which leads to this report. I have no data available to look at the interim report at any time, and we sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ten years ago because the Ministry of Agriculture does not send an interim report to the Government. Our ministry sends a final report to the government when we get it. Of course, whenever it comes to public information financed by public money, it is possible for this report, of course, to be dealt with by the National Assembly and then to be presented if the National Assembly or the competent committee so wishes, but we do not send it to the National Assembly after automation. I, honourable Member, look forward to this debate. I am also looking forward to the report coming to the Ministry on 25 November, because the Ministry needs this report when it plans steps for the current year, next year and for the medium term. But we are constantly aware of the warning, which is at the time of this report, but it is very important. This report always points out that final data by sector can also vary significantly from one sector to another, such as the interim report. Therefore, I am speaking with some level of risk about this report, showing us the general movements, whether it is sufficiently accurate with the analytical debate, but there is no answer. We get this information on the basis of a final report that only comes to the Ministry in 30 years. 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u93	Mr Benedikt Kopmajer, Minister of Infrastructure Dr Petr Gasperšić, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, especially Minister of State, Dr Gasperšič! I am again addressing you with the problem of bad roads and road infrastructure, which is still quite typical for Koroška. The most important road links with neighbouring Austria are also no exceptions. Regarding such an important interstate road, I sent you a written call for rehabilitation one year ago for the rehabilitation of the G1 road at Dravograd-Vič. You quickly told me that one section of the section, thousands of meters long, not all of it, had already been overrun. At that time, you yourself found that the road in that section was extremely severely damaged, networked, unbearably and severely deformed, which could even lead to the intransigence of the road. As I mentioned, in last year's rehabilitation did not take place the entire three-kilometre section, but only part of it. However, the rest of the 900m section was promised in your reply that the rehabilitation would take place this spring. Since it has been almost half this year and not a rehabilitated road remains severely damaged and therefore dangerous, I wonder: When or this year can we expect your promise to come true? When is the recovery of the rest of the nearly kilometre section on the said route planned? What about tourism, Mr. Secretary? Please, Mr Minister for the Specific Response, as your reply is also accompanied by citizens or citizens living on this road on television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u95	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Gasperšič, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you, Chairman, for your word. Mr Kopmajer, Commissioner, I can give you a brief reply today, and I am pleased to say that the promise made in some way in last year's reply has been successful, as the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate has already issued a call for implementation this year to complete this remaining section, so that it has already signed a contract for the implementation of the works. Recently, the contractor has already been introduced into the work. According to the contract, the time limit for the completion of the dressing or the arrangements of this section shall be 60 days. If there are no special unforeseen circumstances due to time or anything else, work on this section is expected to be completed by the end of July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u97	Mr Kopmeyer wants to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u98	Mr Minister, given that you have responded specifically and comprehensively, I must believe you, so that I have no further question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you, too. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u100	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Infrastructure, colleagues and colleagues! We're with the Mags today. The Jews have already spoken on this segment of the question which I ask again, but the fact is that he was justifiably absent one month ago at the last meeting. My question concerns the damage that Slovenian fruit growers, vineyards, farmers suffered last week in April. Surely, we are all aware in this National Assembly that agriculture is not in a good position either in Slovenia or in Europe, so disasters affecting fruit growers, vineyard growers or farmers leave much greater consequences in agriculture, agriculture or agriculture in general in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, Minister, I ask you once again in the care of all those vine growers, fruit growers and farmers: Given that it is now one month and a half from this damage, what are the activities in the field of the Ministry, your activities and, of course, all those services that assess the damage in this segment? What damage can Slovenian farmers or those who have suffered damage expect to recover? I am also sure that all those who have suffered the damage do not expect the money immediately, but at least someone assures them when and to what extent this damage will be reimbursed. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u101	Minister of the Jews, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr Member, for the still current issue. The fact that it has been a few weeks since the damage itself does not, of course, mean that farmers and farmers will be forgotten because they must not be forgotten. It is very important that we are aware together, including us, that we now have the so-called temporary estimates that the state cannot use for direct calculation, so it is important that it was, I think, 12. 5. an official evaluation procedure has been initiated through the Directorate of Protection and Rescue, and this administration must give us an official assessment within 60 days at the latest. That's the first thing. Secondly, it must be borne in mind that farmers will have to be assisted in some unusual ways and therefore intervention law must also be adopted. It is very important that the Ministry has drawn up an intervention law; it is very important that it goes to public debate today and to debate in government chambers. I have spoken to President Mir Cerar on a number of occasions about the situation in agriculture, and I have also informed him that we are preparing, and I have also seen some kind of responsibility and also some intention to help the whole government. The Ministry of Agriculture can carry out procedures, it can carry out actions, and it has as much money as it has. Therefore, there is no money for such natural damage in the Ministry, and it is therefore very important that we be able to count on the state to jump over the state budget to help. The measures we are preparing are also visible from the draft intervention law, which is quite comparable to the measures they are preparing and will be implemented in autumn by comparable countries. My proposal, my request is, for both you, honourable Members and Members, as well as for non-governmental organisations, to deal with the draft law with great care, if necessary, we can talk about it earlier, and in this way also help our farmers and farmers, not only to see that it is difficult for them, but that we know how to help them as a country. The framework, however, is prepared with the draft of this intervention law. This is very important. Many other countries, which are also talking about aid, have not yet come so far as to publicly publish draft legal acts that will allow farmers to be helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u103	Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please, you are requesting a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u104	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. And also for the effort we're talking about in this direction. The fact is that it is not just us, our neighbours have these problems, but it is also a fact that in neighbouring Austria, if we can talk about neighbouring Austria, they have found that they do not have enough money in line. But the fact is that the President of their Government, of course with the Minister and with those services that care for agriculture in Austria, ensures that these additional funds will be provided. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the intervention law. I also welcome the effort to see him go to public hearing. I'm a little scared. And perhaps the next question, if there are no funds provided, you yourself have said that your ministry does not have this money, of course, I am afraid that I will have to ask the next question to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. All the efforts of all the professional services that assess the damage that will come to the desired data, which will not be for the benefit of Slovenian agriculture, but I am afraid that it will be a few months, but we will tell everyone that we do not have this money in the autumn. I must be honest because we do not care in this National Assembly about Slovenian agriculture, that I will also say in autumn that it went in the right direction or on the other hand that we dragged these growers, vineyards and farmers by the nose. I will certainly ask the next question to the President of the Government if he does not provide the appropriate means provided for in the intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u106	Dear Member, I can only claim that our thinking is similar. Like when Slovenia was in trouble because of the refugee wave, when money did not provide the ministry as a competent one, but the government as a whole. And the same for other serious things that happen either in nature or elsewhere within our country, of course, it must be clear that individual ministries, including the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, do not have spare money at their disposal. That's why governments are, and that's why they're state budgets, so there's a budget reserve, and when there's help to help people then. So let me put it this way: support for parliament, including non-governmental organisations, including the President of the Government, and I believe other ministers, is the support I am expecting, and probably the whole agricultural space in the coming weeks. Havela.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not the first to ask this kind of question. I wish I was one of the last or the last. It is a matter of updating one question, many times Slovenians like to commend us for being a tourist destination. We well know that we are an extremely transport country or transitive country. In particular, as far as tourism is concerned, we are very much encouraged in the last two, three years, especially in the last year when we are talking about the increase in tourism. It is said that there is about 12, 13% growth in this sector. Among other things, there is about that much in our GDP. My question, Mr. Secretary, is the last. Many times, when we travel mainly along the highway, we witness ad boards that I think are relatively irregular. Not only that, but also often dangerous, especially when we're talking about lighting up these people. My question is of a distinctly human nature, that is, when we talk about a tourist destination, it must be so, I will also say our offer or our surroundings with which we present ourselves. And I want to know: What's your thinking this way? All these years of warning have not produced fruit, namely, these areas continue to be relatively disorderly. We are witnessing different dimensions, different shapes, different forms of interpretation of advertisements, which in some ways disturb traffic, and otherwise this area should be regulated because of the aesthetics itself. I wonder what your view of this question is? Can we possibly expect in the near future any regulation of this area, as I have already said, according to my assessment of relative importance, because when we talk about image, is it the one with which we show ourselves to the outside world? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor and thank you, Mr German, for the question raised. Now, of course, the point of view is how we view the matter, whether it is poorly arranged or well arranged. I will speak from the point of view of the Ministry of Infrastructure and from the point of view of the laws under our jurisdiction. With regard to this issue, the adoption of the Road Law by the end of 2010 has, in our view, taken a major step forward in the area of advertising. Indeed, since then, we have come to a relatively restrictive regime with very liberal arrangements in this area. Measures have been introduced to minimise the establishment of such information and advertising facilities along state roads. However, it is a fact that such advertising surfaces are not possible and will probably not be completely prohibited in the future. The question is how and how they can be better handled. The Roads Act explicitly prohibits the setting up of these information and advertising facilities in the area of the state road outside the settlement, that is, in the area of the state road, I also belong to highways and fast roads. Exceptionally, notices intended to improve traffic safety, notices intended to advertise an economic operator carrying out an activity in a particular building built in this protected area of the road, or in the case of information and advertising, provided that such information and advertising is placed on the public road transport areas intended for service activities or for peaceful transport. However, in all cases, the advertiser must develop an elaboratory for the construction of such a facility and also obtain the consent of the road manager. The controller may, of course, condition the issue of this consent for the establishment of information and advertising facilities only within this protection zone, which are different for different roads, for different categories of roads. On the highway, this safety band is 40 meters, at the main roads 25 meters and at the regional roads 15 meters. However, outside the protection zone, the road operator does not actually have any powers, nor does it have the authority to act as a road inspection outside the protection zone. In practice, however, it is often the case that information and advertising facilities are placed right behind the road safety belt for these reasons, since this way the advertiser does not need to obtain the consent of the road manager. In these cases, the essential requirements of spatial legislation or spatial acts are then essential to the construction of such facilities, which, according to our assessment, could further tighten or regulate the conditions for the establishment of such facilities. Colossals and other agricultural facilities are also often abused for advertising purposes, which, of course, is not appropriate in our view, as these facilities are not intended for this kind of commercial activity. While progress has been made on the regulation of this area of public road advertising, we can be satisfied to some extent, and we certainly want this area to be better regulated, so we are, in fact, monitoring and monitoring, if it turns out to be necessary, even modifying or supplementing our regulations. However, as I have described, this matter is complex, and it also applies to areas that our ministry cannot directly regulate, so that there will probably need to be a few more reflections and reflections on how this matter can be dealt with more appropriately with by spatial acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. This is exactly my intention to stimulate this kind of thinking. In Italy's case, as far as I know, they chose a Solomonic solution, in fact, the laws under which the government stands apply on the 500-metre belt. In fact, I understand that this area is regulated, according to my assessment too slowly and too effectively, it is not only about competence, but also about the approach of advertising itself. I would only like to draw attention to various forms, different measures of advertising panels. I would like to draw attention in particular to enlightenment, inadequate enlightenment, which we have also read a lot about in the media. From whom, if not from us, is the responsibility to settle this area. That is why I thank you for your answer, but I would like to encourage all the relevant services to arrange or to think about how to regulate this area, especially in the direction of some aesthetic appearance of our country, because, according to my assessment, mainly after various early bites or after weather changes, it is possible to see how these Panamans are actually inappropriate to carry out the activities that are intended for them. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And all I want is good solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Minister, welcome! I will raise a rather similar question that has already been raised to you today, but I want to focus on one of the less developed areas, this is the Podravja area, which is also of very strong agricultural importance for Slovenia. During this year, Podrava farmers were first affected by the cold and later by storms of hail and a very strong wind. And according to data from the Ptuj Agricultural and Agriculture Institute, it was only due to the cold in the Podravja area for 36 million euros in damage. Unfortunately, this information does not include this hailstorm yet, so that the numbers will still be drastically different. Of course, it was this hailstorm, which unfortunately also took place in the area of Haloz, which, while already in the affected areas, had affected vineyards. Why? The orchards were indeed in a very sensitive stage of development, and when I spoke to some wine growers, some of them had thus lost their whole crop, so I believe that damage will unfortunately be very high here too. I want to know: Are you planning this April cold — that is, the cold in April is not something common, something that would happen every year — to declare a natural disaster and thus from the reserve fund through direct payments to help agriculture in this area? That's my first question. There were many excuses in the start-up that farmers could have insurance against taking advantage of these subsidies that they had in this area. But we know that since 2008, when this wider area of Ptuj has been affected by the hailstone, insurance premiums have in fact been significantly higher than they were before and unfortunately many have not decided on it. Maybe that's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u115	Please, Minister of the Jews, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you, Your Honor. That's the third question. It just shows how important it is to help people when it's hard for them, because we're all talking about farmers who are having a hard time. You have also rightly observed that this cold occurred at a time when the last 20, 30, 40 years have not been present. Why is that important? Because of the evidence that some farmers receive, why, for example, did you plant in some cultures perhaps earlier than 50 years ago? Because this practice has been the practice for the last 30 years and is then a farmer, if something is faster to start production, it has a great opportunity to save itself from the drought, which is also more and more present. As far as the announcement of a natural disaster is concerned, this is absolutely necessary. But it has to be an official evaluation. I know the ratings of both the Farm Forestry Institute in Ptuj, which I value very much, as well as Maribor, as in Murski Sobota and elsewhere. But these are the first reviews. However, the State assessment must be in order to allow official state procedures to be carried out. Therefore, I am pleased that the Slovenian government has followed the agricultural ministry's request to make the formal procedure that we are now awaiting. If the damage assessment is more than 2.5, I believe it will be, that's what all the data shows. But I won't, you have to let me do this, I don't want to publicly lecture on individual numbers now, get official numbers and say, that's it. It will then be formally prescribed a rehabilitation programme to be prepared by the competent ministries. More importantly, life is about what's going to happen. That is why this intervention law is so important, because everything must be focused in the autumn when Slovenia and other countries start using the aid when the crop starts to be sold. At that time, there will be a real loss of income on individual farms or agricultural holdings. However, as far as insurance is concerned, the fact is that sometimes insurance was substantially higher. The fact is that since the moment the deductible franchise has emerged, simple farmers, many no longer want to protect, because there is no compensation if the damage is 20 or 30 %. My personal opinion is that agriculture must be protected by these catastrophic moments. So, if the farm suffers 20 % or 40 % of the damage, that's embarrassing. It actually makes life extremely difficult for the farm that year, but it does not put it at risk. However, when catastrophic damage occurs, i.e. 70, 80, 90 or 100 %, at that point the farm urgently needs some kind of revenue drawback. That's why that insurance is more important than this. However, since this franchise has been introduced, the insurance has been reduced. I say this because sometimes in some general public there is some thinking that the number of insurances has decreased when the state reduced the share of co-financing. But it did go down a long time ago when a deductible franchise was introduced. At the moment, we have self-insurance in Slovenia 20% co-financing and in fruit production due to problems already in the previous year 30%. If we ask if this is ordinary, unusual. We often hear, yes, and somewhere else up to 50% are co-financed. Interestingly, even in those countries with which many of us are compared, such as Croatia and Austria, they have co-financing somewhere between 20% and 30%, and often 25% at country level. And then something happens in Slovenia, which is essentially a failure. And this is to add its share of co-financing to the local community in a number of countries, mostly organised as a region. Here in Slovenia it is known that this part is missing in some cases. From the state agricultural budgets, I think we are currently co-financed as comparable European countries, but it is known that there is no local community present, particularly through regions. Will there be any need to help? Clearly, farms will have to be helped. However, I hope that we will not opt for help on average, but it is only reasonable to set aside those farms that are not so many, those farms that are threatened by the cold, the rain or the snow at the unexpected time. If we are to help, then we can keep these farms much easier to live than if it were a general measure for the whole of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u117	Susanna Beautiful Šimenka, please, your word, supplement your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your answers. I agree with this work that it is very sensible for it to be targeted. In the area where I come from, there's a belt where farmers really suffered high damage, maybe, I don't know, one little distance away, and there's actually no damage. Unfortunately nature chooses its course a little bit. I still want to know: If the target is set, how would these criteria be laid down in such a case? You mentioned this intervention law — Why Only in the Fall? The intervention law is interventional by its very name, precisely because it is necessary because it needs to be prepared as soon as possible. Why not prepare this law before the summer, and it is a month before that, and in fact the procedures could be so much faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u119	Minister of the Jews, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much. That's exactly what we're thinking. Our proposal is that the intervention law has been adopted in some way before parliamentary holidays, and it is important that we observe when it should be paid. In these crops, it must be realized, however, that farmers, as far as cash flow is concerned, have not mostly suffered damage now, because these crops, for example, if we look at when grape harvesting is in a very different time of year and then farmers are barely successful in getting money for the crops sold. In principle, the cash flow is expected to adapt to the current of crop sales somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan is next. He will ask the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you. Dear Minister Gasperšič, The basis for carrying out the activities for the construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway is the adopted Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the Drazenci section – the International Border Crossing Point of Gruškovje, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 75/2010, 24/ 9. 2010 and Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the section of the Drazenci motorway – the International Border Crossing Point of Gruškovje, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 56/2012 of 23 July 2013 Seven. 2012. On the basis of the VAT Regulation, the PGD project was also developed, in October 2011 the environmental agreement was issued by Arso September 2012, and land purchases for construction were completed. All 31 buildings to be demolished were also purchased. The project for the implementation of the PSC is completed, all the contract works have been completed by the end of September 2014. The investment programme, claimed by the management of Dars d.d. on 4 June 2014, was produced and approved. The investment approval decision was signed by the Ministry of Infrastructure on 19 November 2014. The construction permit for the first stage of the motorway up to 7,25 km and for part two of the second stage was obtained on 25 August 2014. For the second stage of the motorway up to 13.03 km on 15 May 2015. Investment is very important for the wider environment in which it is placed, as well as for important European transport flows. At the same time, many of the added values brought by the investment itself remain the constraints caused by the construction activities themselves on very busy transport relations. On the basis of long-standing practices in the flow of traffic during the summer months on the road at the highway construction site itself, the construction of the motorway with its course has a significant impact on the existing use and structure of the space, mainly by facilitating coordination with local community and other stakeholders on the proper management of the missing infrastructure. However, construction activities have a significant impact on traffic flow, which has been critical in recent years in the summer months. Mr. Minister, as a Member in this field, I ask: Have you yet approached the endowment of the negative consequences to which, due to the limited traffic flow, the wider Podrav region will be subject or how you will do so? This will be saturated during the summer with extremely burdened traffic flows, which can also bring major traffic congestion and have a significant impact on the quality of life of the surrounding population, and also bring a particularly burdensome situation for individual economic sectors of economic operators in the area of the construction site. From this point of view, it is essential that appropriate corrective measures be taken with the project’s competent stakeholders. I am referring to you, as the Minister responsible for infrastructure, to the following question: Are you already and in what form and activities have you taken to the implementation of measures to mitigate the negative consequences? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u123	Time's up. I'm sorry. Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Gasperšič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Mr Ivan Prelog, as you have already noted, works on this section of the motorway as well as parallel state roads on the route from Drazenec to Gruškovje are underway. Given the annual experience in this section and the fact that there is still a construction site here this year, very difficult traffic with frequent congestion can be expected. As a result, a number of activities and coordination meetings were carried out on this subject prior to the start of this main tourist season within these competent institutions. In the domain of both road network operators, Darsa for the motorway network and the Slovenian Directorate for Infrastructure on the State Road Network, the police will, of course, be involved. Activities related to the effective communication of users, both in Slovenia and abroad, will also be strengthened. This will include again all relevant institutions, Dars, DRSI, the Transport Information Centre and the newly established national transport management centre, as well as other stakeholders. In addition, the Traffic Information Centre also informs road managers in neighbouring countries as well as car clubs, both our AMZS and foreign car clubs in Austria and Germany and Croatia about the situation and planned activities. For the purpose of informing the international public, it is also envisaged to produce a special leaflet on which alternative routes in the direction of Croatia will be marked in the event of delays in this section. All relevant operations will be shown in an image. The text will be prepared in both German and English. This leaflet will be distributed in all sales places abroad and also in Slovenia. Additional communication will also take place with the local population, both through media and information points in Podlohnnik, or the general public will also be informed via traffic information on the radio, Dars transport applications and, of course, also by the Transport Information Centre websites. In addition, the Austrian company Asfinag has agreed to show on the motorway portals in the Gradac area in the direction of Slovenia the current necessary traffic content or a warning of the delays in this section of Slivnica-Drazenci, with a view to making transit travel as far as possible on alternative routes. On the basis of the plan for the management of this international traffic flow, it will also explore the possibility of periodically redirecting to these alternative road links within Slovenia, both on the pomurski krak, i.e. via Lendava, or on the Styrian krak and then through Ljubljana forward to Croatia. Transport signalling on state roads will also be complemented, which is part of the management of the Directorate, which also provides for a number of measures to ensure the greatest possible flow of traffic during the period of increased tourism. As is clear from everything, we are aware that, despite all these measures, traffic congestion will not be avoided in the next three years in that area, but I would like to point out that the construction of this missing motorway and parallel state roads is necessary and will lead to a significant and significant improvement in traffic conditions in this section. So that some patience will be needed in order for this situation to be settled and then, within the envisaged three years of construction, it will be final so that traffic will run free from these obstacles and problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u125	Mr. Prelog, you want a refill? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the question of the Foreign Minister to Mr Karl Viktor Erjavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I see the minister's not, he probably thought he'd be later, like me, but whatever. In 2014, the United States of America and the EU imposed sanctions against the Russian Federation for resistance to East Ukraine and the accession of Crimea. The official explanation is that this is the answer to Russia's aggressive policy. We in the United Left do not believe the official explanation, because Majdan was not the first orange revolution to bring the United States into power by an extremely nationalist and neoliberalist force, in Ukraine directly oligarcha. Above all, nationalist, racist and even openly neo-Nazi movements in Ukraine promoted hatred among living minorities in Ukraine. The Ukrainian authorities do not allow any opposition, especially the left. However, opposition politicians have been rectified and put behind their backs. I can say that in Ukraine there is not democracy but an open authoritarian regime. The first orange revolution in Ukraine was in 2005. Yushchenko and Timoshenko lost power in the 2010 elections. Probably not because of your democratic leadership. Similarly, in 2003 he came into power and soon lost it, Sakashvili, who attacked Abkhazia, and so on and so on. In general, the characteristic of the countries that were once part of the Warsaw Pact or the Soviet Union is an intolerant internal policy and, above all, a dependence on NATO and the United States of America. Let us not forget that NATO has almost completely surrounded Russia by enlargement. Is that Russia's aggressive policy? The second reason for the opposition to sanctions is economic damage, which does not occur in the United States or England, but in Eastern Europe and, of course, in Russia, which has been affected by the fall in oil prices. The third reason is purely pragmatic, and you may understand that. The sanctions do not work, with sanctions you express support for the authorities in Kiev, Ukraine is obliged, under the Minsk agreement, to ensure the actual autonomy of Donbas, autonomous administration and independent security authorities. They take all sanctions as an alibi for not doing so. In the United Left all the time, we claim that your official position leads to a dead end. You say, first Minsk then lifting the sanctions. We say sanctions are an obstacle to the enforcement of Minsk. On your way, you will never achieve the normalization of Donbas or the lifting of sanctions. Therefore, I ask the distinguished minister: Under what conditions would they consent to the lifting of sanctions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u127	Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavec, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u128	Thank you so much for asking. Nice greetings to the chairman and to all Members and Members of the Assembly. Thank you for the question. As far as economic sanctions are concerned, this is one of the instruments used to force a particular country to act. Personally, I do not think that economic sanctions as an instrument are always effective, and in particular economic sanctions strike people in the first place, because they are essentially deprived of certain goods that they might otherwise acquire. With regard to the specific question of extending economic sanctions against the Russian Federation, I should say that these sanctions were imposed two years ago, this being said on 31 July 2014, due to the Russian Federation's participation in the Ukrainian crisis. You know that the Crimean Peninsula has been seized and that the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine have been threatened. On this basis, a so-called normandin format has been developed, involving the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Germany and France, where they want to find a political solution through mine agreements to address the Ukrainian crisis, which has in fact marked strongly the relations between the Russian Federation and the European Union in particular. I can say that economic sanctions have a certain effect. If we look at the trade in goods, we can see that this trade between the European Union and the Russian Federation has fallen by about 30%. It is similar with regard to trade between Slovenia and the Russian Federation, but the reasons are not exclusive only because of the imposition of economic sanctions, but also at the expense of lower oil prices. It is necessary to know that the Russian Federation is designing its budget on the basis of the projected price of oil and is also due to the devaluation of laundry. I would like to point out that the contracts concluded by Slovenian companies in the Russian Federation are normally concluded in rubles. And due to the lower value of laundry there is also a lower value of trade between Slovenia and the Russian Federation. With the conclusions of the European Council, we are somehow committed to assessing economic sanctions on the basis of the implementation of the mine agreement. You said something about that in your question. For example, one of the important points of the Minsk agreement is decentralisation, particularly in eastern Ukraine, I must say that these processes are taking place very slowly and inefficiently, as well as the withdrawal of heavy weapons and other matters relating to the implementation of the Minsk agreement. Here I can say that, for the time being, the assessment that this mine agreement is not being implemented in accordance with expectations, within the European Union, France and Germany have a significant impact on the relation to economic sanctions because they are members of this standard format, which actively participates in mine agreements. Most EU Member States will also be identified on the basis of an assessment by both France and Germany. With regard to a specific issue, if Slovenia is willing to support the partial lifting of economic sanctions, as the German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier has said, I can say that Slovenia has always advocated the need to find solutions in the context of political dialogue. It is true, however, that if economic sanctions have no effect on the ground, in terms of improving the situation, then these economic sanctions, of course, have not achieved their purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u129	Thank you, Minister Erjavec. Mr. Hanžek, would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, there's something you've said to me. But still, I'd like to add a few more things. It seems that each party is probably partly guilty that these mine agreements are not being implemented, so I think it should be phased out. I would also like to add a warning on the proposal. There are several types of sanctions. Sanctions against politicians from Russia and eastern Ukraine are irrelevant and we do not mind them staying. Sanctions against Russian state-owned companies and banks harm mainly employees and thus further sustain and support the ruling oligarchy, whatever it is, and of course harm people. For 50 years, when I observe various sanctions, I am not quite sure that any country has ever been obvious, if we look at the plague, is half a century, and because, you know, Russian missiles have come closer than 100 kilometers to the American state, it was almost a world war, and when Nato puts on the Russian border, they accuse the European Union and NATO that Russia is aggressive. I don't think that's working out for me. Third question, no business with companies in Crimea, including the export ban. These sanctions have no effect on Russia and harm the people of Crimea. By the way, I could also say why the European Union does not impose sanctions against Israel or remove the same imposition against the Palestinian areas occupied by Israel. I want to know: Are you prepared to support the countries mentioned above, Germany, Italy, France, which would partially open up?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u131	Minister Erjavec, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you, for the added question. I can say that Slovenia somehow has a similar view of relations with the Russian Federation as Germany, Italy, so with regard to these views, I think we belong to that group of countries that have a more flexible view of this issue. In particular, I would like to stress what has already been said that economic sanctions must certainly be respected if they are accepted. I would like to make it very clear that Slovenia respects economic sanctions, but it is true that they do not affect so much our economy, because these are economic sanctions, which are particularly aimed at high technology, at double-expenditure materials, that is to say civil and military use. The economic sanctions currently in force do not cause any special damage to the Slovenian economy, except for the lower value of laundry and tourism. It is necessary to know that until the imposition of economic sanctions, until the Ukrainian crisis in Slovenia, we have recorded a significant increase in Russian tourists all the time. At this point, however, we can see a slight decline, which is more due to the lower purchasing power due to the devaluation of laundry. Apparently, tourism is not competitive at this point in Slovenia. Otherwise, I could say that relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic or the Russian Federation are good, irrespective of the different positions we have with regard to Ukraine. Here I always point out to my Russian counterparts that Slovenia respects Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. I can say that I am going to Moscow today, where I will meet with Foreign Minister Sergei Lovrov tomorrow, where we will also discuss various military crises, the Ukrainian crisis, terrorism, migration. Of course, there will also be talks on Slovenia's position on economic sanctions. On Wednesday, however, I meet with the Minister of Telecommunications, Minister Nikiforov, where we will prepare everything necessary for the autumn meeting here in Slovenia, when the economic commission between Russia and Slovenia will be mixed again. We are working here for a balanced relationship, and in particular we want to continue with economic cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Hanzek, you wanted to proceed with a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I must admit that I am more satisfied with the minister's answers than I expected, but I still think we should clear some more things up. In particular, it may be that it is going to Russia and there is still some challenge in reporting these things to us, so I would like to ask what follows to discuss this issue at one of the next meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Hanzek. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday 14 June 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mrs Vojka Shergan, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will raise the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the end of the week a Slovenian tourist exchange took place in Catež ob Savi, which was a record visit this year, according to the Slovenian Tourist Organisation. It is encouraging to note that 87 new foreign travel organisers participated in the exchange. For the first time, 60% of foreign participants participated, including organisers from Taiwan, Saudi Arabia and Brazil. You were a tourism manager yourself, and you also participated in the stock exchange. That's why I'm asking you after your first impressions on travel organisers. Was the market at Catego also successful in terms of concrete contracts and contracts? We are ahead of this year's tourist season. Our tourist season last year was a record. What does the Slovenian season show this year? We're in the middle of the summer on the threshold of the summer season. The first data and indicators are probably already known. Does Slovenian tourism catch up with last year's numbers and perhaps even get ahead of them? Besides, I'm wondering: What is new about our tourism compared to last year? Finally, Slovenia is considered to be one of the safer countries, which is also of paramount importance for tourism, as well as awareness of the establishment of the WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u137	Minister Rest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u138	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. First, let me say that the Slovenian tourist exchange was very successful. This is the most important business event of Slovenian tourism. This event is also an excellent opportunity to present our country to important foreign travel organisers from around the world. There have been concrete deals on the stock exchange, and this is also the end of the market. However, two days after the event, I find it difficult to assess what its wider impact on sales will be. But I can certainly say that this impact will be important and positive. If I just give you an example. The representative of the travel agency of the United Arab Emirates could not hide the excitement of travelling through Slovenia. On a study trip organised by the Slovenian Tourism Organization before the stock exchange, he took a look at part of our country. Photos from visits to some Slovenian sights have been published on social networks and also on those where they market our tourist offer. His company thus included Slovenian sights in the sale and on the same day we received several reservations from this address. The tourist exchange itself brought together 181 representatives from 124 Slovenian tourist companies. There were 176 representatives from 137 foreign travel agencies and travel organisers coming from 39 different countries. The largest number of buyers came from Germany, the Russian Federation, Italy, the Czech Republic and Belgium. In the framework of meetings between representatives of Slovenian and foreign companies, more than 2 000 500 meetings were held. 64% of foreign companies participated for the first time. Among them are representatives, as you mentioned, Taiwan, Brazil and Saudi Arabia. Tourism is undoubtedly an extremely important economic sector for Slovenia. Creates 13% of GDP. Last year, Slovenia won a record of €2.2 billion with tourism due to a visit by foreign tourists, which is more than 9% good than in 2014. In the balance of payments of the Republic of Slovenia for 2015, travel represents 38% of all services exported and 7.5% of total exports in Slovenia last year of 38.5 billion, as a social product, over 31.5 billion in the form of this 2.2 billion. Last year, almost 4 million tourists visited Slovenia, 11.5% more than the year before, and over 10 million overnight stays were created. It's the first time we've gone with more than 10 million nights. And this is also 8% more than in 2014. Now we have reasons for optimism, we expect the main summer tourist season with optimism, although our tourism does not live from the summer tourist season, but is 12 months oriented. However, already in the first four months of this year we recorded a 10% increase in the total number of guests, which is a 7% increase in the night. We are particularly pleased to see the increase in the number of nights with the three traditionally most important markets for Slovenian tourism. This is Italy, Austria and Germany. The number of tourists from overseas markets is also growing, as is Asia and both America. In 2015 we again received a Slovenian tourism organisation and carried out its reorganisation in accordance with modern trends. We have carried out the most intensive promotion action or activity in the history of Slovenian tourism, financed by European funds of €3.7 million. For this year's year, the WTO has seen a substantial increase in funding for 2016 compared to the year 2015 by 106%. The funds will be devoted to the intensive promotion of Slovenian tourism abroad and will be targeted at the content digital marketing. Currently there is a global and digital campaign I FEEL SLOVENIA – Make New Memories, which raises the visibility and reputation of Slovenia abroad. The campaign started on 18 April 2016 in 13 key markets and will continue until November 2016. In the first month, it reached more than 7.3 million people worldwide in 30 million shows. At the Ministry, we are implementing important measures to increase the competitiveness of our tourism, to improve the business environment for our economy. Tourism, our important tourism activity remains also with the support of the calls for proposals that we are preparing and will be implemented [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u139	To supplement your answer, Mrs. Shergan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u140	Maybe we should just ask more questions. Do you think that because Slovenia is one of the safer countries, tourism will also see greater growth this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u141	Here you go, Minister. Your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thanks for the extra question. First, I have to say that the traffic we would make in tourism in an accident is otherwise good, but I don't want it. Secondly, what needs to be said is that in tourism, fear is inversely proportional to the price. Wherever something bad happens in tourism, things get picked up very quickly, and if we think about our events here, we've already forgotten that we had about a month, two, three back every day in the country over 10,000 refugees. Definitely in some sense, this problem, which occurs in the Mediterranean, will affect tourism flows, but we must play tourism for a longer period and expose our good qualities, have good service products, and I believe that we will have our main power in tourism, which is 12 months, to the fullest extent possible. Our offer is diversified on 4 pillars, if I say so, termes 12 months, mountains also year-round season, cities and coasts, which is the most important, but also ours not, seasonally oriented, and I believe that our goal will increase revenue from visiting foreign tourists to 3 billion from this year's 2.2 to 2021 with 6 to 8% annual growth attainable. I think that through promotion and systemic measures to promote the better competitiveness of the entire economy, including tourism, we have laid the groundwork for business tourists to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen a question. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The real estate market in Slovenia is in an extremely spasm. There is relatively little going on in this segment, and this is a segment that, in various areas, hampers development in various segments, hampers actual unemployment reduction, reduces the percentage of work, reduces end-of-life incomes in the state budget. It's a very important segment. Of course, developments in local communities are declining, and local community initiatives are also declining, following changes in spatial municipal plans, which are a condition for development both in the local community and in a broader sense as far as national importance is concerned. And in the fact that the Minister of Finance is looking at all segments of the new tax, there are also segments on this segment of how to find more taxation in real estate work or in changing the destination of land with all these changes. Today, I ask, Minister, you, because this is a pillar under your wing, otherwise the taxes are indeed under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, but this area is yours, for which I believe you are taking a strong stand, and I ask you: What about this planning of new taxes on land-use change, the so-called land rent, on the so-called flat-rate contribution, rather than introducing some new taxes on the real estate segment? I'd like to ask you for an answer, what's really going on here, what's already going on in this segment?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u145	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, thank you for the question. As part of the drafting of the new Law on Spatial Planning, two new ones have been included in the draft Law on Public Debate, according to our estimates, of the missing land policy instrument so far. So we can call them land rents and so-called compensatory contributions. With a bill proposing to allow this to be adopted now with a new law, we would like to establish mechanisms for the active management of building land. Or, if I say it again a little bit in my own way, we wanted to pay attention to this area. Indeed, the fact is that within the municipalities it is the most important segment of the land. This land is needed for spatial, economic and social development, but the way such land is built and has been in place for many years and is mainly through the so-called offer of urbanism or in spatial acts there is a change in the destination of land at the initiative of the owners. However, we want and I am sure that the mayors would also be much easier to manage the municipalities in the sense that the municipality has some financial resources available and that it will produce these initiatives first through the process of buying up the agricultural land and then through a change in the spatial act. As this is not the case and spatial acts change according to initiatives, the consequences are constant and long-term changes in spatial acts. Of course, at the moment, those who have adopted municipal spatial plans can change them, and all other congregations that have not yet reached this stage cannot. An incentive to change the act, if we can take a comparison of the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, 25 000 people, is just over a thousand 500 initiatives. So with this change, the introduction of the land rent and the compensatory contribution, we want the initiator to be the municipality itself, so that it has some financial resource and that it itself would be an incentive. However, it is of course a big question whether we will succeed through the adoption of legislation, and in any case it must claim that these are not new taxes, nor is this the idea of the Ministry of Finance, is more due to knowledge of this issue due to problems in the real estate market. It is one solution in which the idea of allowing municipalities to take control in a financial sense of the changes in the spatial acts introduced by the municipality was taken over. It is also a conflict in space, it is an invasion of flood and erosion areas with costly consequences, it is a problem with the installation of line infrastructure, the shrinking of agricultural areas, the conflict with nature, the grading of landscapes and so on. Moreover, such an approach, which is now in force, is also characterised by socialisation and related costs and the privatisation of profits. The fact is that the municipality has significant costs with the initiatives, as they need to be addressed and reviewed and supported professionally, often also by environmental assessment, coordinated with national and local space regulators and treated publicly, and of course no fees are collected by the municipality. That was our purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u147	Mr Ljubo Žnidar wishes to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u148	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer, but I must say that the bad practice of one congregation, as you stated, comes with a thousand 200 initiatives to change the destination of land, I would say that it is a very poor management of this congregation, but I don't know who the mayor is, and it doesn't matter, I would say, only the name of the congregation. To change legislation in the bad practice of a congregation that cannot manage its land and to prepare legislation, and on this basis we will draw up two new taxes! If I draw the line and the reputations, what will the new taxation now bring? It will bring a significant boost to the plots and will bring on the other hand the lack of parcels. These two, however, create a barrier to any further development, an obstacle to any possible new investment, new investors, both individual and economic, an obstacle to employment and so on. It is important to be aware of what a measure will bring and with what consequences it will leave its way forward. So this argument, I would say, has now given me a very clear answer that this is a very bad choice. It is necessary to change the way; I agree that it is the congregation that must give and care for its development. It is true, however, that we have an extremely long, extremely complicated and so forth in changing the spatial act of the congregation. Certain conditions are also good where we talk about the protection of agricultural land, but at the expense of taxes. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u149	Minister Irene Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u150	If these two measures are also introduced into the law, it will enable the work of the congregation to be reimbursed. However, the fact is that the change in the destination of land goes to the increase in the value of real estate, which is created only by the change itself. The funds collected would be used by the municipalities as earmarked resources, should be used to guide spatial development to areas where it is more appropriate through the other mechanisms of the law, to establish complexes of building land, to equip them municipally and then to make them available to the market at competitive prices. The very important side effect of the registered urban offer is the high prices of such established buildings, as it is a specific approach, which responds to demand at a time rather than providing adequate building funds at suitable locations at competitive prices ready for immediate use. The combination with other spatial management mechanisms should help both financial instruments to ensure that, after a long-term absence of more active land management and the resulting longevity of procedures, the non-competitive supply of building land and the non-economic treatment of space as a valuable resource, we reach a sustainable but competitive spatial development system. For this reason, we also consider it inappropriate to talk about new taxes, which are a non-purpose source, but about establishing land policy and moving from offered to anticipatory urbanism or regulating space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u151	Procedurally, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u152	Dear Minister, then, if I understand you correctly, the beneficiary of the new taxes in the field of land change is the municipality. Of course, then, I would say that the whole segment of the compensation that the municipality already receives is the compensation for the use of building land, compensation for the use of non-walled buildings and also in the proposal itself, which states that it is an essential difference whether the applicant is an individual owner or a candidate of the municipality. Of course, we have now, I would say, already created a certain manipulation site where a certain owner will agree with the congregation; yes, let the congregation be a candidate, because then there is no tax. We understand each other, don't we? This is where we saved 50% of this tax, and this is going to happen. So I would suggest that there be a public debate on this, because I see that the drafting of this law is on a rather misplaced basis and that such a bill is being drafted, I think, a broader economic damage. There will also be less business for the construction industry, but we know that construction is binding on almost 40% of the industry as a whole. But now, I would say, this segment of construction actually more or less with all the legislation, with all this government policy we have actually completely destroyed. By destroying construction when we take the business away from the construction industry, we must be aware that we have taken 40% of the whole industry for a certain piece of bread and business and jobs and so on — all that relates to this segment. I therefore propose that a public debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 14 June in the framework of the votes. The following is Mr Jožef Horvat, who will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Regional Development Programme shall be implemented by means of arrangements for the development of the region. The agreements represent a key implementing instrument for regional policy during the programming period, which is concluded by the Minister responsible for regional development for a period of four years under the Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development – you, Mr Restoršek – and the President of the Development Council of the region. The agreement for the development of the region of Pomurje in 2016-2019 includes three regional and two sectoral projects that are key to the development breakthrough and developmental specialisation of the region: the biosphere area of the river Mura, the upgrading of the water system B, Pomurje – a socially responsible region, the construction of the regional municipal infrastructure and the regional rescue centre. I am confident, Mr Minister, that these projects will make it possible to exploit the most important developments in the potentials and strengths of the region, remove key development obstacles in the region and implement regional development specialisation. The Pomur region, which has been most lagging behind in the development of the decade among all Slovenian statistical regions, is entitled to additional measures to promote the development of the region under the Development Support Act of the Pomur Region in the period 2010-2017, and therefore the conclusion of an agreement for the development of the region in Pomurje is of paramount importance. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: What will be the financial structure or financial resources of the State to finance the implementation of these projects in Pomur? In view of the lack of financial resources in the ministries, I also ask for an answer: What will be the dynamics in financing these projects that I have outlined? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u155	Minister Rest, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u156	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for the question. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology responsible for regional development, we are doing our utmost to reach decisions, for the first time at the earliest possible time, on which projects and at what level the ministries will be able to co-finance. We will endeavour to sign agreements for the development of the regions with all twelve presidents of the development councils of the regions as soon as possible. In doing so, I would like to point out that our ministry, in the 2014-2020 programming period, no longer has the European Cohesion Policy funds specifically provided for the financing of regional projects, as was the case in the 2007-2013 period. At that time, €620 million was made available for this purpose, and these funds were successfully absorbed. Our ministry must now seek and coordinate various resources for the proposed regional projects in several different ministries, those which are responsible for the content of individual projects, in order to ensure the co-financing of key regional projects at all. During the spring months of this year, we have mainly tried to convince individual ministries to identify regional projects as much as possible as important projects. We have, in our own words, made two rounds of negotiations with all ministries with the desire to be supported by ministries. We are currently counting on European cohesion policy funds, although we believe that only with European cohesion funds will we be able to solve the whole problem and that this issue remains open to us. However, the operational programme of the European Cohesion Policy makes it possible to co-finance projects of a much smaller nature. Such investment projects are largely proposed by the regions and therefore a large financial scale is proposed. Because of what I have just said, it is not expected that funds will be available to co-finance all proposed projects, where we are having a two-way discussion with the regions. It is said that in terms of the amount of these funds and in order to give greater weight to projects that are not purely infrastructure investment in terms of the possibility of using existing funds from European funds. What will be the financial design of projects, including those from the Pomur region of development, will depend on: for the first time, the content of projects, as I said, and on the possibility of co-financing by individual sources. We are just in the stage of the next round of dialogue with all regions. We focus mainly on the first three major projects for each region. At the beginning of this year or the end of last year, we have called on all regions to come up with three proposals after three regional projects from each end so that they can then be negotiated with the Ministry and then also financed. Representatives of the regions, MGRT, government development services and European cohesion policy and other substantively competent ministries, those relating to and associated with the proposal by the region, shall participate in the implementation of the territorial development dialogue. Coordination, as I have said, has been carried out now in the third round; we have coordinated with eight regions in the past week. We note that we will not be able to support all projects at the moment, at least not at the proposed level. Some projects will need to be adapted or coordinated with individual ministries. As I said, we are continuing the process of territorial development dialogue. Coordination was also held today with representatives of the Pomur region. I am informed that they have agreed on the content, but we have not concluded the dialogue and will continue it because we do not have coverage for all three proposals. These coordinations will bring in additional partial agreements on how it shows with the financial structures of individual projects and how it shows through funding sources and project co-financing dynamics. At this point, I can say that we have agreed on one project per region, we have a large portion of these other projects scheduled for the region, and we are missing another part of the funds that will not be able to be only European and I believe that we will be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u157	Complementary response, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer so far. I also thank you and your team for having a dialogue with the representatives of the region. I am also aware that today there have been coordination or negotiations. The Pomeranian Development Council was, in some ways, very rational. He only presented five projects that I had previously counted. I know that some regions have represented several projects, but given that there are no funds, it was very rational for Pomurje to be here. I am concerned that infrastructure projects will probably not be as much money in this multi-annual financial framework – and I know that they will not – as in the previous financial perspective, because if we look at, Mr Minister, the operational programme for the implementation of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, we also have a lot of so-called soft content, which means that we are simply running out of funds for infrastructure projects. I am most concerned that the project will not be completed with the pomurje water supply or the Pomurje water supply. Some or maybe most of the Slovenian public think that this project is complete and it is not yet far away. I am really worried about this and I am asking you very much for additional efforts to provide the means, but we will now soon have the right to drinking water in the constitution, which means, in my understanding, that any citizen will be able to come, if I may speak in a parable, before the state or before the government and will require drinking water. It would be a shame if this great cohesion project stayed halfway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u159	Minister Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you for this additional encouragement. I have to say again that at this point with some great certainty I can say that we have agreed after about one project per region, so that further efforts can be made to move forward in another part, but I think – and we will do everything we can – that we will have to find an additional effort for the third project within the framework of funds outside cohesion. For even if we were to allocate these funds perfectly, it would be difficult to close all these needs that are on the ground. Of course, it seems to me, however, that we will be a little easier – I cannot guarantee now, but nevertheless easier – to close projects in the field of environment and space, because at the end of the day we have the most points of contact between our ministry and their ministry, if we are talking about an agreement for the development of the regions. As I have already said, at our ministry, we will do our utmost to bring these negotiations to a relatively successful conclusion with regions that are difficult, just as with other ministries. But we are all under the impression of the previous perspective, when this was much easier, where we talked about infrastructure in the first place and where we had a very specific amount in a larger number than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u161	Mr. Joseph Horvath, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am taking advantage of this business opportunity and I propose to the National Assembly that we take a decision to discuss this content. Harmonised regional development in this country is practically not good for us, and this is no longer a criticism of this government, this is a criticism of all governments over the past 25 years. In fact, we have some statistical regions, including, of course, the Pomurska regions, which fall behind the average development of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank God, I speak of course for Pomurje, for us in particular, as far as unemployment is concerned, is being addressed by neighbouring Austria, but this is now another issue. Mr Minister, we know each other so much now, I know that you personally have a great affinity for coherent regional development. You spoke in response to my question that the problem of financial resources is also with other ministerial departments, so here, believe us, you have our support if there is a possible budget rebalancing. We in New Slovenia, probably all together, will support such a balance that will allow the financing or co-financing of the necessary regional projects. This and, of course, much more content comes before all of us, colleagues and colleagues when we are talking about coherent regional development. That is how I think this debate would be really good and here we sincerely think, in New Slovenia, that we offer the minister a hand so that he will somehow better meet the needs that are in virtually all regions. I therefore propose that this proposal, which I have now raised, also be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of Tuesday's vote. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will address the question to Culture Minister Anton Peršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister! As also responsible for monitoring and overseeing the implementation of the RTV Act, I ask you: How will you ensure his respect? Let me remind you that the operation and existence of RTV are influenced by all of us when we pay the bills. However, we are witnessing increasing public dissatisfaction with the operation of this public RTV house and calls for an end to compulsory payment. On this occasion, let me say that under the petition of the Slovenian Democratic Youth, in order to end the mandatory payment of the contribution of Radiotelevision Slovenia, in an extremely short time, it has given its signatures to thousands of citizens and citizens, and the number is still growing. It is not only money where they see the problem, but above all respect for and implementation of Article 4 of the RTV Act, in particular its 1st indent, and Article 5th. Both speak of respect for the principle of reality and integrity, respect for the principle of political balance and political independence, credibility and impartiality of information. Therefore, honourable ministers, I believe that this is a rather pressing issue, it is the functioning of the public RTV institution and the fact that the problems are great. I therefore ask you for a concrete answer: In what way will you pursue this area or ensure the realization of the legal, last but not least, of the constitutional, material? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Peršak, Minister of Culture, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u166	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! RTV Slovenia is, as you know, a special cultural national institution that performs public service in the field of radio and television activities aimed at satisfying the democratic, social and cultural needs of citizens and citizens, as well as of Slovenes and Slovenes worldwide, members of national minorities in Italy, Austria and Hungary and the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. Striving to meet all these needs is said to mean the need for objective and impartial information – such as the need to connect and understand between citizens and citizens of Slovenia – and the need to inform about the cultural and cultural content developments to audiences and viewers of RTV, which are committed to mediating and creating the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia as the largest not only informational but also cultural public institution in Slovenia, is therefore the mission and task of RTV Slovenia. Why this little general introduction? Because this public interest related to RTV also stems from the principle of autonomy of RTV and the direct non-interference of the State or policy in RTV. Accordingly, the RTV has a programming board that defines the starting point and adopts the RTV programme scheme and, of course, has a supervisory board or a board that is the supervisory authority of direct control of RTV. These principles, it is said, also based on the principle of autonomy, also give rise to an RTV funding system. This system is comparable, or it is a system that prevails in Europe, in the European Union countries, and is therefore likely to be the most appropriate on this side. Of course, it is understandable that many view this contribution to RTV as a particular burden, but this is, as I say, in principle the most coherent system with the nature of the public service, which, as has been said many times before, must not be a service of the state or any policy in the country. In addition to providing impartial and credible information and education, equal information to the public, in particular: ensuring the production of cultural programmes, in particular the main programme; ensuring that broadcasts reflect the life, problems of various population structures, resulting from RTV Slovenia based on the principle of equal information on events in all parts of Slovenia and substitution; ensuring and stopping documentary shows of national importance, which represent a document of past time and time in which we live; representing and promoting Slovenian culture; promoting cultural creativity; the freedom of artistic creation and creation; and the intervention of artistic works; ensuring the production and production of Slovenian and audiovisual works by independent producers. All this mention shows that this is a matter of public interest in the broadest sense of the word, not of any partial or special interest. Accordingly, of course, it is sometimes understandable that there is no particular interest in this generality and in the widest possible diversity, as well as in the diversity, that it is possible to see more vigour in any other medium in terms of its specific interests. But the public interest, as it is said, is primacy in this case, and according to our belief, is also funding and the principle of control, which is just as structured as it was said, and not as much as control, the exercise of control by specifically one ministry, guided by a certain policy at some point, but by the world, which is, however, supposed to be more plural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'm sure we've been very understanding each other, but you've either avoided the answer or you didn't want to be specific. Now I will ask you a different question; I did not ask when you would replace an editor or when you would, I don’t know, correct an article published on their portal. I asked you what you would do to make the law come true. And that's the problem. Well, this too; we often hear that individuals are independent, that they have a special status. You know, that's how we've heard about courts; independence or irresponsibility is a big difference, and all of the stakeholders we're talking about are responsible and committed to the law and the constitution. I asked — and we are the legislative branch of power — and it is also important whether or not an individual law is implemented and why it is not. You have also mentioned the programme council, we have just witnessed the changes and this is also a problem; it is even more so called the problem of impartiality. Let me tell you, there are individuals in it, if we listen to their comments, it can only be said: God have mercy. Then we have representatives of SD, Desus, SMC and so on, and the law stipulates that these are impartial. I don't know how the programming world is going to work and more; it is chaired by someone new who has said about a particular policy that he has to disappear from the scene and that he doesn't deserve another option at all. So it's also a new creator of some strange democracy or rather totalitarianism. In short, I'm asking you: What will you do to make this marriage a reality?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u170	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This programming world and, of course, the world are both designed in accordance with the law that is currently in force. I would not discuss whether this law is good or not, but of course I agree with you that it may not be optimal in all these details. I myself, perhaps you will remember, have talked about the need to ensure that the programming world, in no sense whatsoever, will be a political body or a politically determined body. Accordingly, the Ministry of Culture, and also in accordance with the National Programme for Culture, has embarked on the development of a new media strategy, which is currently under public scrutiny, public debate, the day after tomorrow will be the first day of public debate, and within this media strategy the principles of public interest are also how to ensure adequate autonomy in terms of policy – in particular in RTV – are further defined in the objectives. Our ambition is that in these controversial dimensions, the legislation that would follow this media strategy would change.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The answer, and what you mentioned, that there will also be a public debate, is that it is probably worth doing first in the National Assembly. The fact is that there is responsibility for autonomy in our possession and independence and impartiality, and whenever anyone says anything, they rise up, I'll say, everyone on their backs and say, we're autonomous and no one can interfere with us. However, I have been specific, I am asking about Articles 4 and 5 of the Act, which you have not previously quoted, but you are some others, but I do not think they are the problem. That is why I think it is good for us to hold a public debate in the National Assembly, because we are witnessing the continued rejection of the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mr Matic, who is literally rejecting the convening of meetings, although these references are clear and if they were problematic, we could not ask the questions sent today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A nice greeting to all present, a lovely greeting to the distinguished minister as well! I've raised a question in connection with flood safety. Given that we had a discussion on the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee, we also adopted a decision that stated that it recommended to the Ministry and the Government that it continue its activities to provide adequate funding for the implementation of the compulsory public service as soon as possible. With regard to this decision, I ask the Minister: What is happening at the Ministry of Environment and Space with regard to the decision taken and where are the commitments regarding the provision of additional funds for flood safety? In recent times, quite a few local extraordinary events have occurred, but it is increasingly evident that a serious commitment and approach is needed in this area. Currently, according to my data, the Annexes to the 2016 Annual Contracts are signed, which provide a total of €4.2 million to all concessionaires throughout Slovenia for the implementation of this public water regulation service, together with VAT. These are relatively small resources which, in view of the debate that was held on the Committee on the Environment and Space where concessionaires have found that they can only carry out some basic monitoring, basic repairs, maintenance of certain facilities, but cannot in any case improve flood safety or even perform some of the necessary maintenance works that they should perform in this package. Thus, these annexes do not follow the adopted and approved work programme for 2016, which has been planned and envisaged to provide €25 million for these public water management tasks. In view of the commitment we have made, we have also redrafted the decision on the committee in a way, it has also been much sharper, but it has remained in the domain to speed up the activities, so I ask the Minister: What activities are currently under way to enable these difficulties to be implemented in terms of both funding and actual flood measures under the programme?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec, honourable Member, thank you for the question. The Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as the Water Directorate within it, shall endeavour to provide sufficient financial resources for the implementation of the mandatory public water management service. We are both intensively looking for the possibility of redistribution of resources within the budget, both by the Directorate and by the Ministry. A detailed analysis of the planned implementation of the budget is being carried out and the unused resources will be redeployed primarily to the item for the implementation of the compulsory public service and to certain other items where there is also insufficient resources. In this way, we want to ensure this gap in the supply line for the public water management service. As you have already mentioned, honourable Member, in the current budget, EUR 4.2 million for 8 concessionaires is provided for the implementation of the compulsory public service, plus the cleaning of inland waters plus Sečovlje Soline, and if we take into account the resources for the implementation of the public economic service in the framework of the hydroelectric power plants in the lower Sava, these funds are carried out by Infra d. o. o., which is EUR 5.9 million. The financial resources currently provided for the economic public service provide for the operation of water infrastructure, monitoring of the situation, on-calls by the end of the year, which means that additional funds will be provided for the implementation of works on watercourses and coastal land. The first priority will be to carry out the cuts – in areas where ambrosia is, they have already started – and other maintenance work will be carried out according to the priorities. The Ministry is also working with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide these additional funds. However, with regard to the amount you are mentioning, i.e. the €25 million Action Programme, I would like to say that this year's programme to ensure the construction of HE Brežica, which also includes the anti-floating security of €73 million, means that we are beyond that value. I agree, however, that all the resources necessary for the construction of HE Brežica are not intended for total counter-flooding security, but part of it. And in terms of the construction of this buffer, which ensures anti-floating security, of course, the Government also fulfils this task this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Daniel Krivec, requesting a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I would also like to take a closer look at this action plan, and in the action plan endorsed by the Government, you, the Minister, together with the director and with the professional stakeholders, have prepared the plan, it has also been confirmed and discussed first on these intervention measures and later on clearly on the long-term measures. A set of these measures has been prepared by the Water Agency in cooperation with economic service providers and in consultation with other experts, where it has been stated that a proposal for comprehensive measures to reorganise the area of water management and reduce flood risk, etc., will also examine existing regulations and prepare a proposal for regulatory amendments to address unnecessary administrative obstacles to the installation of water infrastructure in the area, etc. Thus, this part was also envisaged in this action plan, it was adopted in November 2014, saying it will soon be more than two years. In this flood intervention document, the action plan, where there are also individual sets, short-term measures, is a set of three – long-term measures in flood risk management and water management in general, a set of systemic, organisational, normative and other measures. There is a set and under the first point it says: an increase in the regular maintenance of watercourses, water infrastructure and water and coastal land from the Circus 6 to 8 million, which we are talking about now – last year there were 8, this year it is supposed to be 6, so far it is 4.2 – every year at least EUR 25 million. This has nothing to do with flood safety at the power plants. I therefore ask for a comment on this action plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u180	I am sure that the honourable Member that we will remain on our shores of the watercourse because, when we were preparing the budget, we wanted concessions received by the municipalities to be granted – concessions from both hydropower plants and other concessions that are separated from municipalities from pumps, i.e. concessions – provide greater resources for the proper maintenance or management of watercourses. At that time, in terms of support for this measure, the vote of the municipalities which receive these concessions has been raised mainly because of their control over flood safety, watercourses are regulated, they are used for many other purposes, while the municipalities through which these same watercourses flow cause problems and cause floods, of course, are handicapped. To warn me what I didn't do in that sense, I think. That sometimes you have to ask yourself what we did to make it easier. [[…]] However, it is true that what you are now providing, so that it is not an issue of anti-floating security for HE Brežica, I admit, I will also use it in the next mayoral discussion, because Mayor Brežic is telling me something completely different. In this sense, I want to say that there is indeed a great deal of funding needed to ensure anti-flood security. We are preparing this year to adopt a water management plan, including a marine environment management package and a set of anti-floating measures, 61 areas are defined. Currently, all these projects are in the process of producing a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, so they will reach the government in the autumn. It is true, however, that if the municipalities were to agree on this use of concessions derived from water resources, a gradual recovery was envisaged, i.e. the withdrawal of these funds, it might be easier to talk about the provision of funds for the implementation of local public economic services regulated by watercourses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u182	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Minister's reply be discussed. I don't think the Minister knows this area very well. I didn't say it wasn't about ensuring flood safety at hydro power plants, but it wasn't part of regular maintenance, which is what the action plan is talking about. When you wrote the action plan, you knew exactly what projects are being built in Posavje and what source is being provided for these construction of hydropower plants and what part is involved for flood safety purposes, but you wrote in the Action Plan that it will be an increase in the means of regular maintenance. Flood safety in power plants is not part of regular maintenance, but investments are planned for several years in a row. But you spoke about the Action Plan on Regular Maintenance and the provision of additional funds, and this plan and action programme was confirmed by the Government, so we can talk about not complying with the Government's conclusions, as in the case of your predecessor, Mrs Bizjak Mlakareva, who did not comply with the Government's conclusions. This is also the government's conclusion. The Action Plan has approval and acceptance in the Government and does not speak generally of certain resources, but talks about means for regular maintenance of watercourses, water infrastructures, water and coastal land. It also discusses the activities to be undertaken in the area of legislative change and the reduction of administrative barriers to space placement. You just mentioned they're doing CPVO. Probably some CPVOs, which are required, are not needed for small hydroelectric power plants, and this is a major bureaucratic obstacle, which is not based on European regulations and is not yet regulated, but many things in this area. These decisions, which are written in the Action Plan, are not implemented at your Ministry. So about Posav power plants – don't get me mixed up anymore, I'm not saying it's not about flood safety, of course, it's about it, but it's part of investment investments. However, the Action Plan specifically discusses regular maintenance on the subject on which the Committee was also called. Because it's all the other areas. In your reply to the written question concerning the provision of funds, you also gave me the answer that the specific numbers will only be known in the second half of the year, when it will be possible to predict with greater certainty the realisation of individual items. Look, if we're going to do a rebalancing or if we're going to wait for the end of the year to say how much we've done to prevent flood safety, then we can really just pray that there's not going to be a flood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u183	Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počivalska, and the Minister for the Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u184	The Honourable Minister and the Honourable Minister! The National Assembly is currently in the process of writing into the Constitution the unequivocal right to water. In doing so, we want to completely prevent water from becoming marketed goods and its supply as a non-profit public service whose implementation is a direct duty of the State. The aim of the change is therefore to prevent any privatisation and commercialisation of drinking water supply and water supply from giving an absolute priority to all other uses. The proposed amendment of the Constitution has a lot of support among people and I am pleased that this great support is also here in the National Assembly and that it is possible to expect the entry of water into the Constitution in autumn. I would like to point out, however, that all these beautiful purposes could undermine the adoption of the Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union, known as CETA. The rights and obligations relating to water are also part of CETA. It is true that this agreement also recognises the importance of water, and we meet it on the 8th page of the thousands of 598 legally purified pages of the text of the agreement, in a specific section with only 3 paragraphs. Everything looks great at first sight. In paragraph 1, we read that water is not in its natural state and therefore only two chapters of the agreement apply to it. Paragraph 2 even states that nothing in CETI commits signatories to allow commercial use of water, but the devil usually hides in detail. And on almost a thousand 600 pages, we find these details enormously. We encounter an unpleasant surprise already in the 3rd paragraph of the water section, where it is stated that "as long as the signatories already allow commercial water use, all the provisions of the agreements apply to water, including the provisions on investment and the protection of those with the ICS regulations." In short, Slovenia has already granted a number of concessions for water supply and commercial use of water resources, for example, to foreign multinationals such as Heineken, the award of a concession for the extraction of natural resources is defined as an investment in the provisions of the CETA Agreement. In Slovenia, therefore, we already have commercialised use of water resources and the adoption of CETA would be subject to all the provisions of the agreement, including possible actions by so-called investors. This means that capital would quickly crash into the public interest of the priority supply of drinking water to the population, which we now want to put into the constitution. That's why I'm asking you: Has the Government examined the impact of CETA on the availability of natural resources, especially water? What impact would the adoption of CETA have on the already awarded concessions for commercial use of water resources and concessions granted for water supply to the population and waste water treatment? Ter How would the adoption of CETA affect and limit the implementation of planned constitutional changes giving priority to the supply of water to the population and giving care to the country or local communities directly? I thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Rest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u186	Mr President, Members, honourable Members, thank you for the question! Let me begin by stressing that the European Union always protects water management in all free trade agreements. In the framework of the CETA agreement, water is specifically protected under the introductory provisions, as you yourself have found. In particular, it is stated that water is a natural state, including water in lakes, rivers, water cover and so on. Water is therefore neither goods nor product. It is also established that each Party has the right to protect and preserve its natural water resources. The Agreement does not oblige the Contracting Parties to allow the market use of water for any purpose. In addition to the already mentioned European Union additional protection of water resources, additional protection for water resources is provided in the part of the investment services agreement, that part includes a provision that the EU continues to retain the right to take or maintain any measures relating to the collection, purification and distribution of water to households, industry, commercial or other users, including the provision of drinking water and water management. Therefore, the CETA Agreement will not alter in any way the existing arrangements in Slovenia or limit the further regulation of this area in which the State grants the right to use water either by means of a water permit granted, for example, for the supply of drinking water, or concessions granted for the production of beverages, baths with thermal water and the like. In doing so, I would like to point out that this arrangement does not mean the privatisation of water resources, but management of water resources is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which can provide more information on the regulation itself in this area. The last protector we have, however, is still the understanding of all European members that CETA will ratify all 28 parliaments, as well as ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you for the question, distinguished Mrs Violeta Tomić! The importance of protection of water resources is embedded in European environmental legislation both at the level of fundamental principles, at the level of primary European Union legislation. This area is also specifically regulated by the Water Directive which Slovenia has transposed into its legal order. It is true that Article 74 of the Constitution now protects natural resources, including water. It is true, however, that this amendment of the record has set for drinking water, which is being prepared as Article 74a of the Constitution, and our Ministry also supports it. The Water Directive specifically requires specific measures for water protection, namely that each use of water must be subject to authorisation, the use of water must be subject to the reimbursement of user burden costs and the use of water must not lead to poor water conditions relating to quantities of water. In domestic legislation, the protection of natural resources is guaranteed, as I have already said, at constitutional level, but it has specifically set out something in the Water Act, namely, water as a natural water public good, general water use is ensured, in particular the use of water or marine goods for drinking, bathing, diving, skating or other personal needs, and on water, i.e. on water, cannot be acquired and managed exclusively by the State. It is true, however, that the Water Act now defines that in an area with a larger concessionaire, greater water users should the water source provided for the provision of drinking water to the inhabitants have an absolute advantage over other users. Maybe there's something else next. Most of all, I have to say more domestically, this water theme is quite difficult, it is rich in water, even in all processes we have done a lot of things, and something still needs to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u190	Dear Minister! I am not satisfied with your answers, because in the third paragraph of the section on water, I repeat, it is stated that, as long as the signatories are already allowing commercial water use, all the provisions of the agreement apply to water, including the provisions of the section on investments and the protection of those with the ICS arbitration mechanism. 80% of all the best water sources are sold. But justice is foreshadowed and enormous. Indeed, Minister, Slovenia is rich in water, but these multinationals are exhausting our groundwater and it is not as it was when our concessionaries were limited. Believe me, the United Arab Emirates, which have received concessions on Costella, says Ardeya Global, are exhausting much more than Slovenia could ever have exhausted. Also Heineken, Donat Mg, who owns the Croatian Atlantic Group. In short, it is even worse in the area of water extraction and purification. We were completely indistinguishable precisely because we had thus a watery land, some warnings, such as the multinational Degremont, experienced a great upheaval in New Delhi 15 years ago when they privatized water supply. This is the same co-owner of a cleaning plant in Maribor. After the multinational Suez, there was an affair with a 300% rise in the prices of water in Thessaloniki and now in Maribor they pay above average high water-cleaning bills. In Kranjska Gora, in Bled, in Šentjerne, Laškem is paid to WTE Wassertechnik, which is part of the multinational EVN. In short, one example of this ICS mechanism that due to the superficially written concession contract the Municipality of Laško has to pay this multinational €3.7 million fine, that is one [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Zdravko Rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u192	I can only say once again that there are two things you have been talking about: CETA and the impact on the management of our water resources. The CETA has not been ratified. If any of this were dangerous, as you said, I think we have a lot of security. However, I believe that we do not have any levers in this Agreement with CETA with which matters will take place in the direction you have referred to them. However, I do not believe that the influence of multinationals in co-ownership on the price is one or the other that it has influenced the high price. They are still, however, in minority proportions. However, we have all the leverage to do so, and the Minister can say more about it that the quantities recorded in the concession contracts are respected. In short, I believe that our country has all the levers in its hands and that it will also have them to manage water resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Minister Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you. I have already said, and I repeat, the water for drinking water is particularly protected by the Water Act, namely, the explicit advantage of using water to supply drinking water from other water uses. For the use of drinking water supplied as an economic public service, a water permit may be obtained exclusively by the municipality or by the State. This means that water rights may also be withdrawn if acts relating to the purpose, scope and conditions of use of waters are infringed if they are not paid for water rights and in other cases of infringement. Otherwise, I would say that your data, the amount of water that companies draw for distribution, is completely incorrect. This is a very small share; most water permits are supplied to the congregations for drinking water supply. And then when you talk about how in Maribor, in Bled and elsewhere, the drainage and cleaning of waste water are done by concessionaries who have been selected by the congregations, of course, on water resources or on what you first ask as a question, that is, water resources, it has no effect. But the fact is, Slovenians need to be careful about this wealth, that is, on the water, even in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u196	Minister, unlike you, I think that water is water and that the connection between the groundwater and the water we drink is very intense and that we have to worry about all this. In short, the ICS mechanism is already working. Multinationals already own 80% of our water resources and we pay them penalties. So: What are we going to change when we put water as a right into the Constitution? Probably nothing. The arguments why the adoption of CETA is contrary to the interests of the people of Europe and Slovenia are enormous, as what is currently happening in Estonia will start to happen across Europe. The State of Estonia is being sued by a private investor providing water supplies. Why? Because Estonia has not allowed the price of water supply to rise and therefore requires as much as €90 million. It is also unclear whether it will be possible for the Republic of Slovenia to be able not to grant new concessions or not to extend existing concessions. Such a measure may also be considered discriminatory by the investor and may trigger a dispute under the auspices of the ICS. I think this is a very important area and it is very crucial for the future of all the people of Slovenia, so I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this topic and your answers be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Madam Members, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mag. Anže Logar will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u198	Thank you, Chairman. The individual business or personnel decision of the Slovenian state holding company does not go away, which arouses in the public either amazement or disgust, or surprise. If I am not mistaken, the government in the coalition contract has committed itself to a coherent corporate governance of state property, which is 14 billion of our assets, the last valuable part of our economy, which has remained in our hands and is somehow managed indirectly by the state. The story began with a night meeting of SDH supervisors, which set up such a leadership of SDH as it has set up, but the original fault or the original culprit for such an event is of course the Government. I do not think the Government can escape this responsibility; that is, remember, the SDH supervisors were appointed by the DZ on a proposal from the Government, on the proposal of the Minister of Finance. In human resources solutions, which later condition all human resources solutions and business definitions, we cannot pass the appointment of the SDH Prime Minister. Among other things, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which in the interim opinion it issued at the beginning of May this year, also stumbled, wrote down, quote, "... The SDH Supervisory Board did not take into account the fact that the selected candidate was a member of the NLB administration at a time when the Commission found systemic anomalies and contradictions in the treatment and treatment of bank investments in Slovenia and the former Yugoslavia. The specific investigation procedure conducted by the Commission was also informed by the former NLB Supervisory Board, in which the SDH Supervisory Board could verify that the conduct of the selected candidate has been completed." In short, at the head of SDH we have a president who, when he was the Chairman of the New Ljubljana Bank credit committee himself, appointed or approved EUR 750 million of credits that are today at the Banks Claims Management Company. I therefore ask the Minister, who in some way made it possible to appoint: How does SDH comment on SDH's human resources decisions and on SDH's recent business decisions in line with the new moral and ethical standards and excellent corporate governance with which the Government has committed itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dushan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The staffing of SDH is clearly more than one of the hottest in the debates of the National Assembly, and as far as I know, not only in this mandate. A number of oral and written questions have been raised in this mandate, and several meetings of the Commission on Public Finance Control, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have already been held, including two extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly in November 2015 and March 2016. In addition, the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members has also tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Slovenian State Holding Act, which, inter alia, has a strong impact on recruitment. This proposal has already been discussed by the National Assembly, in which staffing has also been exposed. Prior to the proposal for a law, the Government made a written identification before the general discussion and rightly pointed out that it was not suitable for further consideration. Nevertheless, you Members and Members of Parliament, with 77 votes in favour and 0 against, have concluded that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. This will continue next week in the National Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and I must remind you in particular that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, has also endorsed the Government's opinion and has warned that the proposals are incompatible with the concept of law and the constitutional principle of the rule of law, that they unduly interfere with the free movement of capital and the freedom of establishment under the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, that they are not feasible and that they do not achieve the purpose of the bill. In all these discussions, the government has provided both written replies and justifications and oral explanations at the meetings themselves, but they have been repeatedly ignored and over-examined, so allow me to explain to you again the concept of corporate governance of state-owned companies as prescribed by the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is based on the OECD guidelines and good practice, and we have committed ourselves to this when we join the OECD. One of the main purposes of the SDH Act is to separate the function of the State as owner from other functions of the State or to separate the policy from management. Neither the Government nor the National Assembly should therefore interfere with the day-to-day management of state-owned companies, which includes staffing. This ensures the principle of independence, which provides that SDH and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of national authorities or third parties, but must act independently and independently when performing their tasks in accordance with the law. Exceptions are provisions on mandatory compliance with the objectives set out in the strategy and other management acts and any provisions of the specific legislation applicable to individual investments. In this context, the Government also acts as SDH Assembly, and SDH, on the other hand, must implement all those acts in accordance with the principles of due diligence, cost-effectiveness and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mag. Ange Logar, please, you're requesting a complete response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you, Chairman. Of course I didn't get the answer. The Minister devoted half the time to past events related to this topic, which were held here and half the time to explain again some of the rules which, in fact, the Government itself does not adhere to. Look, it's a shame about the appointment of supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank. I didn't hear the minister give a moral-ethic compass after such a failed story. Then we have a, I don't know, appointment at the beginning of this year of Prime Minister Naft Lendava. Look, I still don't know who Mr. Borut Bizjak is who took over this company. Is this the Borut Bizjak who led the Probank business unit in Maribor? I don't know, I asked the Minister of Biography of this new director, and it was the Minister's answer that he didn't give this information because it was a question of SDH, given that it was state property. And now we have this shame that SDH is doing to the Minister or First Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government. The president of the government comes to visit Luka Koper and says we're not changing anyone. In four days, he finds out or the next day he finds out in the media that they're actually going to change. I don't know how this government feels that it's in a saddle and that it's a government, if she doesn't even know the data she's supposed to have. For example, if we look at this fundamental principle, when the Minister has now mentioned the separation of policy from governance. Neither the DZ nor the Government shall interfere with the work of SDH. Then why don't you count your Secretary of State Dragonjo? Look at this word: "The privatisation of the NLB is in a hurry, very fast." Expressed in early June, he intervened directly in the work of SDH. Did you call Mr Draganjo to account, ask him, did you tell him not to get involved in SDH's business?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Colleagues, there's Mr. Beno and his colleagues, please, if [[…]] Here you go, Dr. Dushan Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u204	I would like to add nothing more than that the Government or at least the Ministry of Finance, which then also proposes to the Government, does not want to interfere with decisions on the management of those companies owned or managed by SDH, and will strictly adhere to these OECD guidelines, because we strictly adhere to policy separation from government management. This is the whole meaning of the strategy, the whole meaning of the SDH Act, the whole meaning of this system, as we have set it, what the Government sets out, these are objectives, criteria and so on, and after assessing whether or not these objectives have been achieved successfully or unsuccessfully. This NLB is part of the strategy and the strategy is also set out and the strategy is adopted on a proposal from SDH, takes it to the Government, say the Ministry of Finance, and then confirms it, and in this context opinions can also be expressed on certain privatisation procedures that form part of the strategy. But the Ministry of Finance will not say or intervene in the management and determination of personnel, and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Ange Logar, you have a procedural procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you. If I have understood the Minister correctly, that is, given that this is Dragonya, it can be advertised and evaluated, but given that this is the case for the National Assembly, we must not interfere with this business policy. See, given that the Minister has said that the purpose of the Government is, after the Assembly and also in some way, to assess whether these objectives have been achieved by the Minister, and I think that there is a need for a broader debate that the Minister will be able to assess whether these objectives have been achieved in the case of Paloma, whether the SDH objectives and ultimately the Assembly have been achieved, to assess whether the procedures relating to the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank can be achieved, if, for example, Luka Koper has achieved her objectives in other areas, if those objectives have been achieved and if they have been achieved, why we are then changing and so on, that the Minister will have the opportunity to explain this to us, Members and ultimately to the taxpayer, how the SDH has justified this existence and these objectives. And then I believe that these questions, which concern a particular subject, will be less, because the Minister will be able to explain them. I therefore propose that we hold a broader debate on this in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mrs Janja Slug will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the area of social economy in Europe is growing in importance, i.e. the awareness that this sector can, even though it is not primarily focused on making profits, contribute significantly to the creation of new jobs at specific levels of economic and social activity. In addition, social innovations are a challenge and a response to those already existing companies that could in many ways follow the example of social enterprises. Social entrepreneurship strengthens social solidarity and is an important source of innovation, responsibility for the society in which we work and cooperation. In Slovenia we have a number of exceptional social enterprises, already in the record there are over 140 who deserve the help and obedience of the Government. I know that one of the main objectives of your mandate is to support social enterprises in Slovenia, so I ask you: What measures have you already taken in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u210	Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members! In a coalition contract, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has defined the area of social entrepreneurship, society and economic democracy as one of the strategic areas of this government. In the framework of the government strategic project number 9 has identified key areas for the implementation of this project. The area has been placed in the operational programme of the European Cohesion Policy, thus ensuring an adequate level of resources to support the various forms of cooperatives and social enterprises and their support environment. Special attention is also paid to the area of social innovation in the Smart Specialisation Strategy. The Social Entrepreneurship Act is just before intervention in inter-sectoral treatment, and the law has already been in public consultation and in coordination with the social partners. We are also planning to amend the Societies Act, in which I do not intend to modify its contents, because it is good and works well in practice, we will only add some modern forms of cooperatives, consumer, supplier and so on. The Labour Buyout Act is also in preparation, and we will define the process of establishing a work cooperative and a financial mechanism that can be developed at national level as a tool for working buys. We are thinking intensively about measures to promote the ownership of employees in companies, as well as high-tech companies such as Dewesoft, because they are increasingly deciding on the purchases of the company by employees. On 3 June, we launched a €1.9 million call for social enterprises, a financial measure to encourage social enterprises, of which €1.4 million is for cooperatives or social enterprises. We support youth cooperatives in a special set of € half million, which are particularly important for young people who cannot work immediately after completion of the study, and it is true to support entry into the labour market. The first call for support from various types of cooperatives. In preparation, a call for regional social enterprise support networks is worth €800 000. With this call, we will co-finance 12 regional networks of €0.6 million and one national youth network, a support environment of €0.2 million. This call is expected to be published by the end of June. The call for mentoring schemes, which will be linked to regional networks of support environments, also provides for a €1.9 million tender and is expected to be published at the end of June. In support of international activities, however, a call for transnationality will also be issued in July 16, and we will help our companies to find partners in the European Union countries within this call. 13 European Union countries participate in this instrument and the amount of funds available is €100,000. There's something else about non-financial measures. With the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, we underlined the importance of social enterprises in the article dealing with reserved procurement, thus allowing them to obtain contracts more easily from municipalities and other public institutions. We are also planning to expand the activity under the European Directive on services of general economic interest, which extends the scope of the provision of certain public services in the form of concessions to cooperatives. We are pursuing the objectives of the so-called deinstitutionalisation, which means transferring the delivery of certain public services to cooperatives and to social enterprises. This could result in a lower burden on the State on public sector expenditure, resulting in a lower burden on businesses. Because companies make the most of their taxes on the state budget, this is another additional measure to increase the competitiveness of the whole country. Let me finish with the comparison. In the European Union social entrepreneurship, socially responsible entrepreneurship generates up to 8% of gross social product, in Slovenia at the moment only 1%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja the Servant. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u212	Dear Minister Klemenčič, I would like to ask you a question regarding the measures you have put in place as Minister of Justice in connection with the speedy resolution of judicial disputes. The fact is that international research shows that Slovenia is significantly different from the rest of the European Union in this segment, namely that economic disputes in Slovenia are being resolved significantly slower than in other countries of the European Union. Somehow, on average, this lasts more than a thousand days. I want to know: What measures have you, as Minister of the current, almost two-year mandate, or the Ministry of Justice, taken so far to make this segment of the resolution of judicial disputes more rapid? The fact is that, due to the slow resolution of economic disputes, the economy suffers mainly and that a number of foreign companies, foreign investors do not decide to come to Slovenia and some foreign corporations have already decided to move their headquarters from Slovenia to neighbouring Croatia. It is also true that Slovenian justice has problems with the enforcement of judicial decisions, as the European Commission has already pointed out. If you can say as follows: What measures have already been taken in this area, or are you or your ministry preparing any additional measures in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Member, other Members and Members of Parliament! I'll start with that. I share your concern that the speed and efficiency of the resolution of economic, legal disputes is also closely linked to foreign investments and the legal security of foreign investments in the Republic of Slovenia. In your own question, we are also reminded of this by international studies and indicators. Now I don't know what you're thinking. The fact is, even though progress is not sufficient in my opinion, it is obvious. So we will say that the most relevant Justice Scoreboard study, a study by the European Commission as a study by the World Bank in recent years, especially in the last two years, in the field of the functioning of justice, has seen concrete and measurable progress, even so far as in the latest report, the 2016 report, in the area of economic disputes and insolvency disputes, the World Bank has written that Slovenia has made so-called significant progress. This does not mean that the situation is satisfactory. In the past year, last year, I do not know how you voted on your own, we have made it possible to amend the Law on Courts, in particular the different allocation of district and district judges, so that the burden would be as uniform as possible. This has been in practice throughout the last year since the law was in force. Even so, in the area of economic disputes, some courts have achieved quite good results through the so-called triage. But so, very briefly: if we are to make further improvements in this area, we need a holistic approach in three areas. First of all, it's a change in procedural legislation – as people say, according to their own words. Secondly, more efficient organisation, and thirdly, greater accountability and transparency of the judiciary for possible errors. Of course, we have not accepted anything yet in the first part, but we are just ahead of sending through the Government a change to the Law of Justice. We couldn't do it overnight, even though we did it last year. It is one of the key procedural laws and amendments that are in preparation – and, as I stand here, we will see them this year, I hope that, in the National Assembly – they leave the concentration of procedures with the re-introduction of the pre-trial order, they represent a faster decision on the appeal, as the court fee will no longer be a presumption of appeal, a restriction on the possibility that the appeal can be annulled and returned to the court, and the introduction of supervisory mechanisms to prevent unjustified annulments of judgments and a return to the first stage. In short, we've done it this way. We want to change the procedural legislation, then organise the courts, which is very important in that the courts in Slovenia are very unevenly burdened. I think that this year you will be given Parliament's amendment to the Courts Act, which will introduce a single trial court. However, I have already announced reform or optimisation of the judicial network, which, of course, will not be easy, because regardless of the political colour, at a time when in a municipality where there is, for example, a district court with one or two judges or judges, will begin, according to domestically, to screw down the court board, the whole problem will begin. If I draw the line, I am not satisfied with how fast economic conflicts are resolved in Slovenia, and I am fully aware of how close this is to the competitiveness of the Slovenian country and the economy as a whole. However, I cannot help but overlook the fact that both the European Commission and the World Bank, as well as the IMF, have seen that major steps have been taken in this area in recent years and that the trend is positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u216	Dear Minister, you have not given any such concrete measures to help resolve this faster economic dispute, and I have been waiting for you in this introductory part of the question and I would now like to ask you for a comment. The case of the Polish fund Abris, which withdrew from the contract relating to the recapitalisation of Paloma, was the reason for the long-term proceedings relating to the action of small shareholders. This means that the Polish fund has withdrawn from a contract which should recapitalise the company with EUR 15 million, and I am sure that these procedures, which have lasted for a substantial long time, have endangered 700 jobs in the Sweet Top and Paloma. What measures will you take to court in Maribor as Minister of Justice? Are you going to be any - given that this was a lawsuit against a small shareholder or a number of associations and that we can only talk about procedural actions at the assemblies and that it was not necessary for the court here to determine substantively, but only whether the record was well prepared or not? All the experts said it would take a maximum of one month for a normal court to do so. In Maribor, the economic department was unable to decide on this for more than half a year. This cost Paloma 15 million euros and puts 700 employees at stake. I want to know: What is your comment on this particular case? What measures will you then initiate as Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much, again, for your word. First of all, you said in your initial implementation that I did not make any concrete action. I really don't know what else I can do except tell you that we're going to change the key law, that we're already working on it, and that you're going to get it here in the fall, and that we're working on a new court network. These are very concrete measures, this is not so, something through the window, these are very concrete measures. As far as Paloma's concerned. If I knew you'd ask me about it, I could answer you in more detail and I'm prepared in writing. As soon as I noticed Paloma’s problem in the media, I asked the competent services at the Ministry to contact the court in Maribor. I am now speaking in part of my mind; that is, we have requested further clarifications within our legal powers and we have also received them from the competent Court of First Instance and from the higher court. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm just saying that it's been a decision for more than a half a year. It's been a decision in time frame 3 to 4 months. As far as I can understand from these reports, it is difficult, even though it has been so presented in the media, and by you at all, that in fact, some long-term decision was costing, according to domestically, so many and so many people of their services, on the basis of what has been read, on the basis of the supervision that we have done, cannot be traced. In fact, what is further needed here – it was not as you presented, for a simple decision of one, a provisional order was given, and then a substantive decision and the Slovenian situation was decided relatively quickly; even for the European situation, if we are already in the process. Then why is there a feeling or a spin in the media and in politics that this is the responsibility of the court, I don't know. There's probably other backgrounds here. However, I am absolutely, and as I declare here, ready to give or convey as a Member, because you have the right to do so, the whole report that I have received from the Court of Maribor on this matter. In this case, it was decided relatively quickly and absolutely as a justice minister, who is often critical to justice, I cannot agree that the privatisation of Paloma fell because the court ruled on a case for, say, three or four months. The backgrounds are obviously somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u220	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request that public debate be held on the subject of quicker settlement of judicial disputes. I am convinced that this should be in the interest of the entire National Assembly, including you as Minister of Justice in view of what you have said, you are somehow sharing an opinion with me that these disputes, particularly in the economy, are not being resolved quickly enough and that certain measures should be taken. I really hope that in this law that you are preparing, that you have talked about, that it will come to the National Assembly as soon as possible and that this law will have the leverage to allow for a speedy resolution of these disputes. As regards Paloma, the fact is that the Polish Fund has also made a statement to the media that it has resigned primarily from this Treaty and recapitalisation in respect of 15 million due to long-term settlement of judicial disputes. We know that when the contract was signed, they put some time into the contract itself, until these matters need to be resolved, that was on 27 May of this year. But the fact is, if you put yourself in the light of some fund, that it has 15 million euros ready for one investment, then it waits for the court to decide in what way this is a little bit unrealistic. At least in my opinion, given that this is a challenge brought by the Assembly, we all know that this is more than a process case by the GAG and that a small shareholder cannot challenge the vote made with 99% of the shareholders' support. Not substantively, but mainly procedurally, and to spend months on it, I don't think it's right. The second case to be cited here is in relation to a court dispute between T2 and DUTB; it took the customs court two years to decide whether the claims were secured or not. During these two years, the distinguished minister, the court of T2 has already sent the court three times to bankruptcy. Who here will take responsibility for the employees, for the owners of the company, for the users of the services? Unsecured claims amounting to 120 million are also likely to be one of the key parts of this DUTB bankruptcy procedure. But I'd really like a distinguished minister, as you yourself have suggested, if you'll send me this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I think you have come to the public several times with so-called tax reforms, whether they are mini tax reforms or max tax reforms, and I wouldn't even speak because this is where the media use this term in particular. Personally, I think that these are some of the corrections that you have already announced when you became a Minister at the hearing, but they are going in the direction that, above all, the more productive ones, those who create more added value have become more burdensome and thus should become more competitive for businesses. In these recent changes, you have announced a revised income scale. You have also announced a different tax or a lower tax of 13. salary or regression, whether already or Christmases, and on the other hand an increase in corporate income tax, is also announced in the new Real Estate Tax Act, 2018, 2019 and so on. This is the second time. I want to know: Minister, are you serious here? Do you really mean by these changes in tax legislation that have very different effects both on net wages and on the other hand labour costs and on the third hand increased taxation of corporate income taxes? Do you really think this will lead to greater competitiveness? Do you think that these measures will actually encourage businesses to produce more, to be more competitive and so on? I am talking about what you presented; what the Ministry has presented and actually put on the website. Of course, this minimal change in the income scale and, on the other hand, the increase in corporate income taxes, which is essentially from the left to the right pocket, can be said, however. See, with these problems that we have with income, even those that have not found work in Slovenia and have gone to Austria, for example, to do what this income actually beats. Well, there's nothing going on here. Nothing's been done for a long time. I want to know: Will there be any other tax measures in the financial field or not, and is that all? Will these tax measures ever see the light of the world?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dr. Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you. First question: Do I mean it? I'm serious. What I said at the hearing before the Committee on Finance, I also think now and again about the tax burden on that part of the income where we know that we have tax non-competitiveness. That's, say, over 1.6 times the average wage. If we compare this with countries that are our direct competitors, say Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, we see that up to 1.6 times the average wage, our work is taxed even slightly lower than in these countries, and then it starts to grow very steeply. This is what I pointed out at the hearing at the time, and we started with activities last year, as you know, which are supposed to fix it in the given public financial frameworks, but which are extremely unfavourable for us until we have a structurally balanced budget. This is a completely different situation, such as the situation in Austria, where the structural deficit 0 – last year they had a 0 – and then they went to tax restructuring, relatively large, which is mostly restructuring, and there is no relief. In the first phase, we tried to look at how to relieve it in order to make it as effective as possible. As you know, the economy rejected that proposal last year, where we had the proposal to increase effective taxation of profits by reducing tax reliefs and, on the other hand, letting businesses decide how they will burden those most important to development and growth. This was rejected in the economy, mainly because they did not agree that tax reliefs do not have a particular impact on their competitiveness and, as a result, through research, they also show that they also see GDP. So we decided to withdraw this and we said – in February we started, several circles through economists, where the first question was the key question: Does tax restructuring – what you said from left pocket to right – bring you higher competitiveness? This was the first question that we have asked all employers' organisations and directors of the largest companies in Slovenia. Their answer was yes. They are prepared for a higher profit tax if, at the same time, they are actually well targeted for those who are key in the company and are burdened. If we don't get that answer, and we have the answer, we actually have records of all the meetings we've held. From these records follows clearly and also follows clearly from their public statements that the answer was 'yes'. And then, of course, there was another question, if yes, how should this be done to make this effect as much as possible. We had extremely many interviews, we were looking for a formula that would satisfy the widest possible part of the economy; of course, by targeting the most important part of the economy in Slovenia, which has the greatest perspective. When we finished all these interviews, we came up with this structure, which you have explained yourself, a change in the income scale, where those two-and-a-half-and-a-half percent gain the most. Their greatest burden falls between two and a half and three and that should be about 55 million. The second part relates to this pay for success, about 45 million, as you said about the Christmas tree, the regression, or 13th salary, which is supposed to be burdened. In fact, we have closed three rounds of this debate. I must say that I have been extremely negatively surprised, after all these discussions, by their public statements, that some in the economy feel that this is not useful at present. When the first question was whether it was beneficial; and they all answered that it was beneficial in this direction. Of course, everyone wants more, which is not possible in these public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, do you request a follow-up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for that part of the answer. Why am I asking if you're serious? Because I see, I read, I hear that employers are against – or I don't know what they told you – and on the other hand that the unions are against. But here we have the statements of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, we have the statements of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and both have rejected the mini tax change to say so; because these are really mini tax changes, we do not need to talk about reforms. Reform means you clean something up, you actually shut something down, and then you start doing it again; this is about change. And on the other hand, there are employees, unions against. They say that you are not burdening those who are here with the most productive, with the highest added value, but that this applies exclusively to managers and so on. And that's why I asked if you were going to continue thinking of anything else. You have here a very large number of measures that are possible and which also give you a possibility of a greater burden. You have opportunities in the area of relief, in the area of exemptions, many proposals that are possible here. And that is why I ask whether, while employers and employees say no to you, you will continue to do so because we know that the social partners are dealing with these matters. According to some information, they didn't even come to the meeting when you discussed it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u228	To be clear, the aim of these changes is to relieve labour costs; this is not only the direction of Slovenia, but the direction in the European Union where we are uncompetitive. That's the point. And as is clear, we are uncompetitive in the most productive personnel, this must be addressed. The second thing is a fiscal framework, which is a constraint. Simplifications and so on are, of course, not in these tax principles like those things that would be desirable. And reliefs must be, if they were, but they said no, the economists themselves said that this structure of the income scale and the pay for success was most appropriate for them. If you have read, you can see that there is now one division in the economy, because some think that this is a good direction; others do not agree because they believe that the burden should be greater. Under the given circumstances, a greater burden simply cannot be given because there is no room for it. Of course, I am serious because I want the competitiveness of Slovenian companies to be increased in this area. And if companies themselves believe that this is how they increase, this is essentially the direction we need to go. The second is that we have not mentioned so far – these are all other activities that go towards reducing the administrative burdens of businesses. We already had last year's amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, this year we have practically prepared, with all the changes in tax laws we have simplifications. And part of this package that we have here is the tax burden, this administrative burden. This is what we want to do to make the tax environment more tax-friendly. Of course, space is no longer available at this time, it will be possible to relax towards 2019, 2020. At that time, one part could be devoted to further reducing the tax burden, particularly for those with higher wages. The unions in this part want to unload the medium layer, they are not talking about wanting a decommissioning to increase competitiveness, but is the aim of decommissioning the middle class. And when you go, what's the middle class, and how you define it, when we had our first interviews, we kind of came to this kind of middle class. Now they came to think that this was not the middle class, that the middle class was then about 1 average salary. This, then, is a different objective, which is more of a social nature, and not a goal of increasing competitiveness, because only increasing competitiveness will result in higher economic growth, which is urgently needed for the sake of demographics.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I will take advantage of this procedural proposal to discuss tax policy in the National Assembly, as well as these amendments proposed by the Minister. There are several reasons: one has already been opened by the Minister of Finance when he spoke of the decommissioning of the middle class, which is not the middle class and so on. I think it's very difficult for us to talk about this because we haven't had a so-called middle class in a very long time or at least we don't have a strong middle class. In fact, we don't even know where this middle class starts or where the middle class ends. I think there's more or less people in the lower class, whatever we're looking at. We can have different methodologies as well as different impressions on this and different opinions and assessments on this. Secondly, the minister also mentioned that this is not possible because the public financial situation does not offer an opportunity for a greater burden. But on the other hand, today the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has adopted an additional 40 million to go to electricity. This could also be used for something else. But it's over budget. Or I'll say it's not quite over, but this 40 million is just going to be budgeting, so formal. So you can do it. Another issue is wages, which are also increasing. There are a lot of costs in different areas, in public procurement and so on. There's a lot to do, so there's probably something else to do. Also in the light of the public sector's demands, which are expected to amount to almost 400 million to provide extra for salaries, which means additional provision for consumption. I'm not going to say I'm against it here; but I think there are reserves, that's what the data shows. We have economic growth, but not large enough to compete here with some other countries. This needs to be accelerated, and if this needs to be accelerated with taxes, then this is certainly done. When I talked about the different methods you have and also mentioned reliefs, exemptions and so on, Minister, you know, also with increased general ease to relieve employers, all employers. But this is again some proposed measure that has been rejected. I really suggest that the Minister will be easier to talk to employers and employees, that a public debate be held in the framework of the National Assembly and that certain decisions, recommendations to the Government on how and what to do with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your procedural proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, thank you for coming. Despite the proposal from your ministry to ask a question in writing and to receive such an answer, I have decided to ask you in the presence of the public, because I believe that the topic is very hot and important. During the arrival of migrants in Slovenia, a number of children and unaccompanied youth appeared who requested international protection. The specificity of their treatment is ensured by the provisions of international and Slovenian rules. Unfortunately, we have also witnessed the rejection of parents and teachers in Kranj, and I want to believe that children who needed only acceptance at the time will not be recognized as a general Slovenian attitude. In 2015 there were 44 applications for international protection of unaccompanied minors and 68 for this year. However, the problem arises in those children and adolescents who are granted status because they can no longer be accommodated in an asylum home or in integration houses. These minors must be taken care of in a comprehensive manner, by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities through social work centres as for all other children who have lost their parents. And we probably all agree that there is no difference between children. Your ministry mainly only takes care of the exercise of custody, while fulfilling other obligations attempts to transfer to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education. In this regard, I am interested in: How many children and adolescents with this status are currently in Slovenia? How is their accommodation, education, and care provided? Can you confirm that your ministry has recognized that these minors are completely equal to ours and that they must be cared for in the same way as all others? The fact that they are foreigners does not change the situation, since the last two words of your ministry's title are the same. Has there been a positive shift in terms of establishing a specific institution or programme for this group? And if it isn't, when will it be? In the end, I expose these children and youths because they have lost their only living support — their parents — and have found their hope in our country. There are not many, but there is a great drama in which they are cast without their guilt. Are you assessing the work of the director you are leading as a success; above all, I am thinking in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you for asking. Since these are children, the State is responsible for providing them, they are unaccompanied minors who have special protection under the International Protection Act. I would point out that the Social Protection Services Act, which is the responsibility of our Ministry, makes it very clear that social protection in the Republic of Slovenia is granted to persons who have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, which are not applicants for international protection. Children should be absolutely taken care of. In accordance with our powers, we have made a call to provide representatives for their rights, while at the same time very intensively coordinating with the Ministry of Education, Science, Education and Sport, as well as with the Ministry of the Interior, how to find a solution for these children. According to the Centre for Social Work, Vič currently has 24 unaccompanied children in the Republic of Slovenia, of which 14 are in an asylum home and 10 are in crisis centres. Of 24 children, two have international protection status, the procedure for obtaining status is run by the Ministry of the Interior and the data on the involvement of children in school is run by the competent Ministry – Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. As far as we are aware, all children are enrolled in education, as applications for international protection for education are also justified after the application has been made. The Law on International Protection, which is part of the Ministry of the Interior’s work, provides for unaccompanied minors to be placed in or exposed to an asylum home. If this is not possible due to health or other special needs, adequate accommodation, care and treatment shall be provided exceptionally in another relevant institution in the Republic of Slovenia. The competent ministry, the Ministry of the Interior, has informed us of an increase in the number of migrants who have entered our country and of the problems in the accommodation and care of unaccompanied minors, to which our ministry has also responded. We are working together with the Ministry of Home Affairs and Education to find suitable locations and lay the groundwork for resolving this issue. Notwithstanding the fact that this is part of the field, under the Ministry's work force, and that our position is that, according to the legal basis, the best solution is to ensure adequate care in the form of an exposure to asylum at home, we assess that our ministry's participation in the search for integrated solutions is constructive, and we are aware that solutions will have to be found. You also asked me when the Economic Migration Strategy would be adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Economic Migration Strategy for Slovenia for the period 2010-2020 at the end of 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich. I don't know what to tell you; I hope he'll be here any minute. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Let's hope he doesn't break his leg if he goes too fast. I have announced to the Minister of Justice the question of the Member State which concerns, in my opinion, one of the biggest problems at this time in Slovenia. It is a question of a bank hole, it is a question of investigating all the crimes related to the so-called bank hole, because in 2013, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia lost or was injured, if we can say so, about EUR 2 000 500, as it cost to recapitalise banks on the basis of tax money. One would expect the authorities of detection, prosecution and trial to take this as a first-class priority in their work. In 2013, two or three months, as far as I was still in the interior ministry, knowing what was going to happen in this area, I provided additional employment at the National Investigation Office, which had already been realized at the time and at the time that followed, at the time when Mr Virant was led by the Ministry of Interior. The National Investigation Office has increased the number of investigators or employees from 60 to about 80. The prosecution's organization has also been greatly strengthened at this time, as you know. But if we look below the line today, it would be said that this "under the line" is now even up to date, and we can see that this country has brought to court three people who are suspected of lending some credit that is not supposed to be granted in the right way; and that these three persons are being released. But of course that's not my question. My question is this: What will you, the government, the state, and above all the government do to make you at least about the same as Iceland? In Iceland, there was this bank hole about two and a half years ago, almost three years before us. And in Iceland, at the end of 2015, watch out for this information, convicted and imprisoned by law, at least according to Mr Vladimir Lužnik, our Honorary Consul, and the French investigator Eva Joly, who led the case, 80% of the bankers who granted bad loans. 80%! Slovenia after three years – nothing. What needs to be changed, and who needs to do something to be at least about Iceland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u238	Dear Vice President, Honourable Dr. Gorenak, other Members and Members of Parliament, Comrade Minister! Thank you for asking. First, I'll tell you what we've done and what we're going to do. Before that, two more notes. The first is, and I am absolutely not satisfied with the way we deal with so-called banking crime. I believe that, as Minister and as Secretary of State for a long time, you are also aware of the limitations that the Minister of Justice or any other minister has in this area because it is mainly about the functioning of one or the other independent bodies. In reality, you were also aware of this at a time when you were a year and a few months' late minister with responsibility for internal affairs and for the prosecution. I do not recall any specific action in this area, except — and I admit it — to complete the NPU with new staff; but not any specific legislative or organisational measures. What have we done in this area? We have imposed higher penalties for corruption crimes against the economy and against official duty. We have extended the limitation period for corruption crimes. All corruption crimes are now being prosecuted before district and district courts. We have strengthened the effectiveness of prosecution of tax evasion and abuse of internal information. All these things were adopted in this National Assembly, many of them by vote or at least with the lag of the opposition. We have removed the legal barriers to the appointment of experts with special knowledge to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. We have increased the possibility of dealing with district judges at district courts, which is already taking place in Ljubljana, Maribor and Koper. We have established a special section on procedures for the confiscation of assets of illegal origin, the so-called civil financial department, with the possibility of allocating state defenders who are familiar with the conduct of civil proceedings. And in the final phase, what the previous government had promised, the Brother's Government, and we have done, we have carried out the greatest reinforcement, the humane reinforcement of the prosecution's species since independence. On 15 September 2015, 30 new prosecutors swore before me. Since you know what the number state of prosecution is all about, you also know that this is a significant increase. Next. Firstly, in the history of Slovenia, in the framework of the Centre for Justice Education, we have started with the implementation of focused, focused workshops and seminars on economic crime. Too late. Absolutely too late. But at least that's what started happening. And speaking of Iceland, we have drawn up a proposal for a law on systematic investigations of projects of national importance, which I know is that you are deleting the flag and thread, or whatever it is called. But you know, he was prepared on the basis of the Icelandic experience, so to speak. I believe and hope that after his parliamentary holidays he will live again, whatever fate he will experience in this assembly. But I believe we're going to bring him one way or another to the end. In the fall you will also get parliamentarians quite large if you go through inter-sectoral and professional coordination, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which will represent a significant limitation of the Institute of Judicial Investigation, which – as you point out many times – we rarely agree, but I think that we agree on this – represents one of the major obstacles to the persecution of such difficult forms of crime. In the final phase, I am talking about a deadline of 14 days, a report by the Government on the establishment of a specialised, so-called ARO – Asset Recovery Office is said to amend the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is intended to establish a special section aimed exclusively at the confiscation of illegal property. And the last thing we're thinking seriously, and it's going to crystallize by the fall what to do with a specialised court. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I believe Dr. Vinko Gorenak will request a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Usually you take my questions as some kind of attack on you or as some kind of proof of your incompetence; but that's not the case. I have no ill-intentioned intention in this matter because I am asking in fact what the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are asking. At the same time as the former Minister of the Interior, also responsible for the prosecution, I am deeply aware of what you can do. And of all the things that you have listed now, I think you can only influence through the CAP and through reduced procedures, especially by putting an end to this judicial investigation, which I don't think is any more. But the problem we have is one. You said nothing was done in 2012. Yeah, there wasn't a bank hole back then. We covered the bank hole in the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek. I wasn't at the Ministry at the time. True, it was a long time ago, but 5 billion in banks spent money was in 2013 according to my memory. I wasn't there at the time. Now there is no point in talking about these systematic investigations, because it is totally lame; because we will talk about it when the law on the agenda is here in the National Assembly. But you listed a series of measures, okay, I don't have anything, because I know what has been done so far or what hasn't been done. But Prosecutor Kozina said a year and a half ago: "The first cases will be, if they are, in the courts in 15 years' time. Another man or the first man of the NPU made a statement a month ago, saying, "So I don't know what's going to happen in the courts." At the hearing of the prosecutor's report, Mr Furlan or the first prosecutor involved also made a statement that made it clear that there was virtually nothing to be expected from. And that is why I think that something other than what you are saying is necessary; especially the political will that I will justify in the following.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mag. Goran Klemenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you very much. First of all, I don't take your questions for an attack. I've grown up so much. Secondly, I must say that I smiled – the cameras may not have caught it – that the bank holes in 2012 when you were the minister were not yet there. Personally, I know you've also been meeting with reporters about the bank hole as the Minister of the Interior and then assigned to the NPU which applicants are to meet with. That's why it's another story. I do not agree with you that my only tool is the CAP. The CAP is, of course, a key tool, but three things you always have if you want to improve the efficiency of a system. One is a procedural law, that is the CAP. Turn the police around here, and it's gonna be hard for the prosecution. I think we can agree on that, too, even though we are on different shores. The other thing is the organization of work in the court itself and in the prosecution itself. Here, as you have heard, I believe that we will succeed, I hope that we will succeed – if not for you, I believe that you will breathe as a collar for us – is the organization of the judicial network. And the prosecution's network to make it more effective. It's the last responsibility. Responsibility and transparency of the functioning of the two subsystems, in particular the prosecution and the courts, and partly the police. And I think we can do a lot in this area. But speaking of which, I will say so myself, I was the one who signed a proposal for a complaint or a notice about the case that fell last week; and unfortunately, it is the first such big thing. And I am the first to be frustrated; not because it fell, but because it was a court decision, because it took so long that this case came before a court in the case of Dimic and her credit. Whatever you're thinking, at the KPK, which is so very black, we were the ones who filed the first criminal complaint in this case at the NPU. And I'm not happy. Not because it worked out. It's up to the court to do its job. Some are innocent, others are guilty. This took so long, and this is frustrating and I am telling you – the CAP, organisation and responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u244	Very interesting, I'll say. You're obviously still a KPK investigator, not the Minister of Justice; but I don't know what kind of investigator you are. I can assure you publicly in front of the cameras that I have never met any NPU investigators. Never! I had a meeting with all the employees at the NPU, where I greeted them, told them that they would have 20 more associates and wished them a good job. I may have had two conversations with the new head of the NPU, who then took over the business; and I told him that I was expecting an effective job investigating crime. Anything else can be something like any of your reports that have ever been rescinded. But still, let's leave this matter to itself, because you can't answer it, let's go to the content. I propose a debate on this issue, not so that you or the Minister of the Interior can be impaled on the cross, far from it. It is a fundamental question of how to bring these measures to Iceland as soon as possible, or at least to get close to Iceland, but for these five billion that have disappeared, someone will start to answer in that country. I am deeply aware that your powers are limited, and yours do not know whose else is limited; but I think that the fundamental problem is not at all you. The underlying problem is not an internal minister at all. A fundamental problem, I don't know if the government is in this area. The fundamental problem is that in this country we do not want to persecute these people, to impose measures and to take measures that prevent as much efficiency as in Iceland. If the Ljubljana Bank is investigating these matters now, the one who once supervised the Ljubljana Bank, now he has a well-paid job for several thousand euros and so on. If the banks do not wish to give data to the police and so on; if we have a judiciary whose basic task is still, at least ours, protecting the left-wing political option. These are the problems that this country must solve, so I propose that we hold a debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Luka Mesec will raise the question to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you and a nice hello! Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you a question about deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. As is known, the initiative is yours, you are the main initiator of this, so I am addressing you with the question of the meaning of this measure. For us, the United Left was surprising because you showed that the analysis of Umarja and the Ministry of Finance showed that the positive effects of such a move would not be for the budget, not for the population or for the economy. Therefore, in the United Left, just before the expiry of the Regulation, which allowed for partial deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, we called for an urgent meeting of the Economic Committee, where we proposed that a new regulation be adopted after the expiry of the Regulation, which would once again introduce full regulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives. Your Secretary of State has opposed this to Flossules on the free market, the market economy, competitiveness and so on. But the fact is that we have an oil derivative market with us, even more precisely, a duopoline, and that obviously deregulation will only benefit the biggest distributors, says Istrabenz and Petrol, who control the virtually entire market. With regard to the other stakeholders, the analysis is clear. There will be less money in the state budget due to on the one hand to less spending and, on the other hand, higher prices. For consumers and the economy, the effects will be negative for the same reasons. The only ones benefiting from this Regulation are distributors. That is why I am interested in the following matters: Why do you insist on eliminating the regulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, despite the fact that deregulation only brings higher fuel prices? Why, contrary to the Economic Committee's decision, do you continue to deregulation to those we have referred to before the effects of 100-octane petrol and fuel oil are known? The Committee has proposed that prices should be monitored by the end of the year and that it should be decided only then. This was also supported by the coalition. Why did you deregulation the fuel oil in the so-called dead season when the sale of this fuel is small and price increases are not expected; therefore, the effects of this measure cannot be known? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u247	Minister Rest, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u248	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, thank you for asking. I'm glad I got this opportunity to answer your question directly. Our task is to ensure and implement measures to create a competitive environment. We have long been out of the agreed economy, only a few areas are still under the price regulation system, and one of these is the price regulation of oil derivatives. The regulation of the prices of oil derivatives for companies is certainly not an environment that would encourage or encourage them to take a free economic initiative. We can and are critical to all three analyses. You mentioned two – Umar and the Ministry of Finance; and the analysis made by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We must be aware that in the case of regulating the prices of oil derivatives, the risk for companies operating on the free market is too high to even consider entering our market. The aim of our ministry is to establish a normal functioning market where market mechanisms and competition between oil derivatives distributors can be established. We cannot and must not look fixed; what I now assess is that you are doing what you do not agree with. Following the removal of regulated prices, an increase in heterogeneous prices is expected. We assume that prices on motorways will be higher, while prices in cities and at borders due to competition would be lower. Domestic consumers always have a choice between highway and domestic environment, while foreign consumers have to cross Slovenia, which is not so large that it is not possible to do so. The release of measures to control the prices of petroleum derivatives will, according to our long-term assumptions, contribute to greater competition for oil derivatives. But what I'm about to say is the opposite, as you say, we think the deregulation measure will bring. Today we have an oligopolistic system supported by the existing system. And we'll never make a change if we keep this matter going. We believe that this is the key reason we need to make deregulation. As a result, there will be greater price competition between the bidders, which will also benefit consumers as prices will be the same or lower than they have been before. Today we have the situation that even those who are smaller are leaving the country; and in some time we will have a truly duopoly system. We therefore believe that now is the time to gradually release or deregulation the market for oil derivatives prices. It should be pointed out that, at the time of excessive price increases, a system of regulated prices can be restored at any time. It is said that there is no danger of any deviation because we can immediately and immediately put in place a system of regulated prices, which, if you do not know, has been in force for 15 years. In any case, we have the right to regulate prices exceptionally for 6 months; and we have been extending these 6 months for 15 years. Let me also answer the second question that a decision was adopted at the 33rd meeting of the Committee on the Economy which requires the Government to assess by the end of 2016 the consequences of deregulation of oil derivatives prices. The price must be based on an analysis of the price trend of the released petroleum derivatives and the possible continuation of the deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives on motorways is in no way contrary to the decision taken by the Committee on the Economy. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we monitor daily trends in prices of all oil derivatives on the world market based on market quotations. We also monitor the price movement of 100-octane gasoline and fuel oil. We have found that following deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives there has been a minimal rise in prices of 100-octane petrol and fuel oil. The free price is higher by 1 cent per litre compared to the price they would have had if these two oil derivatives were still regulated, which I can confirm with certainty. More in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u249	Luka Moon wants to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u250	Thank you. If I understand you correctly, you have two arguments above all. One is to facilitate entry into the market and the other is more heterogeneous, where you promise mainly benefits to consumers. With regard to entry into the market, I have to oppose you because the market is virtually free today. The only thing that is limited is the margin, and on everything else, the bidders can freely enter our market. And so it will remain after deregulation, by essentially having the best location for the installation of petrol services already occupied. Here we do not see that there could be, say, a booming competition instead of duopol or oligopol, which we now have, as you state. In this respect, we see it as a substantial more prudent regulation of price regulation. Second thing, it's good for consumers. Some time ago, even the Finances acknowledged that, for example, in neighbouring Austria, where the prices of petrol are deregulated, the average value of gasoline for consumers is more expensive than for us. There may be a price of diesel gas somewhere in Koroška right now under the euro, but if you go to the Austrian highway, you will pay substantially more for a litre than we do. There are no or no benefits for consumers in this respect. I repeat once again what I said before, in this measure we see nothing else in the United Left but the additional revenue of companies that already have a dual position in control of our market. Only their margins will increase, and all the rest of us will lose.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u251	Minister Zdravko Restoršek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u252	I must reiterate once again that the existing system supports the dual system, that our providers are leaving. It has to be admitted that we all work, as well as the vendors, for the margin. With this measure, we believe that we will create additional competition, but we have not said anything about one problem that needs to be solved in parallel. I think that the most appropriate moment for deregulation in all of this 15-year history is now when we have the lowest oil prices on the world markets, but this space is also filled with excise duties. We must, in accordance with all measures, come to a system that will also encourage foreign drivers, drivers crossing Slovenia, to decide to fill their tanks with us. We have a situation where, for example, we have a excise policy on the ceiling, even after decisions by the European Community or the Union, we no longer have to raise matters. In short, in any case, in the end, if there is none of what I have just said is true; and if you are right in everything you have said, we have a fuse so that by pressing the button at any moment we can reintroduce the regulated system and the market for petroleum derivatives. Therefore, there is no risk and no risk of supporting the profits of two or three existing oil traders through this measure. I expect that this analysis, which we are currently working with the Ministry of Finance, will demonstrate the eligibility of our decision to continue deregulation gradually. I am not talking about complete deregulation, but we are talking about the next step of deregulation on the highway, where we can also provide, once again, competition for local customers outside the highway; for those who just cross Slovenia, the situation in the area of at least three countries around us is that fuel is cheaper at this point and prices are deregulation everywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u253	Mr. Luka Moon, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u254	Yes, I think it would be good for the National Assembly to hold a debate on this. Contrary to what we have heard from the Minister, even the European Commission regularly notes that the oil derivative market is one of the worst operating places where fuel prices have been deregulation. I also cannot agree with the Minister that this is a reversible measure that can be repealed at any time by pressing the price reregulation button. I think then, Mr. Minister, the pressure on you will be even greater. If we now have companies that pressure you with appetites after a potentially higher profit, you will be in six months, a year if you find that the deregulation did not come out the way you thought it would be, and that the actual thing is more similar to what we see that will only increase prices and thus profit for these companies, the return to regulated prices would actually fall into the real profits of these companies. And then the pressure on you, on the Ministry, on the government will be even greater than it is now. It will be very difficult for us to return to regulation from this point. However, I would point out that the Committee on the Economy has clearly agreed that price developments should be monitored by the end of the year, now that partial deregulation has been introduced, and it is only on the basis of a thorough analysis that it is necessary to decide whether total deregulation is meaningful. Therefore, your insistence on haste is also a violation of this committee's decision, it is said to be a violation of the legislative body's decision. I think it is time for us to discuss in the National Assembly how the government should take into account our conclusions and our guidance. After all, we are the ones who are supposed to dictate the direction of the government; and not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The National Assembly will decide on your proposal tomorrow, as part of Tuesday's vote. Mr Zvonko Lah will refer the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Ministers and Minister! The management of state forests is expected to take over from concessionaires on 1 July this year by the Slovenian State Forests State Company, d. o. o., after the end of concessions of the current concessionaires. However, since the law was adopted very late in our opinion and also in the procedure, then the establishment of the company was not as rapid, as express as it was said, we strongly doubt that with 1. 7. This company fully assumes the tasks of former concessionaires. This company does not even have a supervisory board; the supervisory board has 8 members, but the government has set up a commission. The invitation to tender was made and some 40 candidates were supposed to apply. The Commission should then check all these candidates, all 40. Then every ministry, four ministries, each minister gave one candidate, one opposition to Parliament. And three members are of the kind of employees in society. As far as I know, according to my information, the company now has three employees and not more. In addition, the Agricultural Land Fund has also put out invitations to tender for the implementation of works, namely five tenders where tenders are to be submitted by 5. 5. According to some information, more than 500 operators have applied for different works. These performers are supposed to receive a list of works and submit bids, then only contracts will be concluded; and this is supposed to be up to 1. This year's 7th, it's said that we have 17 or 16 days to go. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary. Will all things be done by then, so that new operators can do work in the state forests on an equal footing, such as these concessionaires?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u257	Minister Dejan Židan, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u258	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for asking. You rightly concluded that it would have been good if the law had been adopted as early as possible, but it was adopted when it was adopted. And it should be said that since then all tasks have been carried out in accordance with the timetable prescribed in the law. It is important that in March the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also adopted rules on the manner, conditions and criteria for selecting operators after the submission of individual works for four sets. The main component at this time is cutting and harvesting, as well as transporting forest and wood varieties, and then maintenance and construction of forest infrastructure and cultivation and protection works. As you rightly said, more than 500 providers and these service providers have also obtained conclusions on appropriateness or inappropriateness. As soon as the appeal deadlines are completed, that will be all the time, then the contracts will begin. The President of the Government also said today, in response to his question, that it is likely that today, at the government's letter meeting, the appointment of criteria will be triggered. The criteria in practice mean that sales contracts can then be concluded. It is particularly important for those who are not only dealers, but are part of the forest-forest chain, so that they themselves demand to produce products of higher added value themselves. As far as the Supervisory Board is concerned, procedures shall be carried out according to the timetable. As long as it is not purely legitimate, so far the role of the Governing Council and the congregation has been played simultaneously by the government. However, it must be said that with 1. 7. Once the concessions have ceased, there will be no new concessions. But since 1. 7. By the end of this year, individual works and parts will be delivered under these criteria, which shall apply until the end of the year. During this time, the systematisation of works and tasks within the Slovenian State Forests company has also been adopted. Employment is also starting these days and, in particular, the transfer of people. The transfer of people from the fund, you know, will take place exactly 1. Seven. Before that, there will also be contracts, I think interviews are already under way; and with 1. 7. People will be transferred from the Fund in accordance with the law to a new economic society. The entire structure of systemization is made. Some individual jobs will be complemented before that, in particular, it is important to fill jobs that are linked to managers and to those who accompany the forest or wood on the way forward, so that the procedures are carried out. I would like it myself to be a little longer, but after the company's assurances, they have also provided me with a report on the two-month work and an action plan for the next two months, things are going on as provided for by law. But there will be no more new concessions since 1. Seven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u259	Bell Lach, supplemental response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u260	Mr. Secretary, it would be nice if it went the way you said it would. But I think there are still a number of procedures that are possible under the Public Procurement Act, which must be respected. The first is the call for an information system to support forest management. God’s Word, 1 / 1 The 7th must be over. As far as I know, an information system like this, built on the skin of one company, needs a few months to work. Also, certain equipment that needs to be purchased is written in there about 100 mobile printers and things like that, it doesn't go overnight. The draft contract states below that it must be 1. 7. All done. It's two dates and the others aren't. I want to know: How's that going? Since there is no information system, the company certainly cannot function well from the very beginning. When you said that the Commission had now determined the competence of these operators. The performers got their conclusions. It is likely that one of the operators will complain and have the right to appeal; the procedure will be extended. The contract shall not be signed just like that. First it's sent to the performers' lists, they're making offers. The invitation to tender shall contain only the lowest price and nothing else; and once the Commission has chosen the tenderer, the contract shall not be signed. It is also possible to revise the procedure. Someone's probably going to complain. And there's another procedure that goes on. It's not as easy as an official imagines.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u261	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u262	Nevertheless, you must understand that in the case of the Slovenian State Forests of this company, which is also right, the Ministry does not manage. This company has management, it has the performers of duties, and at the same time, there are two other officials who help it inform us, so there are three. At the same time, I think that at this very moment they are hiring the fences of this company, informing us that the procedures are under way, also informing us that in all areas where something could go slower, that scenario B is also ready. And I totally believe it's gonna be company one. 7. The work we expect her to do. Do we expect it to be 1. Worked perfectly? Here let me tell you a case from Bavaria, when they set up an economic company for forest management in Bavaria, I think this was in 2005. The Bavarian minister was not fully satisfied with her work until three years later, because it is a new economic society. I believe that the works will take place and will go better from year to year. I know that sometimes the questions of concessionaires arise, or you can guarantee us that we will get this job. We can't. That's exactly what it's like to get away from the concessionary system. Concessionists forget to say anything else, less and less work has been done alone, and you have also seen on some occasions reports of how some subcontractors have done so. If I have good information, I think that by the time the concessions stop, they are already operating with almost 40% of subcontractors. I think in a number of cases it is and will apply to the subcontractor as an equal competitor. In fact, we cannot guarantee and there is no need, nor is it intended for the same companies that have so far worked in the state forest to continue to work. Those who are more effective will work. However, I believe that through the criteria, those who were able to present their competences came. You know, there was a lot of fear that there would be a lot of strangers. As far as I know, only five foreigners have applied, namely those five foreigners who are already working in Slovenian forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you, Minister Dejan Jidan. Mr. Lah, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u264	I would take this procedural opportunity to hold a debate. Mr. Secretary, they haven't been elected yet. The contractors will be selected when their tenders are confirmed and accepted. It's been a while. 30. This month, current concessionaires must clear all forests; as if they were gone and no longer have access to state forests. In one 180-employee company, 120 employees are assigned to work in state forests, who will be on hold from 180 employees on 1 July if they do not get the contract by then or are not selected as contractors. Four companies have already announced voluntary liquidation because they are in fact out of work from 1 July. These concessionaires have long-term contracts for the supply of wood from the state forests to certain domestic foresters or mizzards who are no longer able to supply wood. Then what are they going to do to you? What a huge supply they can't make, it didn't work. I wonder if it is not possible to do this on purpose in such a way that we have come into this time crisis, that these domestic timber processors will have to turn to private suppliers because the state or concessionaires after 30. 6. they can no longer provide supplies so that this state-owned company can then export all of this refrigeration. They will no longer be obliged to supply refrigeration to suppliers or to these woodworkers because they will say — we have nothing to do with it; find your own way. How are they gonna get their own way?Oh, my God! True, they all claim that these domestic buyers are in trouble, including liquidity, not paying immediately as Austrians; they pay and use domestic wood. Now there will be a conflict that is questionable. Who's going to be the contractor? True, subcontractors will be able to be incompetent, poor quality, and we will probably have three years or more to create what has been before.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 14 June, in the framework of the votes. Ms Anita Koleša will address the question to Minister of Culture Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers! My question is indeed addressed to our Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Persak. In the past month, the Slovenian public has been very busy with the case of the mercury mine Idrija, which is now on the side track, as if there were no more problems or were then disproportionate to the actual state of affairs, in fact exposed as insurmountable. However, it is recalled that in 2014 legal bases were provided for the smooth and ongoing implementation of all procedures related to the multi-annual process of finding a solution to the proper operation of the Silver Mine in Idrija and its priceless cultural heritage, also on Unesc's World Heritage List. Despite the prior provision of limited legal bases, there was a delay in the implementation of the planned tasks from the legal bases adopted in 2015. Thus, the Centre for the Heritage of Mercury was unable to carry out its tasks, by means of a founding act of certain tasks, despite the Government's decision of 2013 and also by confirming the decision of the current government. Minister, in your election, you have committed yourself to working together with the Government and the Heritage Centre and for Idrija to resolve this extremely important issue for the Mercury Mine and, of course, also for Slovenia in general. For me and also for Members of the Modern Centre Party, the question or your answer is important: What progress has the Ministry of Culture made since you were Slovenian Minister of Culture? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u267	Minister of Culture, Mr Peršak, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u268	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for the question raised, from which I understand in particular the concern about the preservation of our cultural heritage, which is listed on the UNESCO list. As you can see, the establishment of the operation of the Public Institute for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija, in short CUDHg, and the simultaneous liquidation of the Mine of Living Silver, d.o.o., a long process. To this end, the Mining Act was first amended and supplemented, and the Government was then governed by its decision of 24. Seven. 2014 undertakers for the continued maintenance of the watertight part of the cave and the implementation of monitoring in the affected mine area are designated by the Public Institute of CUDHg Idrija. Pursuant to point 4 of this Decision, Governments shall provide funding for the operation of the institution to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the Ministry of Culture, in accordance with their respective fields of work. This means that the Ministry of Culture provides budgetary resources for the management of property related to UNESCO; and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, within its budgetary headings, provides funding for the maintenance of the unspoiled part of the cave, water pumping and monitoring activities in the mine area. In accordance with all these grounds, some of the following has been done in the past weeks of my mandate. The Centre's work programme and financial plan, adopted by the Council of the Centre, have been confirmed, including a warning that the envisaged funds are unlikely to be sufficient and that the financial plan will almost certainly need to be complemented. However, it is essential that the financial plan and the work programme have also been confirmed by the Ministry of the Economy that in this way a basic agreement has been reached on the provision of the conditions for the financing of the public institution in 2016. The Ministry of Culture has given its consent to the work programme and financial plan CUDHg Idrija for 2016 on condition that the financial plan is not sufficient to complement it. Both ministries committed to this. Both ministries are also currently checking the work of the current mercury mine in liquidation to determine how much money is actually needed. Nevertheless, we have created the conditions for the Center to function normally. Our ministry has already issued a financing decision and thus has provided funds to carry out activities related to UNESCO. The Ministry of the Economy has signed a contract with the Centre to provide funds and activities relating to water pumping, maintenance of unsoaked trenches and so on. By approving these two acts, CUDHg is qualified to work to take over employees from a company in liquidation. A human resources plan and a systematisation act are being prepared. We expect workers to pass through in the middle of July and contracts will be concluded with them. The Ministry of Culture is also monitoring the implementation of the project on the restoration of the smelter, co-financed by the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area and the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. The Ministry of Culture already provided EUR 323 000 in 2015 and thus covered Slovenia's share in the implementation of the project. There have been some liquidity problems this year, but CUDHg has eliminated this problem by enrolling in a single treasury account and, as a result, by obtaining a bridge credit. CUDHg Idrija has also received funds from the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area and the Norwegian mechanism for the implementation of the heating project recently on the basis of a request for payment, so that the project will be completed in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u269	Thank you, too. Mr Franz Breznik will raise the question of a letter to the Minister for Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, and to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u270	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your word. Dear Minister! As you know, I've already asked you some practical questions from the field this year. I have repeatedly mentioned that in the Slovenian Gore, we have carried out an analysis of the introduction of tax registers and have detected major problems. The first example is smaller farmers, a number of Slovenian farms facing numerous administrative obstacles in recent years also with regard to the legislation adopted on tax receipts. The second stage is a number of societies, firefighting societies, cultural societies, rural women's societies and others, which – I must admit – and also thank the Minister for Finance – you have now listened. The news came to the public that on 4 June at least those companies that have up to EUR 5,000 have somehow been exempted. I ask both ministers: Why is it that small producers of vegetables and vegetables have not been excluded from my monitoring? In particular, on these small farms, which we have in the Slovenian Gorica, such as the municipalities of Jurovski Dol, the Council of Ana, the Council of Trojica, also in the Cerkvenjak, where smaller farmers still face major problems with the introduction of tax registers. These are farmers who are modestly living, who have extremely small farms and who are added to their activities on farms as a source of livelihood. That's why I'm asking both of you: Why were smaller producers exempted from this exemption? I'm sorry about the company. As we know, every day we talk about healthy Slovenian food, we talk about our self-sustainment, self-sustainment, we know the structure of the size of Slovenian farms. From the environment where I come from, we have the problem of small farms and the problem of hilly worlds, difficult to control areas, which, in addition, often cause problems in machine production; therefore, I believe that you will listen to us, especially you, the respected Minister of Finance. And I also ask the Minister of Agriculture if he will take more action for these small growers. Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u271	Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Indeed, we have dealt with this subject several times before, so allow me only to give taxive details of some facts and what is in preparation. Firstly, tax clearance of accounts is prescribed for all taxpayers who operate in cash and are obliged to keep business books and records and to issue VAT bills. When preparing tax clearance solutions, the principle of equal treatment was followed and a very narrow set of exceptions was set. The law provides special solutions for debtors with a low volume of traffic, the use of bound accounts, the application Mini tax box on eTaxes. The agricultural activity of natural persons, as you asked, is, in principle, when accounting is not necessary. This is where its income is fixed on a flat basis on the basis of catastronomic income exempt from the obligation of tax clearance of accounts. In doing so, intensive gardening is, irrespective of its scope today, due to unestablished recording and, in particular, to highly heterogeneous processing, where it is difficult to unify for the purposes of flat-rate income assessment, part of the agricultural activity for which income must be determined by keeping the bookkeeping, which is also due to the obligation to tax confirmation of the accounts. However, the new cadastral income law, which is being considered in the National Assembly, proposes that intensive vegetable production may also be assessed on the basis of cadastral income, regardless of the volume of production. This will make it easier for the grower to keep books for the purpose of determining income and, consequently, for the purposes of the tax clearance of the account.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u273	Also Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u274	Thank you. Once again, Mr President, Members, Members, Members of Parliament, who have asked a question! Now our Minister of Finance has responded. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food also proposed, on the basis of an interview with the Agriculture and Rural Council, which is the highest body within the Ministry with which we consult, the Ministry of Finance 26. 4. next. However, we referred to the Agriculture Council. The Agriculture and Rural Council has taken the view that the introduction of tax boxes has placed a disproportionate administrative and financial burden on certain agricultural, forestry and complementary activities which are normally carried out to a lesser extent. At the same time, she suggested that we take over the whole Austrian system, which has two borders of €7 000 500 for cash and €15 000 for income. We have proposed to the Ministry of Finance to examine our proposal. But the fact is, at least two things have happened by then. The first thing is draft legislation on cadastral income, which I think is already in the National Assembly; we were able to place garden production entirely with the ratios. By doing so, we are moving away from the mandatory management of books. At the same time, there was something that our non-governmental partners also agreed on. The explanation of the cadastral income law also contains a type of reference which obliges the applicant to prepare a new law governing income; and would allow for the exemption of small producers and to be placed in a flat, where there is no longer any bookkeeping and indirect tax collection. When we talked to the non-governmental sector, it was an acceptable solution and we, as a ministry, supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u275	Complementary answer, Mr. Breznik, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u276	Thank you very much. As you know, both ministers, even when you introduced the Law on Tax attestation of Accounts, I had exactly the same views that you have now. Unfortunately, it has been quite a while since then, and I have also said what will happen in a little while with regard to the structure of agriculture. I also pointed out to members, colleagues from Desus and also colleagues from the Modern Centre Party what problems societies have. You have introduced solutions for societies; and through cadastral income we can now also save smaller vegetable growers. I have plenty of them in Slovenian Gourmets, and let me say just a few examples of these administrative obstacles to smaller vegetable growers on the market. This happened, as they wrote, for example, the use of tax registers on the market is almost unsustainable. You sell marmalade, strawberries and apples on the market; marmalade is a complementary activity, so you have to issue an account; strawberries are registered as another activity, you have to put out an account; for apples that are a basic agricultural activity, there is no need to put an account. Most of the time, marmalade is made from those apples that have been destroyed or damaged and cannot be sold. So it's a whole series of nonsense, you have to put a notice on the tax box about the obligation to issue an account. How do I explain to the customer that an apple does not need to be billed because it is taxed on cadastral income; for the rest it had to issue an invoice?Oh, my God! It was a whole series of administrative obstacles that I hope we will adopt solutions and that these smaller producers will be eliminated. I hope that, according to your own words, you have come to think that at least these small producers, which are largely on the market, are important activities to be excluded from this. Thank you both ministers, I will closely monitor the continuation of these solutions, especially for the survival of our farmers, especially in the Slovenian Gorica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u277	Perhaps one of the ministers would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Jani Möderndorfer will address the question to the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u278	Thank you very much, Chairman. We are facing the issue of the Environmental Protection Act. You know that Article 94 eliminated the possibility of obtaining a temporary and occasional excessive burden on construction sites outside closed and covered spaces. It is a problem that has done more or less simply to have serious problems today, that no serious construction site must be completed in the right time dimension. You know that this change only knows the exception to events when there are events; that is all. Minister, you have already had one attempt, because a draft regulation amending the Regulation on limit values for environmental noise indicators was sent to you, but the piano ended because more or less of those opponents are more or less environmentalists and civil society opposed. This was the first attempt that fell into the water. Another attempt, soon after that you started to prepare a new regulation, which is more or less, we could read these days, even on this path, that they are not satisfied with this assessment. You yourself announce that you are preparing a new regulation or some way with some professional basis; but the fact is that we have a serious problem because we have serious problems in the Slovenian area since 2014 because investors with such a regulation and under such conditions have difficulty in building. Especially because it is noise that is generated more or less in the time dimension, which is limited; not constant noise. Therefore, my question is very clear: When will you act or when will this regulation be adopted in the Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u279	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u280	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, honourable Members! Mr Jani Möderndorfer, thank you for the question. Our Ministry has published a draft regulation amending the Regulation on limit values for noise indicators in the environment 8. 6, so that it will be at public hearing by 22. 6. Following the conclusion of the public hearing, the Ministry will forward the draft regulation to the follow-up government procedure. Acceptance, if there are no major problems, is planned in July 2016. It is true, as you yourself have already stated, that the amendment of Article 94 of the Environmental Protection Act, ZVO-1F, which was amended in 2014, was before coming to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, was then covered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In order to ensure that the professional bases, which are in fact many times a reason, can be built at a normal rate, or that this normal pace of construction needs to slow down, we have prepared new professional bases, which we believe are prepared in a way that will be the result of the operation of a single source, which is always assessed from the facades of buildings with protected spaces and is located in the first, second and third stages of noise protection; and then we can find that construction that would satisfy the maximum critical values of noise indicators or even limit values for buildings or as a device, a source of noise for the 1st degree of noise protection in practice is not actually possible. Despite the fact that these prior permits for temporary excessive noise burden related to the fulfilment of the thresholds for noise indicators in relation to the level of noise protection, we believe that the use of a uniform approach to construction sites as temporary sources is justified, since they are likely to be deployed to areas with different uses of space, more or less, for the use of the same mechanism. We also base a single approach on the limits for noise emissions of construction sites, independent of noise protection levels, in use in other Member States. It is true, though, that if we live in an environment where noise is increased in our immediate vicinity, we are more sensitive to this noise; especially if there are schools, kindergartens, residential settlements in the immediate vicinity. At that time, things tend to get more complicated in our procedures than in areas where such construction is already under the existing trade or industrial zone, where this noise is less disruptive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u281	Jani Möderndorfer has a word for an additional answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u282	Dear Minister, I support you for these purposes and you have already said that you want this regulation to be amended. Unfortunately, the Minister of the previous mandate and also the legislator who confirmed this proposal made a major mistake at the final stage. But we have to be aware, we live in the 21st century, and development goes on. And in the 21st century, I can't imagine that a building pit works with hearing bags, various rover diggers and similar machines; it just doesn't work. The European Environment Agency, which has conducted the study, notes in its report that transport, railways and airports are the main source of noise in Europe, including industry. Certainly not construction sites that are locally restricted. Let me mention only the case, recently the data on Plečnik Stadium was published again, where they have a classic problem that they cannot continue with serious parts precisely because of this Regulation. If we were to respect legislation, we should be building 8 years instead of 4 years, which is insane, which is financial nonsense, from a time point of view, from every point of view. This means more or less that we will not have such a renovation, nor will the investor come back. It is necessary simply to overcome what Slovenians like to do – not in my garden. If it were somewhere else, we'd still agree. Minister, you have my support. Please continue not to be intimidated by civil initiatives; in particular, do what is right for the economy and development of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u283	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u284	I sincerely thank you for your support. Since Plečnik’s stadium was mentioned, in fact, the municipality changed its municipal spatial plan in this area, allowing the construction to take place. And as in many cases, even in my questions that I am answering here in Parliament, our ministry is in a strong relationship, in strong correlation with local communities, we are dependent on each other here whether we are successfully carrying out any procedures or not. We will certainly be able to resolve this issue with our collective strength when it comes to noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will refer the question to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to ask you again about the Termoelectric Trbovlje, which, as you know, should have stopped operating 1. 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For now he still acts as a so-called tertiary reserve. With this date, I was told by the employees that all the remaining 46 employees had lost their jobs; not the government, not the SDH, not the HSE, nor have they presented them yet. It is not only the fate of the employees that is unclear, but it is also the vague fate of the decommissioning of the thermal power plant. It is not clear who is to carry out this decomposition and when it should begin. It is not clear who will take care of the completion and rehabilitation of the landfill, which in that place poses a significant environmental risk. It is not a clear strategy for the sale of vital parts of the power plant, it is not clear who will lead the control, rehabilitation and cleaning of the facility from 1. Onwards. It is also not clear the fate of the TET-owned infrastructure, such as the Dobovec water pipeline, which is still supplying about 250 houses with drinking water. In this respect, Mr. Minister, I ask you the following questions: Why is the Treaty on the Territorial Reserve not applicable until the end of 2016? According to my information, it could be because apparently at least the employees there are not familiar with any plans for what will happen after 1. 8. Who will take up the role of the tertiary reserve now played by TET, and what costs will it entail? What will be the monthly cost of providing this reserve? Why doesn't HSE as the owner of TET start decomposing? The current employees who are still employed there have the knowledge needed to decompose, because they have worked for over 20 years or more at the end of the years, and they know the buildings and facilities that are there very well. Once this collective is dissolved, decommissioning will be significantly hampered. Why hasn't the decommissioning started yet? The working group has been in existence for a year and a half, and employees report that during this time they could work on the decommissioning and sale of vital parts; but it obviously got stuck in leadership because no strategy was adopted or a decision was taken on how to do so. What is the Ministry's view on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u287	Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Gasperšič, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, too, for asking the question. With regard to the tertiary reserve, I can reply as follows. Ensuring this reliable operation of the electricity system and thus the provision of a system reserve, these are matters within the competence of the system operator, namely, Eles. This also includes the competence to provide the tertiary reserve itself. In the Trbovlje Termoelectric power plant, two gas blocks of a total power of 63 megawatts are known to be not the most suitable for the provision of this tertiary reserve because of the outdated and poor state of the equipment. Although Eles is obliged to provide system services and a system reserve on call for proposals. According to Eles, it is unlikely that at these calls for a block at the Termoelectrica Trbovlje it would be possible to compete with the blocks that we have in Brest and in TES. In addition, the area for the provision of system services in the European Union opens across national borders, while at the same time several countries are joining up to provide the need for a reserve. This means that the supply of these services will continue to increase in the future and the need has fallen; hence, the price of these system services. Eles also informed us that, by the end of 2018, he has a total of 194 megawatts with GEN-I and Energetic Ljubljana. However, Eles purchased the difference between the required size of the tertiary reserve for 2016 and the tender issued at the end of 2015, so that for this year Eles does not have additional requirements for the tertiary reserve. These units of gas blocks 1 and 2 in the TET are also among all regulatory units offering this tertiary reserve this year; however, it should be pointed out that the contractual relationship applies to the portfolio method of providing the tertiary reserve, which means that the GE-I contractual partner shall, in the event of the need to activate the tertiary reserve itself, decide which units it will activate. In contrast, Gene-I decides when the tertiary reserve will have to be activated, which unit will take this role. We have also received information from Eles that, in terms of costs for final customers in 2016, there will be no changes since all contracts for this year have already been concluded. With regard to issues relating to the decommissioning of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, however, I can say that these are matters which are within the competence of the owner or parent company of HSE, where we have been informed that it is also necessary to obtain an appropriate building permit for the demolition and demolition process. They are aware of Rudis's assessment that it takes two to three years to prepare all project documentation and a contribution of approximately one million euros. They also note that the cost of decommissioning will not be covered by the sale of equipment. We have also been informed that the current environmental permit for TET does not even require decommissioning, and it also assesses that decommissioning would make sense if some other activities were to arrive at the site that would not be energy-intensive by their content. However, the current spatial acts at this location do not allow this at present. Only energy activity is still envisaged in this area, which is also known to the mayors of the Sisak municipalities and also to members of the Porez. Our ministry's opinion on the conservation of gas blocks is that this is economically and otherwise difficult to justify. However, the decision on the fate of TET was taken by the owner, HSE, which is managed by SDH. But we do know what these relationships are, that is, the relationship between the government, the ministry and the management of societies. Here she is as the founder and sole associate, and these powers are exercised in SDH; and through the power of the Assembly, the government must not interfere with the management of companies. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u289	Thank you, Minister, for your complementary response. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u290	Thanks for the answer. However, I would like to ask you a little more detail about the termination of operation 1. 8. If I have correctly understood Director RTH, today the situation in TET is such that the contract ends at the end of the year after the regular deadline, as at the end of 2016; but it will be terminated prematurely 1. 8. Here's the thing: Why did this happen? Does that information hold? Secondly, this surprises me, for the last time in this working group, and it is obvious that no strategy has yet been adopted, what is going on with this location at all. Although Rudis prepared some three plans for decommissioning — from conservation of the location to complete decomposition — where the chimney would virtually remain. In this sense, I am surprised that the matter is closed and dismissed by employees who know who have the necessary knowledge of decommissioning before they can accept how to proceed with this facility. This is the core of my question: Why is the contract terminated now if nothing has yet been adopted? Why is this location not maintained as a tertiary reserve and maintained by employees who can decommission during and after this time? Why will a good month from now come to an incision if nothing is yet accepted, how do we proceed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u291	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u292	These are indeed issues relating to the direct management of TET; they are the responsibility of its owner – HSE. I'm sorry I can't handle the details here, because the Ministry is directly involved in these matters, as it is said, it can't and can't do business. With regard to the information that the contract has been terminated prematurely and what Director RTH has here. You mentioned RTH, I don't know if it's a mistake, what role and information it has. I'm not aware of any early interruptions. As it is said, the information is that the contracts for this year are concluded, and there is also a TET contract between these contracts, which is activated at the discretion of the portfolio, in each particular case. The question of decommissioning and decisions on what will happen in this regard are indeed matters that are directly within the competence of HSE, which must decide on the basis of some of its analyses, at which point it is feasible for society. There are some decisions on their part that I cannot actually comment on here, but all responsibility and competence on their part. We, as the ministry, are always and still stand for an energy location to be maintained in Zasavje. Accordingly, we have also sought to find any means, including the operation of the tertiary reserve. Unfortunately, as I explained, there are very few options here. No one can go beyond these commitments of market mechanisms and operations. I think there are really limited options here for what businesses can do in this given situation. But I am convinced that it is trying to do the most to make this liquidation process at least painful for the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u293	Mr Marko Ferluga will address, as the last one today, the question addressed to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u294	Thank you. Good evening to the rest of the last mojicans here that we've stayed. I apologize in advance to the Minister for stealing his time. Thank you also for your understanding, Mr Minister, but despite the fact that this may sound more opposition than a coalition question, I must ask you certain questions. As you know, unfortunately, the previous political games of famous political parties and so-called Blue Managers have created a huge economic hole on the coast. We are left with more or less two large employees, namely Luka Koper and Cimos, both in direct or indirect management. I'd like to ask you both questions today. First of all, I want to know: How does DUTB manage Cimos? Are the guidelines even known? Who will answer if he is, for those advisory contracts with Admetham that were so extreme that they were not really to be trusted? What stage is the sale of Cimosa? Is this Italian fund, which is spoken of in the media, really serious and a customer who has a vision; that it is not again a mailbox? It is clear that all these matters are so complicated that in fact the DUTB is not in any direct jurisdiction of yours. In fact, the Ministry of Finance may also exercise control over this company in accordance with Article 4 of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. It should be said that some documents or information can be obtained from them. Another thing I am interested in, or interest in, the vast majority of people on the Coast is the operation of SDH in the sale of Luke Koper's share in Winoper. Does he have any vision of SDH? Why is this share of Luke Koper in Winoper important in the sale or sale? Regarding SDH, if we know that we have a very clear SDH management strategy, where we have specified exactly what are the criteria, what are the conditions, how and what to guide. This issue is raised because a governance strategy has been adopted in the National Assembly and it is based on this strategy that it has clearly written how and what. I'm not even going to talk about this excitement about the exchange of control councils in Luka Koper. But I will be grateful for all your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u295	Thank you, Mr. Ferruga. Minister Marble, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u296	Thank you very much. On the basis of information from SDH and DUTB, as you said, I can provide you with the following information. Regarding Cimos, which is an important integrator in the development of the production and marketing of automotive components and faces financial sustainability problems for the second time during the period of Slovenian independence. For the first time, this was the end of the 1990s, when the first major restructuring was carried out by means of a compulsory settlement; for the second time since 2008, in the period of the global financial crisis, which had hit the automotive industry badly. The Republic of Slovenia provided Cimos with rescue and restructuring aid in accordance with the European rules on State aid in excess of EUR 90 million. As aid imputable to the State, a decision of the European Commission in 2009 set aside the state guarantees as well as all operations of the Bank’s SID. By transferring business bank claims to the DUTB in 2013 and 2014 it took an active role in the further restructuring of this business system. A compulsory settlement was made in 2014 and 2015, a strengthened management team and a supervisory board and a privatisation process was initiated. Privatisation was defined as a compensatory measure in a decision of the European Commission because Cimos himself is unable to repay as much State aid as he has adopted it. The privatisation process began in August 2015, it is said last year, within three months of the power of enforcement settlement. Business restructuring is taking place in parallel, which has greatly improved the reliability of the supply of large car manufacturers and the quality of supplies. The bids for equity entry into Cimos obtained in the first round were not acceptable and it was therefore decided to extend the deadline and call on tenderers to improve their bids; at the same time, it also looks for alternative solutions. The fact is that customers continue to assess Cimos as a risky supplier due to the complexity of network production and weak funding structure. DUTB and SDH are making great efforts to negotiate acceptable privatisation conditions by further contributing banks as financial creditors to the successful ownership transformation of Cimos. Two advisers were involved in Cimos, as you mentioned. The first is Alvarez & Marshall for financial restructuring and Admeta for business restructuring. With both consulting companies, contracts were concluded with the reconstruction of the Supervisory Board and the administration in mid-last year. Now I'm going to Luca Koper. Luka Koper, d. d., is in line with the adopted Capital Investment Management Strategy. The port of Cyprus is the only multi-purpose Slovenian port and is therefore extremely important for Slovenia as it affects the development of the Slovenian economy and logistics in this part of Europe. SDH supports all business decisions based on investing in the core activity and which increase competitiveness in companies it manages to ensure that the value of the company and its profitability are increased. The Adriafin company you asked about is an associate of Luke Koper. The airport of Koper is owned by 50 % of Adriafin, while Istrabenz owns the remaining 50 %. In accordance with the adopted Luka Koper strategy, the investment in Adriafin was not defined as a strategic investment. Adriafin owns 77.74 % of the company Vinkoper, whose activity is not related to the main activity of Luke Koper. In February 2016, SDH received a letter from Istrabenz Koper, calling on Luka Koper to sell Adriafin together. The letter also stated that there was an interest in the purchase of the 100 % share of Adriafin and therefore SDH reminded Luko Koper of the business damage it might have caused in connection with the sale of this share. Luko Koper also pointed out other options regarding sales procedures. In his letter to Luka Koper, SDH also stated that it does not wish to interfere with the company’s business decisions, as it is the responsibility and responsibility of the company. For in accordance with the Company Act, this company operates on its own and at its own responsibility. However, management must take into account the provisions of the Capital Investment Management Strategy. In any event, SDH is obliged to act as a prudent and economic operator in relation to state companies under its legal powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-13-SDZ7-Redna-20.ana.u297	Thank you, Minister. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 14 June, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 20th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Everybody have a nice night!
