ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Vesna Vervega, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Janja Sluga, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 16 hours away, Dr Milan Brglez between 16 and 18 hours, mag. Branislav Rajić and Mr Marko Ferluga from 16:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister-General and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 14th item of the agenda, the Ombudsman, Mr Vlado Nussdorfer and the candidate for the Deputy Ombudsman, Mr Miho Horvat, to the 17th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the agenda for the meeting, allow me to highlight yesterday's tragic news of terrorist attacks on Brussels airport and one of the stations of the Brussels subway, which again claimed many innocent victims. It is the low and unconscious attempts of those who want to sow fear and panic not only among the people of the European capital, but among all citizens and citizens of the European Union. At the same time, this rejection is also directed against the values of democracy and freedom, solidarity and human rights, so against the values we live in and in which we firmly and still believe. We must not allow these precious fundamental values to be taken away from us, but we must strongly oppose such attempts to sow fear, hatred and prejudice both because of us and our future and because of the victims of this attack. Members and Members of Parliament, I ask that we pay a minute of silence to all innocent victims and express our sympathy to their relatives. [[minutes of silence]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u2	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much, President. In this Parliament, it has become a kind of eluded practice to have a minute of silence every time a terrorist attack occurs in a Member State of the European Union. First of all, on behalf of the United Left, I would like to express my condolences to all those who lost their dearest loved ones in yesterday's attacks in Brussels, and at the same time condemning all such senseless acts throughout the world. However, I must strongly protest this parliamentary practice that we always have a minute of silence only for the victims of the attacks carried out in the European Union. In doing so, this Parliament sends a message publicly that the lives of these people are worth more than the lives of many other victims of the terrorist attacks that we are witnessing every day. This month alone, more than 100 people lost their lives in Iraq in terrorist attacks, and no one cares about them. In Yemen, 15 civilians were killed in a church. Two months ago, Daesh killed between 150 and 300 civilians in a Syrian town, Kurdish villages and cities were attacked daily by Turkish aircraft, and no one talks about it. The National Assembly has never had a minute of silence because we think it's just side statistics. The proposal of the United Left is that today we have a minute of silence for all victims of terrorist attacks, and also that we have minutes of silence not only in cases where the wars that Europe is creating come to European ground, but also when we are asked whether we will participate in these wars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u4	The answer to your procedural question is that you chose the wrong moment to put it. Moreover, the concerns you are addressing at this sad time have been heard. However, I do not intend to impose another minute of silence at this time, because this was a minute of silence for those fellow European Union citizens who did not survive this attack yesterday. We'll continue the session. But I'm not going to decide what this procedural proposal of yours was from a five-way point of view. This will be judged by the people themselves. We are moving on to the agenda of the 17th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Tuesday, 15 March, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present and 77 votes against 1. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda of the 17th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from 35 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes, the reply shall be completed by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. The non-e-club has published an overview of the questions sent to which no answers have been answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We will ask the President of the Government a question about the Government's communication strategy. We come from the idea that the government advocates that the situation in the country is also blamed by the media and those who point out mistakes. Colleagues from the University of Uppsala in Sweden pointed out that governments are using a communication strategy to distort reality and present themselves in a better light than the actual situation in the country. Slovenia in this composition is the forerunner in these matters. If I give you a few examples, we can expose the migration crisis. We have warned both the committees and here in the National Assembly that communication is going in the wrong direction, that Members are not getting enough information. More. There's no communication with the local community. And because of this, the resulting error, the threat and — what is happening on the ground — the resistance of people to such a problem. We believe that timely, accurate and correct information could help calm the situation. It's just that we're asking: What will be the communication in the future, and will we receive all relevant information in Parliament? If I give the following example, this is an example of economic growth. So far, the government has said that economic growth is good, that the situation is good, and that the problem has been the one that alerts and poisons the atmosphere. I think whether you really think on your side, when you say, but I'm in a different position, you're saying that the situation is the fault of the media and those who point out that mistakes are going to fall the gross social product, that credit is going to be worse, that we're going to be in debt harder. If we look at the statistics, we can see quite a few indicators. The European Commission has warned us that the situation is worse than anticipated. Umar's grades are even worse. We do not have economic growth as it tries to show, but gross social product is falling and there is no consumption to raise the economy. So we ask: Is this the fault of the communication strategy or is it not the measures taken to help the economy recover and accelerate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u6	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. When you say guilty of the situation in the country, I see this situation differently than you describe. Last year, this government, together with all other stakeholders, contributed to significantly increased economic growth. And economic growth is stable as it will continue this year. We know that the transition from one European perspective to another is due to the fact that it will be slightly smaller. It is said that the reduction in the use of European funds in the first period and some other matters which I cannot explain here for a short time, but this has been foreseen. We will still have economic growth, we will still have, like last year, an increase in employment, an increase in consumption. Unemployment has also decreased last year, increased by about 20% and a slightly higher percentage of youth employment as part of the overall increase in employment. As you know, all our credit ratings have increased. We have progressed on the competitiveness scale and I simply do not understand what situation you are talking about. The situation is constantly improving. Of course, this is in the sense of a swing, of a month that goes faster, of a month that stops the process slightly. But the trend is for the better, even in reducing the trend of public debt growth, it is also positive. As you know, we are almost certainly with a deficit, we are still waiting for official data, we have managed to get below 3%, we are exempted from the process that has been conducted against us in the context of macroeconomic balance. That is why I think that the communication that the Government is carrying out all the time is very simple. The government doesn't blame the media for this or that. The media are free, of course, within the framework of marriage, and the government communicates to them through the Communications Office, in all ways, through press conferences, via the website, on various visits in the region, through local media, when ministers are going around, and not least very often here in Parliament. With regard to the migrant crisis that you mentioned, you have been here I do not know how many times very carefully informed about everything, since the Government was coming to the meetings of the committees which were therefore convened. Through the questions sent and through the plenary sessions, we provided information. The Office of the Government for Information reported to the entire Slovenian public on a weekly basis, even on a daily basis, what is happening every day. And, look, I really don't get it here. You're talking about some mistakes, threats. From September to today, we had the movement of people, almost half a million people went through Slovenia, there was no security threat, we went humanitarian with migrants, we provided them with everything they needed, the institutions worked, the country worked. So we have, in fact, done well in this crisis, which is recognised by all international factors, either the High Commissioner for Refugees or the institutions of the European Union or the countries around us and also by NGOs, who have been actively involved in the same, because we have engaged many factors in society. This is how we regularly communicated about this, so the world public knew so well that in Slovenia there are no problems that we have succeeded as a state and as citizens who helped and other organisations very well in handling this issue. However, the fact that there has been some kind of spread of fear among people is, above all, due to some, including political actors, who have started to inform people wrongly, as if they were threatening to know what, at a time when there was no threat, when it was absolutely clear that there was no such thing. The government is therefore now stepping up this activity to inform people that the reason for fear is not that Slovenia was and is a safe country and that Slovenia has mastered this migratory flow that you mentioned. Regarding these indicators that you mentioned, I have already said something in the economic field. You know, even the mood in Slovenia is not like that. The latest Eurobarometer survey showed that around 87% of respondents in Slovenia were satisfied with their lives. We have therefore ranked ourselves above the average level of satisfaction in the countries of the European Union. The economic situation of Europe is always seen by Slovenians as more positive than others. As I said, the objective indicators that I counted and which are still very large and are also published on the government's website and many more, we communicated them, showed a picture of us moving forward, and this in a positive direction. That is why I think that communication was appropriate and we never blamed the media for anything that seemed inappropriate to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u8	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you. On both issues, as always, I did not get the answers we always expected in the National Assembly. As far as the migration crisis is concerned, we still feel the lack of communication at the local level, and nothing has improved here. As for statistics, of course, the Government has a monopoly on all statistics and can present those statistics that it wants and that show it for good. So I'm also wondering what the media has been publishing lately: Is this strategy that you are now using a product of what the media are publishing that you've hired an Arih agency? And I'm wondering, how much and in whose name did you hire this agency for, and what's its job? In addition, I would like to point out that you have criticized the media yourself and that both the President of the National Assembly and others have said that you are doing well, only that you cannot communicate in public and that the media report negatively on your work. So I'd like to complete this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u10	The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, has the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u11	Now you have asked quite a few additional questions for this short time. First, if you are talking about the migrant crisis, please tell me where you see this crisis in Slovenia right now. Slovenia was one of the main players, one of the main countries that managed to bring neighbouring countries together to the situation that the Balkan route had been closed and that this intense agreement had taken place with Turkey and the European Union, where we can now hope for implementation. I don't know what kind of crisis you're talking about right now. Of course, the migrant crisis is present in a wider Europe and the world. But if Slovenia has done something, it has done a great deal to address this crisis in our country and in the wider European Union in Europe and in the Western Balkans. You're saying nothing's gotten better here. On the contrary. All the policies we are pursuing are humanitarian, solidarity and we are constantly concerned that security is ensured. Actually, it's okay all the time. And some talk about what needs to be improved, please tell the police, tell civil protection, the military, volunteers, NGOs, where to improve their work. I think they did a great job on it. As regards the communication agency Arih hired it for its communication activities by the Modern Centre Party and not by the Government. As President of the Government, I can only ensure that the Government is using its services to communicate with the public, I would say, while this communication agency is something quite common. In fact, each modern customer has someone who helps her with what is called a pyar, a communication strategy. This was also done by the Modern Center Party. For more details of who we are working with and how, everyone can contact the customer and get the right answers so that I do not see any particulars here. With regard to the attitude towards the media, see for sure the media reports sometimes positive, sometimes negative, so critical, benevolent, whatever. The government's work is very clear, we need to do our work well or best to communicate it to the media or the public in the best possible way. From here on out, we adapt to the situation. If we find that some of our news does not penetrate the media, then, of course, we need to improve the reporting strategy. It is, however, a fact that sometimes certain news about what the government is doing does not come in time and good enough or widely enough to the media, as the government would have wanted, so the government is trying to use all the channels available to it that are acceptable and normal in the democratic world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u12	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you. In view of the above, I propose that this topic be discussed in the National Assembly. We could talk more about investigative journalism, which is a problem in Slovenia, because journalists are hard to come by. The Government's communication is weak, especially as you mentioned, in the area of police cooperation. We know that police officers are difficult to deal with, especially now that they are very burdensome in their work, and this communication has been very weak, even more under-appreciating towards the police at the points of the negotiations. Of course, then those anonymouss broke out, and the government responded very quickly to the anonymists about it as if it were a coup if we stopped the minister. On the other hand, she did not respond to anonymous women who revealed a similar activity at a higher level. It is said to be an uneven treatment, once these communications are quick and very determined, and the second time these anonyms are not taken into account at all. We expect the same treatment of both the coalition and the opposition. Once again, I would like to point out that the opposition throughout the process of detecting migration problems and others lacked sufficient information, as we have always pointed out in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u14	Dr Bojan Dobovšek on your proposal will decide on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u15	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! More than 35 people were killed yesterday in a series of related terrorist attacks in Brussels and at least 200 injured. In the face of this terrible human tragedy, it is not enough to express our condolences, and we must do our utmost to ensure security for all Slovenian citizens and citizens. The excuses that we have listened to all the time in the past months, that this is something that is far away, that it does not touch us, that we are safe, are now irrelevant, because for the first time in history a Slovenian diplomat was wounded as a direct victim. It is now known that today it is officially announced that some of the perpetrators of this crime, some of the terrorists will come the Balkan route, along with migrants. In the SDS, we have therefore noted more than justifiably that this policy, the European policy of mass acceptance of migrants from a security perspective, is literally suicidal and that an illegal migrant express is something that will return as a serious security boomerang. I'm afraid that's happening now. That the government policy in this area is completely confused, it proved in this House when Minister Györkös proposed in the Asylum Act the only good amendment that was also adopted on the committee, and later on the proposal of the United Left, a newly created far left coalition in Parliament with the votes of the entire ruling coalition against the will of its own minister removed from the law. And the only reasonable solution was in the Asylum Act. In a normal country, in such a case, at least the minister would have resigned if the whole government hadn't fallen. The first to act in order to ensure security is therefore the Government. But the government has still had deaf ears, and now it is really high time for the government to substantially tighten migration policy and the right to asylum for the truly justified, for example, refugees from the war in Ukraine, not for the apparently economically, materially and religiously motivated migrants from the Middle East and Africa. It's a responsibility to history. The right to security also has a development dimension and security will depend on the further development of each country in Europe separately. So at least one thing we should all agree on. The right to security and to respect personal integrity is the right of every citizen and every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. And no right of a foreigner or a foreign country can be over this right. And that's why I'm asking you, Mr. President of the Government: What measures will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take out of its jurisdiction because of the tragedy caused by the terrorists in Brussels – unfortunately it is not the first and unfortunately not the last – to ensure the effective safety of all Slovenian citizens and citizens? Will it, after all, substantially tighten its policy on migration and asylum?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u16	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. Let me repeat for myself what the President of the National Assembly has already said today, and in some ways you have briefly summarized the issue in your question. This terrorist attack in Brussels is not yet the first on European soil, but, of course, the attack on the very core of our European values is an extreme act of rejection and comes from some totally unacceptable perception of the world, from some evil that we must reject in all ways. Of course, not every terrorist attack or security threat can be fully and directly linked to these or those migrations. For example, you said that this attack was caused by migrants who came along this so-called Balkan route. "Some too," you said. The word "audience" already says something more. As in Paris, where it also happened, we know that last year's serious terrorist attack was attended by people, i.e. perpetrators who were actually born in France or Belgium. They were the second or even third generation of immigrants. So this points to what? It points to some additional problems related to migration, particularly in the area of integration, in the area of a culture of coexistence, value education, common values and so on. But the government certainly does not and will never underestimate the questions you are asking on the ground, the issue of security, the personal integrity of our citizens, as well as all those who come to Slovenia. We must be and remain a human society, and we must be a society that guarantees our citizens, as well as everyone else who is here, some human dignity, human rights. We must do all these things in accordance with international law, the Slovenian Constitution and legislation. Everything we have done so far in relation to migration has been in line with these principles. Let me repeat, we did humanitarian work, and therefore there was nothing that should have happened, in your opinion, as you yourself once said, to build even Slovenia with a fence and not leave any here. No, no, no. We have managed to control the migratory flow, to help people in distress, and to continue to act in solidarity at the same time, which is extremely important, to ensure security. And this continued emphasis on the security element is certainly important, but it is not appropriate that what is happening, when some precisely political actors, not least you, honourable Member, lead to people being called upon to act out of fear, to some hostile mood against migrants in general. Because we need to be aware that there are people among migrants who are very different. Many have really fled the war zone in fear of life, for their human rights. We've got kids, women, vulnerable groups. Therefore, it is important to be very careful how we treat migrants, not to throw everyone in the same basket, but to ensure, as I said, humanitarianism and at the same time security. You said we were looking for excuses to be safe. I don't think the word excuse is appropriate. When I speak in this regard publicly and even now, I state the facts. Yesterday, immediately after the terrorist attack, I launched all procedures to re-check, in the professional round, by experts responsible for this, an assessment of the threat to Slovenia. They found that the threat assessment is not increased, so Slovenia remains a relatively safe country and, of course, needs to strengthen its vigilance, its activities. The police and other competent services do this. They have already worked on migration, and they have strengthened this in relation to this terrorist attack. You know that the police were already yesterday, and they were before, and they will be more present today and tomorrow in public places, where people gather, at airports, at all places where there can be security risks. And I can assure you, especially our citizens and citizens, when I say that Slovenia is a safe country, I do not think about it, but I am aware that every day we must do everything we can to keep it that way, to cooperate with neighbouring countries and to carry out all that we are already doing, to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u18	Mag. Branko Grimes, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u19	Yes, it is evident that two of those who blew up in Paris came along the Balkan route as a migrant. Their leader, Abdellam, came along the Balkan route as a migrant. Since yesterday, the perpetrator from Brussels has proven to have come along the Balkan route as a migrant and four arrested in Germany for the last minute of the prevented terrorist attack have come not only across the Balkan route but all proven through Slovenia, Mr President. So please, refrain from commenting in style that someone is scaring without a connection. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the one who obviously does not perform his task. I kept saying that all that was wrong was that there was no law being enforced, that there was no Schengen, you claimed that there was. And then one day, you said, "We're really going to run the Schengen today from midnight," which means you've been lying to the government all last month. And that is why today we are at risk not only of us, but of the whole of Europe. Last time, a member of SMC Zorčič on TV 3 issued the biggest government secret why we came under such circumstances. And I told you, look, today you're doing what I've been proposing to you for August, and his answer was, "Yes, you really could have suggested this in August, but in August they were refugees far away, and we were all on vacation." And now I'm afraid we're back on Easter Day and we're gonna have the whole SMC on vacation again. This is a very serious matter, and you have too much responsibility to act in the way you behave. What is expected of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a sober and decisive action to stop any further migrant flows, to ensure that all those who are here and all who are not entitled to stay here are screened and sent to where they belong. This is the first thing you have to do to ensure the security of the Republic of Slovenia and then to unconditionally implement all legislation and that this legislation applies to all those located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u20	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Grims, I think that this mocking and insulting tone of yours is inappropriate to the Modern Centre Party and also to the Government. The government, you say, has a duty to take a sober and decisive action. The government has already taken a sober and decisive action. However, I do not know whether it is sober and determined to gather people and scold them against children coming from foreign backgrounds, to wave with some banners there and to frighten the local population, who, since the beginning of this migration transit through Slovenia, has not actually seen any refugee in fact, because we have kept them in safe areas in a suitable and humanitarian way to move the matter forward. So I think that this intentional exaggeration of yours, the deliberate painting of some terrible situation and the portrayal of Slovenia as a country that does not behave well, responsiblely, by law is inappropriate and I reject it. To point out, the government has so far ensured, despite the great migration of migrants, that we have controlled all these migrations, acted humanitarianly, solidarityally and ensured security and registered these migrants. Of course, you must also take into account, as I think that every person who monitors this, that the migrant crisis has exceeded all the dimensions that have ever been present. No 10 times or 20 times the size of a country has been in favour of this migratory flow. Slovenia was in fact the first in the European Union, which, with its constructive proposal, led to the participation of countries on the so-called Balkan and Central European routes, that we have stopped some current here now and that we can start building on this further common European policy, how we will deal with this together with Turkey and at the external borders of Europe. The Slovenian government and all those who have worked with it, the volunteers, the congregations, I would say, NGOs, our citizens of all kinds, I believe that even from your party, many of the volunteers who have worked in this direction deserve all the praise and recognition. And I guarantee that we will continue to act in this direction to ensure that Slovenia remains human, solidarity and, of course, security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u22	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u23	I propose a debate where there will also be an opportunity for the President of the Government to apologize, because everything I have even predicted in the autumn has come true. The issues I have proposed two months ago have been rejected by your coalition in Parliament, such as strengthening cooperation with the Visegrad Group. That's exactly what you're doing today, Mr. President of the Government. This is what you are doing too late and too slow, and therefore Slovenia is in greater danger than it would have been. Such a debate will also be an opportunity to discuss the right of people to decide whether they want to continue to maintain the flow of migrants to the current form in Slovenia or to make this even more limited. Because the country of Slovenia is a common home. And those who live in the home have every right to decide for themselves who they will let into this house or will not. Denial of the right of the people to decide their fate, as you have already foretold, is the first-class racism and arrogance of power. It is also contrary to the spirit of the Slovenian Constitution, which places direct decision-making of the people as a form of the exercise of the authority of the people in the first place. But you once committed yourself to respect law, respect for ethics and respect for democratic principles. This is exactly what best reflects the ability of people to decide their own destiny. Especially because there are some essential elements here. The first element is human security. People have the right to security. The second is personal integrity and consistent respect for human rights, especially when it comes to women and children as the most exposed groups. And the third is a developmental issue, because the sense of security depends on the further development of the country of Slovenia. If Europe goes, and unfortunately everything shows that it will continue in the wrong direction, as it has done in the past months, to strengthen security in some countries, and it is possible to predict in advance that companies will move to areas where people will be safe. And this can also be an excellent development opportunity for Slovenia if we can maintain and strengthen the quality that we had throughout the twenty-five years of our existence. But this requires proper conduct, the end of naivety and the end of the fact that individual themes are only opened and exclusively ideologically. And for everyone, once again, it is necessary for everyone to have the same criteria. If it's refugees from Ukraine or someone else. And he forgets about those, as usual. And that exposes these things as interesting. It is therefore necessary to discuss this in order to avoid double criteria; and [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u24	Mag. Branko Grims, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Luka Mesec, you have the floor to question the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Mr Prime Minister, I will ask you a question about Alpine and the general management of state-owned enterprises. As you know, two weeks ago, on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, on our initiative, we addressed the case of the Alpina of Girov. Another company that's become a hostage of a bad bank. What exactly is this about? It is a company that, as you know, is well-standing, internationally established, at the Olympic Games in Sochi, the athletes in its equipment received as many as sixty-six colossals. The company, however, has problems because of its former owner, who left her with a loan of two-and-four million. And now he's in trouble because he has to pay interest on it. But since we live in a country where obviously the rules do not apply, this owner currently lives peacefully and enjoys Dubai and, on the other hand, a bad bank that now manages the Alps forgives 150 of the 355 employees in the Jury. Which means, in short, the owner of nothing, all the damage he's done, we're gonna put our backs on the employees. And this is happening, Prime Minister, by the state institution – bad banks. Therefore, I believe that you are responsible for an example such as Alpina, both directly and indirectly. You are directly responsible because on this committee that I have mentioned, unanimously, we have adopted with the agreement of the coalition very clear conclusions which impose on you, the government, as a bad bank assembly, that, for the first time, check this contract with the advisory firm in Alpina Admetam, which is leading all of this. Secondly, to provide conditions for the restructuring of the company, which will allow for the retention of all key business functions in Slovenia. Third time to report within one month. But as the employees report, nothing's changed since then. The situation is the same or worse than it was. The restructuring by means of business destruction and closure continues peacefully. And that's why I want to know first: Why didn't you take into account the conclusions of the National Assembly Committee? I want to know: What are you gonna do about the owner? What country are we to be able to charge a company with twenty-four million credits and then move peacefully to Dubai while workers are fired? And the third time: What do you intend to do in general with regard to the policies of the bad bank, because not only in our opinion, but in the opinion of all involved, it is directly unheard of that companies are not being rescued under the cover of restructuring, but are being destroyed in order to achieve their maximum value in the short term and to be sent to the earliest possible privatisation? And this isn't just the Alpine case, it's a lot of companies that own a bad bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u26	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. Let me first explain some of the facts that are important for understanding the problem of the Alpina shoe factory, which is a company in 100% ownership of the claim management company, i.e. DUTB, a bad bank, as you said, where the company went into DUTB on the basis of a forced settlement. The DUTB developed the concept of financial restructuring and implemented a compulsory settlement that was concluded a year ago, converting almost EUR 12 million of secured and unsecured claims into capital. Furthermore, DUTB provided liquidity and financing for the operation of the Alpine by providing EUR 3 million of credit to the company under favourable conditions and by triggering the necessary business restructuring process. On 13 March this year, the government took note of a written explanation concerning the implementation of the restructuring programme in Alpina and the advisory agreement concluded with Admetam business consultants. But here I must point out that the Ministry of Finance, under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, is indeed competent to exercise control over the functioning of the DUTB, but in this context the Ministry can only give bad banks, i.e. DUTBs, to general abstract guidance, which must not provide guidance on individual cases. This is where you even apostrophe the government. See, if the government were to now solve directly each company, then that would mean direct policy interference. We have done just now in the last year and a half, two, to go to these modern normal trends in the market economies in Western democracies, where politics withdraws from the economy and where it is actually left to the competent institutions to manage such processes according to professional criteria. Therefore, the Government, as the DUTB Assembly, may adopt some principled guidelines, may amend or propose amendments to legislation and other legal acts, but the Government cannot directly resolve an undertaking. But there will be no doubt, even as Prime Minister of the Government, I believe that our common objective with the Alps must be first integrated restructuring, then maintaining key business functions and as many jobs as possible at the site in Žir. Furthermore, ensuring the competent management structure and not only the survival, but also the further development of this company, the Alpine, which I agree with you, is a very successful internationally recognized company, as a brand of our pride, but unfortunately in a business context it is actually in a difficult situation. The government has identified itself to this issue and, pending further restructuring procedures in accordance with its competence, assessed the DUTB ideas, successfully carried out the current phase of the financial restructuring of the Alps, but that, at the same time, final financial restructuring will be difficult and long-term, taking into account the fact that the entire financial debt of the business group is as much as EUR 32 million. The key problem of Alpine is this financial debt, the largest part of which is in the roof company itself. If it is found that, of course, other authorities are responsible, not the Government as such, that the owner to whom you read all these acts is, in any case criminally or otherwise, legally responsible, the competent authorities will act reliably. But that's not the government's job. The government cannot carry out the tasks of the police, the prosecution or some authorities. This is the responsibility of the Ministry and within it of these services. Let me add that the essence of the restructuring led by DUTB is precisely that this financial restructuring must first be carried out, and business restructuring must follow. In view of the fact that this is an over-indebted undertaking, it is also important for such cases to have ownership restructuring, in which creditors convert their claims into equity relations. Only such procedures could guarantee the long-term sustainability of the company, which is likely to be the objective and should therefore be continued with this business restructuring of the Alps, as insolvency would again threaten the company. The government wants to, I said that the company would succeed, that the DUB would succeed and, of course, always do what it can in accordance with its competences, but this is the competence of the immediate DUTB and all the others involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u28	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you for saying that again. I expected your answer, but of course I'm not happy with it. You're saying that according to ZUKSB, the Ministry of Finance only has supervisory powers. Even if that were the case, you should carry out this control on your own after receiving a call for help from employees. See, in Gire, Alpina is the last great employee, and there will now disappear 150 jobs under the supervision of a bad bank, in cooperation with the company that literally exhausts Alpina, to draw EUR 70,000 each month for this advice. I think it's enough to call for help that the Ministry of Finance has to act on its own initiative here. In particular, it should have reacted when all these decisions were taken in the National Assembly. It is not true that you only perform supervisory functions. If we look at just a few cases. The government has repeatedly intervened, according to Dusan Marble, because DUB is a company with single management, including other functions of a bad bank, not only does it control. For example, the government has decided to transfer Sava to SDH, the government has decided that a bad bank should not sell shares of electricity companies on the market, but directly to the Republic of Slovenia, you have made a similar decision regarding Sava Re shares and so on. In short, you've decided on purely business matters. And here, when it comes to the fate of a company in a socially endangered place, I think we cannot possibly be satisfied with the answer that you are not responsible for this. That's the first thing. Second thing. You have received clear instructions from the National Assembly, and I ask you again: Why didn't you take action on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u30	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you. I'll fill in for a little while. The Government has indicated that the DUTB must conduct restructuring procedures in order to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the company and to maximize the value of the assets taken. My colleague, honourable Member, the government has done everything in its power here and the Ministry is also trying to help here within its powers. But, you know, the easiest thing to do is to promise some people, which isn't real, which is not legal. And I warn again, the government is trying, it is warning that this matter would be solved in the interests of the workers, in the interests of the company, that this important company and brand should remain and continue to be successful. But all those who walk around and promise this or that do not actually make promises that are realistic, so the government is concerned with their responsibilities. You mentioned, say, the Sava case, the Sava transfer. There the government had to react because the State Investment Management Strategy explicitly established that it was a strategic undertaking and it was necessary to react urgently to move this issue into the SDH framework which was competent in that area. Otherwise, the government does not interfere, as I said, with direct business policy or with what you are instigating. This is the jurisdiction in this case of DUTB and the competent authorities in the Alps and others themselves. I should also like to say that, in fact, this trend, which the Minister of Finance has already pointed out, that the National Assembly is now very often dealing with individual companies, gives an impression in our and in the foreign public that all these economic matters are being politicised. And that's not good. We have just established a system and a government in this work intensively to maintain and operate this system as it needs to. This is a corporate governance system where politics must not be directly involved in the economy. They can't bring parliament or the government directly to solve some companies. For this we have competent professional institutions, experts from the economic field, from the financial field. Only competent ministries, as they say, can then monitor and take action within their respective functions. I assure you that through the Ministry, the government will continue to do and do everything in its power to help, as far as it is in its power, that this company will be revived and that it is moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u32	Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you for saying that again. I propose that the response of the President of the Government be discussed because we cannot be satisfied with the answer. More than 300 employees in the Alps, two former directors, a municipality, a local community, all said in one voice: "What is happening in the Alps is unacceptable. There we have the company Admetam, which is exhausting, destroying jobs, moving production in an entirely unnecessary and completely inappropriate way." And this is where the government, as a community of bad banks, should react. Look, Prime Minister, we spend hundreds of thousands of euros each year in this country for startups to try to encourage the creation of some distinctive brands. But in these cases it's the creation of some distinctive lottery brand. We have a chance, say, one in a thousand, that some brand from some little startup works. That is why it is all the more important that we do exactly what you have now shown to us that we must not – that those brands that we have, which are internationally identifiable, control 70% of the world market in certain segments, defend specifically companies operating in socially vulnerable areas such as the Jury. Once again, this is a company with a 75-year tradition that has survived with enormous rejection by employees who have been kept awake by those employees in the worst times. But now we have a state institution where your government is a congregation, and this assembly is obviously closing when a bad bank is simply destroying this company or moving it to another country. That is why we need to discuss these matters. The other thing we need to discuss is when I ask about the owner what you're going to do about him. We cannot be satisfied here, either, with the answer that the competent authorities will take care of this. You promised in the coalition contract to investigate the reasons and responsibility for the bank hole that was created in Slovenia. The 42 million euros in debt that Alpina has and has been transferred to DUTB is part of this bank hole. In 19 months, the government has not prepared a law on systematic investigations, let alone conduct an investigation into any of the projects. We could start at the Alpina, be a good start. I therefore propose that this matter be discussed. Because it's not just the problem of the Alpine from the Jurassic, but it's a general problem of companies that have landed in the hands of a bad bank, because obviously we've allowed this bad bank to become private, I'm going to say, bad luck for financiers who exhaust and destroy companies instead of saving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u34	Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much, President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Yesterday was a very sad day. Not just for Brussels, not just for Europe, but for the whole world. Woe, cowardice and insolence, in the form of terrorist attacks, have once again, as has been the case, crippled lives and, at the same time, interrupted the innocent lives of the victims. Terrorism around the world is not some new phenomenon, but it is a historical fact, which we often do not realize, until we also feel it in our immediate vicinity. Evil terrorism spreads across all continents of the world, and in recent times it is virtually no longer a week without at least one part of the world reporting a terrorist attack with fatalities. In this sense, Europe was, in fact, up to a good year ago, a kind of zone, still a tampon where these terrorist attacks did not take place and did not take place. However, this is no longer the case since 7 January last year. During this time, eight terrorist attacks were also carried out in Europe, with about 200 fatalities and about 600 wounded. Even though these events do not happen in our immediate vicinity, in the light of what happened yesterday, I wonder: In what way did the Slovenian government respond to what happened yesterday? How does the Slovenian government generally respond to the so-called terrorist threats? In this sense, what is our approach to addressing these current acute challenges of modern times in which we live and which it seems that they are not some sort of one-day phenomenon or extraordinary phenomenon, but even something that will potentially become an integral part of our everyday life?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u36	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for this matter. Yes, we have responded in various ways to these tragic events in Brussels. First of all, with great regret that there have been casualties, injuries, fears, feelings of some powerlessness against, as you said, reprisals. At the same time, we must also call for greater insistence on European values, democracy, tolerance, human rights, solidarity and, above all, peace. In this context, Slovenia will continue to be together with all those who fight evil, who therefore go beyond the belief that it is ever justified to use evil against man for certain purposes. No political objective excuses violence against human beings and even less terrorist violence, to such terrible things. Of course we also, and I would like to repeat this here, express our regret that in this attack a Slovenian citizen was also wounded, that our citizens were also close to the events. But this is about human destiny as such. Slovenian, Slovenian, of course, every human life must be treated as equally precious, so this must be highlighted. At the political level, we have given our support to all countries, to all policies that are against it. We are also part of these anti-terrorist coalitions against violence. I've called, like I said, this morning experts have accepted a threat assessment. So I repeat, Slovenia is not further threatened directly because of this act, but all our authorities from the police to the various services are much more alert, much more active all these days. Also yesterday evening, at my initiative, the secretariat of the National Security Council met again to further examine all aspects of the potential threat to Slovenia and beyond. As you know, our competent services have been working more intensively with the competent police, intelligence and other services of neighbouring and other European countries all the time. All our ministries have been activated where they needed to be. For example, today, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia meets to protect civil aviation, which will assess what measures are needed at the airports and in relation to summers to further ensure security in Slovenia, as well as for those travelling from and to Slovenia. Let me say that, in all this, it is very important that, in spite of all this, the Ministry warns, not only of this event, but also of all other similar events, but also of the migration crisis and other similar things, the Ministry warns, the Government also warns of values and that children already need to be taught about the culture of peace, about human rights, about overcoming some xenophobic feelings, and so on, particularly in schools – and on this in particular, are encouraged by such measures – to learn about tolerance, about the culture of peace, about human rights, about overcoming some xenophobic feelings and so on. It is true that in the event of such threats and attacks, all security and other forces must be activated in order to prevent this from being prevented in advance, even if necessary. But what will lead us Slovenians and Europeans forward to some normal, successful, democratic society, social society, patient, so that we can have no borders between us, where we have a cultural, political participation, only a higher culture of understanding, that we are all people, that it is not an important color of skin, origin, religion and so on, but that we must all cultivate these common democratic values that bring us closer together, not separate us. That's why I think it's particularly important that I sum up the position of famous expert Branko Lobnikar, who says, "We have fugitives because of terrorists and not the other way around." We must not just consider every migrant or refugee as a potential terrorist now. This can happen here and there. Yeah, there's a danger. But in the vast majority of cases, they are people in distress, and they need help. Of course, they must also understand that we in Slovenia, we in Europe have some of our capacities, integration capabilities, which we must all take into account together. So in the educational field, in the political, security and at all others, through ministries, through institutions, the government is active and, above all, within the framework that I have instructed, and in others that I cannot explain at this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u38	Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much, President. Prime Minister, I think you have, in fact, highlighted in your response the red thread of all these phenomena that are happening around these terrorist activities and attacks. And that's impatience. The intolerance that this physical form actually manifests through terrorism in the worst form, and in this physical way also manifests itself through the organization of various meetings, which have strong potential hostile intentions in themselves, in the way they unfold. On the other hand, intolerance, which is actually shown at the symbolic level. On a level we can't see, we can't catch her, but we can feel her. From this point of view, I am also interested in: How do you see and how do you respond, how do you think about this symbolic level of intolerance, especially the part that we are, I fear that even in our country very often receive one of these, I would say, subtle, but at the same time obvious, the way that appears through hate speech? This shows that, instead of acting responsibly and constructively together against evil, against intolerance, this hate speech is simply a fire to riots and some general intolerance in society with some purpose, which is not actually the purpose of some state-of-the-art action in this particular case, but primarily with a view to obtaining some personal, such or other advantages and points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u40	Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. In short, I would say that hate speech is one of the worst forms of expressions of intolerance. In fact, he also expresses some of his own uncertainties, sometimes hardships. So, too, it can sometimes be understandable for simple people who may not have much information. However, this is no excuse at all, but it is even less justifiable when the hate speech is given by anyone in politics, nurtured in the intellectual world between the educated or the leading staff in society, that is, among all those who must be exemplary to all others. Look, our government isn't indecisive. The government is extremely determined. That is why we have also ensured all this time in the face of the migrant crisis and in all these actions the security and normal functioning of the country. But being determined does not mean that you must be angry, hateful, or anything like that. No, determination is one thing, respect for diversity, tolerance, humanitarianism is another. And that is why it really seems very important to me that all the politicians, all the educated in society with their own example, and then also by calling on others, set a good example for the citizens. Let us be human, help one another as we help one another by helping the poor, by helping in various floods, by other calamities, by sicknesses, and so forth. The Slovenians know that. Let's talk a lot, spread fears that are unfounded, but when it comes to security, let's be firm, but not primitive, determined. Let us do what the law allows us to do, as it is right to protect ourselves, the country, the property, and at the same time not to hurt anyone who does not deserve it. I think that this is a very important topic, especially for politicians, we are primarily responsible for setting a good example here with our performances. I hope that it will increasingly prevail in our society that all the educated, teachers, intellectuals of all kinds and everyone else will take over this mentality. This is the political culture, the common culture of life, which we need a lot to move society forward with those values that we have committed ourselves to with our constitution, with our own country and our own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u42	I thank the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the answers provided. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 14th, 15th and 16th meetings of the National Assembly. First, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will answer the question of Dr Franz Trčko regarding the involvement of the union and the non-coordination of the work of diplomatic representations.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u43	Dear President, honourable Members, I wish everyone a nice greeting. Mr Trček asked me some questions about a former official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who had been transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Space. First of all, I would like to explain that more than 640 people are employed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that they are responsible for the work of the relevant professional services, so I will also answer the questions raised on the basis of the material prepared by the professional services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The honourable Member of the Commission, Dr. Trček, is clear to me on the question of the Member of Parliament that, I will quote, "he is seriously attacking trade union rights or violating fundamental rights of employment." These findings, of course, have no legal basis, are unrealistic, and neither do they. I have never violated international conventions and have never prevented the union from freely selecting its representatives. It is true that the Convention of the International Labour Organisation provides that workers' organisations may freely choose their representatives. At the same time, it argues that the International Labour Organisation Convention provides that the national law may also identify types of workers' representatives who are entitled to special protection under this Convention. In Slovenian legislation, they are only trade unionists, but not members of other trade union bodies. Initially, I should like to clarify immediately that the public servant mentioned was a member of the Executive Board of the Union of Slovenian Diplomats. Mr Sikošek, President of the Union, who is also among us today, I welcome him, obviously knowingly accompanying the meetings of the National Assembly, as Minister, he informed me that he had appointed the Union of Slovenian diplomats of a public servant as a union confidant on 6 May 2015. This is said to be two days after a copy of the Annex to the Employment Contract was delivered to a public servant who was transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Space. It also follows from the application received by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the Court — to say that there is also a legal dispute before the Court — that a public servant should be appointed two days after receiving an annex to the transfer to another Ministry, to be appointed by the members of the Executive Committee for a Trade Union Trustee, although they do not have the right and authority to do so under the statute of the Trade Union. In fact, we are wondering if this is what may have involved the right of membership to freely appoint its representatives, particularly unionists. In the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the appointment of a trade union officer after the submission of an annex to the contract for the purpose of relocation is also an obvious attempt to abuse the Union Trust Institute under Article 207, paragraph 2, of the Labour Relations Act. It is an attempt to prevent the unwanted relocation of a colleague who, by his office as a member of the executive board of such protection, cannot even enjoy such protection. The right to special protection is enjoyed only by the President of the Union of Slovenian Diplomats, as a union confidant under Article 205 of the Labour Relations Act or as the first known union trustee. So also after the notification of appointment [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u44	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. Thanks for the answer. I've been waiting for him for a while. Since I have relatively little time, look, Mr Karl Erjavec, you are not the only other most experienced Slovenian policy, without which it is not possible to establish coalitions since 2000, as you said in the interview on Saturday before the elections, you are also a lawyer. You have started your career at the Ombudsman's Institute, and you know very well that what you have now said relatively vehemently and somehow also taught the union a little bit is not true, which will also prove to be in court. I'm not going to mention convention number 87 again. As a lawyer, you know what it says in Article 8 of the Slovenian Constitution, etc. In short, in the case of the Golob, it is also a question of how to protect a whistleblower that points to some problems in the department. We discussed this in a long and wide session, where there were more burks than serious debates about the problem in Mladika, when we were interpreting you. On the other hand, we can also ask ourselves why an educated diplomat who, after all, was given some money moves to some Ministry of the Environment and Space, is being rejected by Peter’s principle, so that he can regulate some legal matter there, if I say a little harshly. It also points to a kind of, kind of, weird relationship. After all, I am not Mr Golob's lawyer, but I believe he will successfully challenge the state and your Ministry of relatively high amounts again. And I'll pick it up later.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u46	Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Viktor Erjavec, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I must say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not accept the self-labelling of a public servant as a whistleblower. We have checked this with the Anti-Corruption Commission and it does not have this status. It is true, however, that a public servant as a whistleblower was particularly pursuing his own private interest. We do know, however, that the elements of whistleblower are particularly in the pursuit of public interest. Most of the reasons for the public servant’s failure to draw attention to the alleged irregularities in the procedures for the selection of diplomats to jobs abroad, where he is a candidate. His statements on applications for job offers, of infamous rumours that a single seat is reserved for a particular candidate, of course, do not hold. At the last meeting, I explained how complicated the procedure for appointment to the ambassadorial post was. It is interesting, however, that we are also dealing with the constant discreditation of anti-candidates and the attempt to have an illicit influence on those who decide on these matters. That public servant has brought criminal charges against at least eight staff members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or has brought civil disputes related to his working disputes at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. According to information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in all these proceedings, the charges of a public servant were dismissed or rejected as unfounded. However, I must say that the relocation institute is governed by the Law on Public Servants and is designed to realize the possibility of rationally exploiting existing capacities to carry out the tasks of the authorities. This staff member is a graduate lawyer and his expertise has been highly desirable at the Ministry of Environment and Space. One of our tasks is to try to distribute our work in the public administration in as rational and efficient a way as possible. So let us leave the matter to the court, let the competent court decide the matter, and then we will see how things stand. But I don't think the National Assembly is the kind of place that solves this kind of problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u48	Dr. Franz Trcek, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u49	Of course I'll take this opportunity. Look, anyone who has now listened to this ping-pong between me and Mr Karl is likely to have taken advantage of the relocation institute, because some liquid person in your ministry went to your liver, very domestically speaking; justifiably or unjustifiablely, there are indeed some other authorities involved. Of course, it is a national assembly, especially the role of the opposition in opening up such topics. After all, in some too long "Zuzifani" human resources-based country across many sectors, a person would expect someone who is trained as a lawyer and as a diplomat to do what he does at the departmental ministry. You mentioned KPK, the aggregate state of the KPK, we know. If they come to a meeting when we watch these three people put their faces together, it's already clear what time it is. It is also in the public interest that some educated people we teach also perform their tasks. That they're whistle-blowers as necessary. But from this argument of yours, it has been typical, as this country has been doing for 20 years, how to look at someone you've been banging, not looking at the well-intentionedness of a whistleblower. However, you have not answered at all the second part of my question, which referred to the poor, insufficient coordination of diplomatic representations with Mladika, in particular in certain statements. Here, in particular, I am thinking of Mr Kacin, who, somehow because he was handling the matter with regard to the current European Commissioner, gave him the post of Ambassador concerning NATO, which, as I have already said in a closed session on behalf of the United Left, is not appropriate. This proved to be the case when the Russian aircraft collapsed, which briefly entered the Turkish space when, of all the ambassadors in NATO, Mr Kacin commented the most vehemently. At the same time, Mr Kacin, as Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia, tells us from the position of Ambassador in NATO, in his own words, that there is a little bit of sense to invest in the military sector and so on. If I were to say to the end, if this really held up, how do you talk about how we get to the diplomats, the ambassadors, then not all of these stunts that we've been witnessing to for the past few years or decades, unfortunately many very quality diplomats you've been traveling to at the same time, and we have to give them a kind word of respect and praise. Yesterday I met one of our top graduates, and she thanked me for commending her in the National Assembly. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u50	Dr. Franc Trček, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Now the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Dark, will answer Mr. Marijan Pojbič's question about the increase in poverty in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for the question. Poverty, social exclusion is one of the pressing problems, so the issue is more than on the spot. If we look at the data, we have a 14.5% rate of risk of poverty at this point in statistics. Of course, all those individuals and individuals involved in this issue are experiencing the severe consequences of this situation. On the other hand, if we rely on the level of risk of poverty in other European countries, it is on average higher than 17.2 %. Of course, there can be no reason for joy, but it is important to say in all this that we are still pleased when, in recent years, during the greatest crisis we have experienced and lived, we have grown dramatically, and now it has stopped. We still have 80 000 recipients of various social transfers, if we consider monetary social assistance, extremely cash social assistance and a security allowance, but this number is currently stable. However, this situation certainly shows that solutions with passive policies, i.e. social transfers, cannot be effectively addressed; jobs, jobs are key. They are important here within active employment policy measures. With new European funds, the target will mainly be the long-term unemployed, the most vulnerable, the uneducated, the elderly and the young. However, it is also important that social activation programmes prepare these long-term recipients of financial social assistance in general to be included in active employment policies. Now, however, it will not appear that we have done anything or done anything in the past years, if I may say so, in 2013 you adopted in the National Council amendments to this social legislation, partly in the autumn of 2013, in part in January 2014. The changes were mainly directed towards single-parent families, a higher child allowance, extraordinary monetary changes in this area, financial social assistance, how the child supplement is taken into account. In short, something has been done, about 21 million more funds have been made. In 2014, among the first to be approved by the European Commission, we adopted a programme in Slovenia to introduce a fund to help the most vulnerable. From 2014 to 2020, it will be allocated together with Slovenia's participation of 24 million euros for food distribution through the Red Cross and Karitas. In 2015, so last year we carried out a package of aid. It was threefold composed: debt write-off, a million nine hundred euros has been written off to the most vulnerable, and we have introduced for the first time a pilot housing project for extended families. Previously, it was only within local communities. We know that there are significant differences. Banks, together with the Ministry of Justice, we are amending the Law on Enforcement, we are no longer charging enforcement and we are no longer withdrawing funds for financial social assistance. In 2016 we released social transfers, cash social assistance will rise from 270 to 288 euros. The release of the fifth and sixth classes of the children's allowance, state scholarships were re-received in 2013 and now the fifth class, with an additional 3 000 218 scholarships. Father's leave, five extra days. Subsidy for lunch is significantly higher. This year, social activation programmes are being followed on the basis of European funds. However, it has been agreed for a long time and is in the process of implementing the reorganisation of social work centres, which is crucial for more social work with the vulnerable, for social work centres to be able to return to the field and find out where those problems were and work actively with them. Finally, there is a change in social legislation, informational calculations that will go in the direction of simplification, as well as the elimination of those greatest shortcomings in social legislation. So it is difficult to say in this area that nothing has been done in the past. However, at the time of the fall of GDP by more than 9% in 2009, it is expected that people will not feel this, although I am conscious of the fact that, especially in 2013 and others in this area, I have done everything I can to ensure that the funds that have always been difficult to measure have been put to the best possible extent for social transfers. And also the data of the European Commission, if you look at Slovenia, as much as we do to reduce the risk of poverty and how effective we are in distribution, we are among the better countries in the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u52	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. What has now been heard really looks like some glory of this great government. Not just this government, including the previous ones, the ones where you were sitting as a minister and running this department for a job, for a family. You said burning is a problem of poverty. But even more pressing the problem is that poverty is rising and that the information 14.5% according to my personal assessment is far from the real number that is actually real. And here I have one thing from the Movement of OPS, where it says who is a violation of human rights in the event of poverty. And he's going to quote you on what's written here, and it's the right thing to write it down. Only a few known figures that you can check on the Internet, which are related in one way or another to victims of violations of fundamental human rights due to poverty in the independent Republic of Slovenia: "107,000 488 unemployed, 290 000 people under the poverty threshold, 150 000 to 250 000 registered alcoholics, over 4000 homeless, 290 000 hospitalised stocks of people, 525 thousand 206 thousand prescriptions for anti-depressants, 448 suicides, 160,000 recipients of the Red Cross, 54,000 recipients of social assistance, 410 thousand people at risk of social exclusion, 206,000 pensioners at the threshold of poverty, 48 thousand recipients of the minimum wage..." and so on. I think that this information is so alarming that what you said before is nothing against what I've read to you now. I'm asking you: What will you do as soon as possible to ensure that the statistics do not continue or begin to calm down?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u54	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Look, in all systems of modern capitalism, if you want, we have, unfortunately, people who are excluded from the labour market, people who fight at the edge of society, and the question is redistribution by social policy. In fact, the market system that works and if you look at countries that are much richer if you look at the gross domestic income that they create, unfortunately they have a level of risk of poverty that is internationally comparable – both for Slovenia, Germany, Spain, any European country and calculated in the same way – significantly higher than ours. But the fact is, every single individual, every number you've listed is a problem for yourself. But the question is, of course everyone would like to see that there is no poverty among us in society, that we all have jobs, but you will not believe, even in socialism we have unemployed persons, even in socialism we have had poor people and homeless people. It's a reality, I'm afraid. It is a policy to divide what we create in a just and agreed manner among those who need help most, to create the conditions for everyone in the labour market to cooperate in accordance with their capabilities and opportunities. And that's the key. To think, however, Mr Pojbič, that we will solve all the problems and that we will not have unemployed persons in Slovenia is unfortunately unrealistic. The question is whether the measures we have are doing this in a sufficiently effective way in some real situation we are in. If Slovenia has faced a fall in gross domestic product, if we have had an increase in the unemployment rate as we have had, and if we have done so at the same time with measures that we have targeted primarily at the most vulnerable, or if we have done so effectively enough. Of course, on the basis of these figures, you can say that we are not, and on the other hand, in the international context, countries with a similar crisis as we have had, in the degree of risk of poverty, are significantly worse, and the figures you mentioned before are much higher. Slovenia is still among the countries with the lowest risk of poverty. On the other hand, look at the European Commission's data on where we are, according to the effectiveness of social policy on redistributive influence, that is, how we successfully reduce the risk of poverty, which would be more than 23% in Slovenia, if we did not have social transfers, we are among the more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u56	Mr Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor for a procedural request to discuss the response of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. It is clear that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose a broader debate on this answer to the Minister. At the same time, I must say that the answers I receive from the Minister are virtually always the same. I simply cannot understand that the government, the ministry and the coalition do not understand the critical situation in this area that I am talking about and that they do not focus on solving the problem or problem where we should do so. And that is to create the conditions for poverty to begin to decrease. But we know where the conditions are being created – when there is higher economic growth and so on, I will not explain, I think the ministry and the minister understands this very well and very well. But nothing practical has happened in this area, except that state-owned companies are still being stolen, that Slovenian workers are being thrown out of their jobs, companies are failing and so on. This is the key collection of quality solutions that has been produced so far by Slovenian political space, this government and all the ministers who sit in this government. But here's what I want to say. Recorders in the growth of authoritarian attitudes of poverty. The proportion of authoritarian positions in our country is growing sharply, while Slovenia is a record player in the growth of poverty, including children. The shift in positions towards authoritarianism to the detriment of democracy has been observed by sociologists in Slovenian public opinion since 2009. Sociologist Dr. Srečko Dragoš of the Faculty of Social Work points out that in the period during which authoritarian positions were widespread, poverty also increased. Among other things, it writes, "...the share of the poor increases with the share of the politically apathetic population." So from what the sociologists have written down here, one thought comes to mind, or those who lead left-wing politics in this society, you lead this purposefully to cause exactly that people would not go to the polls. And to look at, say, the eighth constituency, where there is always the lowest electoral participation, means that it is also the highest rate of poverty. Go take a look from the congregation of Kungota and there to Lendava, Ptuj and the entire area. And then I really wonder what the interest of this government and this left-wing policy is when we talk about the problem of poverty in this society and in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u58	Mr Marjan Pojbič, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will now answer Mr Jank Webra's question about the maintenance and environmental monitoring of the mercury mine Idrija.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I am pleased to have the opportunity to explain this in the National Assembly. In recent days, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's responsibility for the Idrian mine has been distorted in the media. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is not responsible for mining. Mining is based on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Infrastructure. For mining, our ministry will not draw new conclusions for confirmation in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will also strongly oppose proposals that would impose on us obligations that are not in line with the division of powers between ministries. I must recall, however, that last week the Government of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed that the 2014 decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is still valid and must be implemented. This, however, says that Idrija is responsible for the continued maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and for monitoring in the influential area of the mercury mine Idrija, the Public Institute for the Management of the Heritage of Living Silver Idrija, under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u60	Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, President. I would really ask if the Minister could complete his answer. The question is practically already raised: How will resources be provided to ensure that the works that are urgently needed to maintain the mine are carried out, which is threatened mainly by water and monitoring, and all that is involved is really important questions, so I ask the Minister to complete this answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u62	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you. In accordance with the Government Decision, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is solely responsible for providing funds for monitoring the maintenance of the Idri mine. And we've secured these funds. In 2016, we provided 450 000 euros for monitoring the maintenance of the mine. However, the funds mentioned can only be transferred when the work programme and the financial plan of the CUDHg have not yet been submitted, which we have not received so far. That's what you call an heirloom management center. Both documents must also be endorsed by the Council of the Public Institute. I would like to point out that this has also been the case in recent years. However, we have provided temporary funding for monitoring and maintenance in the mine for the period January to April 2016, as we are aware of the gravity of the current situation for employees and the importance of the local environment mine. Last Friday, we announced a payout of €91,000. By the end of April 2016, the Centre must prepare, approve the work programme and the financial plan, which will adequately define the activities of the monitoring and maintenance of the Idrija mine. Only then will we be able to release the remaining resources we have in this year's budget for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u64	Mr Zdravko Restovalšek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, will now answer Mr Jana Mahnič's question regarding the planned exhaustion and destruction of companies managed by the Bank Claims Management Company, such as Alpina Žiri.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u65	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to point out that the DUB is independent in its work. However, this does not mean that DUTB can do anything with the society of which it is a creditor. The Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks thus provides that the DUTB must operate transparently, economically, effectively and effectively. It must carry out both financial and business restructuring. Without the latter, companies are threatened with insolvency in one way or another. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned about whether it is a matter of exhaustion of an individual company, it is critical, but it cannot be defined, since it has set up the DUTB for this purpose. However, as the DUTB Assembly, we keep on the watch over the functioning of the DUTB and the finance ministry has demanded of the DUTB [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u66	It's all right. There was so much time left, given that the question was for the two ministers. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Invalidity for physical impairment since the implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, ZPIZ-2, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. 96/12, is no longer among the rights established by this Act. Its regulation shall be transposed into the rules on the protection of persons with disabilities, which shall regulate the procedures for determining the type and degree of physical impairment. As long as these rules are not enforced, insurers may still obtain the right to a disability, but to a limited extent, namely for physical impairment only, caused by injury at work or occupational disease. The recognition of rights shall take into account the rules in force up to 31. 12. 2012. The problem is that these rules on the protection of persons with disabilities have not yet been adopted and no one knows when they should be. Until then, STIZ does not carry out procedures to determine the change in disability. For some diseases, the disability situation is worsening over the years, such as multiple sclerosis, and therefore, PPIZ should also decide to change the disability rate and consequently to receive a higher disability benefit on the basis of a personal doctor’s role. PPIZ, however, has only been recording all the applications that have arrived for several years, and it does not decide on them until they have adopted the pre-description acts. This is a totally impossible situation which, in my view, is illegal and unconstitutional. Therefore, Madam Minister, I ask: When will the rules on the protection of persons with disabilities be adopted to regulate the procedures for determining the type and degree of physical impairment?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u68	Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Marijan Pojbič, for the question. As you stated, the implementation of the 2012 pension reform excluded from the disability insurance itself a specific insurance risk for physical impairment and the related right to disability or financial compensation for physical impairment. The legislator has decided that the regulation of bodily defects does not fall under the pension and disability insurance system and, in the framework of the previous provisions, it will be necessary to provide for a Minister responsible for health, in cooperation with the Minister responsible for the protection of persons with disabilities, within two years of the entry into force of this Act. The right to disability under the new law can only be granted to the insured person who has suffered physical impairment in the context of injuries at work and occupational diseases. A special working group proposing an update of the list is being set up within the Ministry of Health. Pursuant to Article 403 of the Law on the Pension and Disability Insurance of the Type and the Destructive Rate, the Minister responsible for Health shall determine, in cooperation with the Minister responsible for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities. On 16 July 2014, the Ministry of Health adopted a decision appointing the members of the working group to prepare a draft regulation on types and degrees of physical impairment. The task group did not perform for various reasons. The Ministry announced that a new working group had been set up by 19. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Their job is to carry out these essential tasks by 30. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European So the Ministry of Health has set up this working group up to 30. 6. The results are expected. We have also committed ourselves to this with the social partners in the framework of the signed social agreement, and our ministry is also addressing this issue in the White Paper, i.e. disability insurance, but in fact also in the White Paper, which we have today, a little professionally, but will soon be publicly available, predestined at the Ministry, is actually the basis for these physical defects to be determined by professional diseases. On this basis, we will also go to a differentiated level in the field of insurance for these risks and, second year, we plan to make greater changes in the field of disability insurance at work. However, the basis is that the law you mentioned, which means that the ZPIZ is responsible for the establishment of this framework of occupational diseases at the Ministry of Health. And this working group should deliver results by 30. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u70	Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor to request a complete reply. You don't want to. Okay. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, you have the floor to ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Your ministry recently prepared a conference with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia entitled What will the TTIP Agreement bring to the Slovenian economy? The general message of this conference was that TTIP has positive consequences for the Slovenian economy, but in fact at least two studies clearly show that there will be no such positive economic effects. After one study, these effects will only be seen on the third decimal place and, secondly, Slovenia is included on the tail itself, according to the expected economic effects of the agreement. Of course, trade and investment agreements bring many other aspects of the threat to social, labour, environmental and consumer standards, regulatory cooperation and the judicial system for investors. Not to mention the ones that are most obvious. However, precisely because of the non-democratic and non-transparent negotiating process, the exact text of this TTIP agreement is not known, but a legally consolidated text of the agreement between the European Union and Canada, so-called CETA, has already been published. A study by the Centre for Business Excellence of the Faculty of Economics in Ljubljana showed a simulated cumulative impact on GDP growth of approximately 0.01%, i.e. one hundred percent over a decade. The effects on economic growth will therefore be completely negligible. The argument of growth as a key reason for concluding such agreements with Slovenia is therefore not applicable, but warnings apply both to certain sectors of the economy and to the previously mentioned threats contained in the agreements in question. No critical distance to the TTIP agreement has been recorded on the government's website, which unilaterally represents and advocates TTIP as a great opportunity and completely uncritically repeats the European Commission's promotional records, despite the fact that many studies prove that they simply do not hold these allegations for both Slovenia and the European Union and the United States. That's why I'm asking you: On the basis of the results of the study, has your ministry revised its views on the CETA agreement or will it take into account the results when further defining this agreement? Do the ministries and the President of the Government have a unified position as represented in the TTIP and CETA negotiations? Can we expect the promotional text published on the Government's website to be corrected by presenting these agreements more neutrally, including in accordance with the studies that have been carried out, and will also contain warnings about the many threats posed by trade-investment agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u72	Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u73	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for asking. Slovenia supported the negotiations for the conclusion of the CETA agreement with a view to opening new business opportunities for Slovenian companies in remote markets. The study has shown that there will in fact be no direct positive economic effects and that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will actively take the opportunity to take stock of the opportunities offered by the agreement. Important substantive news, which will be decisive with regard to the actual support of Slovenia for the text of the agreement, brought legal clarification of the text of CETA. Following the example of the TTIP, the entire investment part was amended, which Slovenia considers to be in line with the conclusions of the National Assembly of 17. Seven. 2015 cannot support. The text of CETA is written after legal clearance as an agreement under the exclusive competence of the European Union and Slovenia, like other Member States, stresses that CETA is a mixed agreement, which must also be ratified in the Member States of the European Union, not only on the European Commission, but also on the European Commission. It follows from the provisions of CETA on provisional application that the primary provisional application of the whole agreement is specified. In principle, Slovenia advocates the temporary application of the Agreement, but only in that part which is traditionally and irrefutable within the exclusive competence of the Union, trade, trade-related matters, without investment provisions. Slovenia considers that prior to the adoption of the decision on the signing and provisional application of CETA, those parts of the agreement which will not be provisionally applied should be clearly defined and the text of the agreement adapted to reflect clearly the mixed nature of the agreement. If we agreed to the signing and provisional application of the agreement in the form proposed by the European Commission, this could constitute a dangerous precedent for all other agreements and procedures relating to free trade agreements, while at the same time implying the failure of part of the country's sovereignty and the exclusion of national parliaments from ratification agreements, I am thinking in particular of the matter in connection with the TTIP. The positions of the Republic of Slovenia on individual issues within the framework of the negotiations, as regards coordination between us for TTIP and CETA, are formed from the opposite, based on the progress of the negotiations, following each inter-sectoral coordination with all the competent ministries and other state authorities. Practically all the departments are involved in this inter-sectoral coordination, and their representatives are also members of the so-called fourth working group dealing with trade policy issues and meet regularly. In view of the above, our views on individual issues are also consistent with the views of the competent authorities. In addition, the positions are coordinated with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the exchange of information with non-governmental organisations is taking place on a regular basis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far considered one detailed information on the course of negotiations for the CETA, TTIP and TISA agreements and twice a year the starting points for the participation of the Minister at the Foreign Affairs Council in the format of trade ministers, and occasionally for CETA. We also provide further information on the course of negotiations to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the websites, I can say that, with regard to the publication of the agreement on the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we report that the update of the website of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is ongoing, it is envisaged that a new text will also reflect the established positions of the Republic of Slovenia, which we are defending in the context of the working groups in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ms Tanja Cink, who will ask the question of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u75	Dear President, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! The problem of lack of logopeds and consequently providing adequate speeched assistance to children is generally known in Goriška and is probably elsewhere in Slovenia. We can assume that there is a problem because a sufficient number of logopeds are not available, because the Faculty of Education in Ljubljana conducts a study of logopedia every other year and thus educates not enough experts for this form of assistance. In my parliamentary question, Madam Minister, I turn to you on the basis of the specific initiative of kindergarten in the municipality of Ajdovščina, where I come from. In kindergarten, it is explained that after two school years of efforts and the active search for logoped this school year, this is what is now known in children, because there are many who are just before entering school and who have not yet had the logoped help provided, they should have it. Although the parents were directed to nearby health facilities, there was also no logoped help provided, or there was a very long waiting period. The employment of a logoped in the school year 2015/2016 in kindergarten is regarded as an exceptional acquisition and is not in any way responding to the needs fully because the problem is also the dislocation of kindergarten units at fourteen locations, and so the employment of one logopedo is significantly understaffed. In view of everything I have to say, I am interested in your view of the problem presented, and what do you intend to do in this regard as Minister to eliminate this problem in the long term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u77	Dear President, honourable Member, the honourable assembly! This is a topical issue that is not only related to the development of study programmes, but also to the possibility of moving to the labour market and providing jobs within education and education, as regards the supply of logoped persons and the implementation of all activities. Let me first explain the scope of the development of study programmes, namely, the Higher Education Act itself leaves behind and, of course, allows colleges, as a whole, to decide on the proposed study programmes. The specific study programme you are talking about is described two years, but the number of enrolled and also the scope of the study programme is being upgraded. That is why we have, today, since 2011, when this programme was first re-energized, specifically at the university that you have appointed, 22 graduates. Why is this program special? It is also true that, in line with the analysis we have done in the field of dealing with children with special needs in Slovenia, we have also found that the scope of the speechdesk is not just a speechdesk, including tiflopedagogues and, of course, all the other specialised orientations of those who can also help greatly in the rehabilitation pedagogical grips. To this end, we have also developed a monitoring system within the Ministry, or we will build it on individual employment programmes and, of course, employment at the end. In this case, however, it is not all about the education programme. As has already been said, it is also linked to the transition to the labour market and, of course, to the financing of relevant educators or, in this case, logopedos and tiflopedagogs. What is important, however, is that we encourage on our side, of course, according to the needs that are, and these are very different and regionally, you have mainly addressed the issue of dispersion, which is the fact that it is a dislocated unit, but of course there is also a shortage of these types of profiles in urban areas. That is why we will also encourage the trend of admission to these programmes, but, of course, quality programmes must be provided with appropriate research, study and teaching support, but after talking with institutions, not only in Ljubljana but also in Primorsk, so the University of Primorsk is the one who can carry out a certain part through the inclusive teaching programme, we are of course trying to develop not only the relationship to promoting the development of the registered cities, but also, of course, the transition to the labour market, which is strongly linked, of course, to local communities and the expression of needs within local communities. As far as the whole area of so-called special needs is concerned, especially in early treatment, where, of course, this approach is strongly encouraged and also useful, as you know, we are already developing specific programmes within cohesion policy, and this part will also be involved in addressing the so-called special needs and empowering professional staff within special needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u79	Madam President, thank you for your word. Last week, the whole of Slovenia was deeply shocked by the fact that a 52-year-old patient died in a new emergency centre in Šempetska Hospital because he was given an anesthetic instead of oxygen or a more familiar laughing gas. According to the latest data, a tragic event occurred due to an error in installation, of course, as the supply pipes for oxygen and the laughing gas were replaced. It's more than obvious that it's all about human error, but no one wants to admit it until today. Shortly after the event, the Minister stated that you would not take any responsibility and also claimed that the Ministry had properly led the investment with all the necessary supervisory institutions and in accordance with the legislation. This statement is, of course, in the context of the institution you run and the functions you manage, of course, doubtful, because it is clear that the Ministry was first the contracting authority of the investment and the one who, through the supervisory institutions, monitored the construction and eventually took over the newly built facility. Also, the President of the Court of Auditors, Tomaž Vese, pointed out that in this case the investment contracting authority, namely the Ministry of Health, is also responsible. The head of the champagne hospital, which offered its resignation immediately, also said that the hospital was not an investor and could not bear responsibility for this tragic event. Since the Šempeti Emergency Centre was dedicated at the end of last year, it is also logical to ask how the construction and equipment of other newly built emergency centres throughout Slovenia was carried out, and is it likely that such or similar tragic events will happen again? Dear Minister, I ask you, or I wonder: Is there any investigation into the possibility that someone else died from this error within the three months following the opening of the emergency centre in Gorica? In fact, the hospital director said that they had 9 cases of recovery during this time and were successful in 5 cases. Does the ministry really not feel responsible for the tragic event at the champagne emergency centre? Minister, you signed a decision on the appointment of a project group that has prepared standards, equipment descriptions, a call for tenders and, of course, selected operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister, Lady Mary Kolar Celarc, to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Member of Brinovsk, distinguished other Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Health sincerely regrets the event that took place at the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca in Šempetr, Nova Gorica. However, since the investigation is not completed, we do not want to prejudge the results, so I will explain the following. At the Ministry of Health, we are constantly committed to improving quality and safety, and we encourage all operators to analyse and report on alert, dangerous events and to avoid recurrence and possible damage to other patients. In the case of the construction of emergency centres – as was the case in the case of UC Nova Gorica – the Ministry of Public Procurement selected contractors to nominate their subcontractors. In accordance with the Construction Act, as an investor, we also provided construction control. Regular weekly coordination took place at the construction site, which monitored the implementation of the timetable and the progress of the project. Before taking over the emergency centres, the Ministry of Health has actively verified that the equipment meets the tendering conditions quantitatively and qualitatively. On the basis of the entries of works carried out in the building book, the confirmation by the control and the submission of all relevant declarations of conformity and quality of the materials and works carried out by the Ministry of Health had no reason to doubt the work carried out by the operators. We also selected a supervisor to control the construction and installation parts. And it is the responsibility of the supervisor to monitor the construction work every day. Prior to the acquisition of the usable permit, a special commission appointed by the administrative unit carried out a technical inspection of the facility. In doing so, the contractor had to provide all relevant documents, such as the project of works carried out, evidence of the reliability of the facility and any other official documentation by which the contracting authority decided that the facility was appropriate. The task of the Task Force for Emergency Centres was to monitor, guide and supervise the implementation of the Emergency Centres project, and all experts from different fields, including anesthesiology, surgery, internism and other activities were also appointed to this Council. This included a number of heads of emergency centres. And this project council also approved a single methodology for the creation of emergency centres, which also included the installation of medical and other equipment. This ensured that for all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia the standard of treatment was the same. In the construction of all the centres, the Ministry of Health followed international standards for the equipment of the emergency centres and the applicable Slovenian legislation, which, of course, proves all the documentation. Construction was carried out in accordance with future plans which were an integral part of the tender documents and contracts. However, when the contract was signed, the contractors agreed with the deadlines laid down. The performers completed their work at the emergency centre of Nova Gorica within the contract period, which was at the end of October 2015. While you know that the formal centre started operating on 1 January 2016. Among other things, the hospital was also part of a co-investor. Finally, when all proceedings relating to the event have been completed, when all competent authorities have determined where the error occurred, the Ministry will, of course, act in accordance with its competences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much. In order to complete my reply, I give the floor to Mrs Nadi Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thanks again. Look, Minister, you just said a lot of things that I didn't ask you at all. I expected a little more specific answers to my questions. Among other things, you said that you are very committed to improving quality and safety. Where's the responsibility? Look, as a contracting officer, you're responsible. You're responsible as a contracting officer. And it is right to follow international standards, only I fear that these international standards will not show in any negative sense at other emergency centres. But I'm also interested in: Will you resign from the post of Minister of Health if it turns out that you are responsible or responsible for a tragic event? If it turns out that this tragic event is the responsibility of the supervisory institution, which, of course, accompanied by this construction, how will you act against it? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you very much. In order to complete my reply, I give the floor to the Minister, Mrs Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u85	In the Slovenian legal order, it is very clear what the contracting authority or the investor is responsible for. Have all the institutes review all the documentation available at your disposal. As regards the Ministry of Health, as the contracting authority and the investor, it has performed all the tasks, activated all the necessary supervisors, respected public calls and all works in accordance with the applicable legislation. For this reason, I do not want to speculate, nor to give any judgment, for which we have in this country bodies to determine. Once it's clear who made the mistake, how it is, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask a question from the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Following the meeting of the finance ministers of the euro held on 7 March 2016, Mr Dusan Maramor, the President of the Eurogroup Jeroen Disselbloem, your Dutch colleague, announced that Slovenia must do more to comply with European budgetary rules. In the Eurogroup, it was pointed out that the structural effort to achieve the medium-term fiscal objective in 2016 was only 0.1% of gross domestic product instead of 0.6% of GDP. Slovenia has slipped into a group of countries where there is a risk of non-compliance with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact or European budgetary rules. The European Commission, in its report on Slovenia 2016, which includes an in-depth review of the prevention and elimination of macroeconomic imbalances, inter alia, in Chapter 2.3 Fiscal sustainability predicts, I quote, "that Slovenia will have the largest structural deficit in the euro area next year, with unchanged policies, 2.8% of GDP, with an average euro area of 1.4% of GDP. The structural deficit has actually deteriorated in Slovenia since 2012, while in the euro area it has been constantly improving as a whole," the end of the line. Mr. Secretary, I ask you: With what structural measures will the government implement this year's planned structural effort of 0.6% of GDP? What will be the structural impact of each individual law proposed by the government in the adoption of the National Assembly? Without an assessment of the structural impact of each individual law, we estimate that the structural deficit will not be addressed. Thank you very much for your answers, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble, to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u89	Dear Member, Joseph Horvath. I would like to point out that, with the budget adopted for 2016, a nominal deficit has been planned, the real deficit, which will be reduced by 0.6% of gross domestic product in 2015, according to the 2015 budget, which, in autumn, in view of the calculations made by Ummar and the conversions made by the Ministry of Finance, shows an appropriate reduction of the structural deficit. In autumn, the European Commission also concluded that the proposed budget for 2016 is largely in line with EU rules. I should like to go directly to your question of what structural measures the government has taken to achieve in 2016 this reduction of the deficit required by the Stability and Growth Pact. I will only be limited to certain measures because the total was only 57 for 2015, but for 2016 I do not know exactly how many measures were, but these were key for 2016 and then for 2015, which also had an impact in 2016, as a structural long-term, I would count them for you. So I'll focus on some. The first is the limitation of the maximum level of parental and paternity benefits to 2 times the average wage and extended measures of reduced paternity and parental remuneration to 90% of the base, with an effect of EUR 24 million. Measures in the area of payment of health services to war veterans amounting to EUR 5 million, the extension of measures in the field of childbearing assistance and children's allowances amounting to EUR 11.7 million, the limitation of the awards to members of the SAZU of EUR 0.7 million, increased efficiency in the assessment and collection of public benefits, the continuation of measures to combat the grey economy, work and employment in black and more efficient management of capital investments with a total impact of EUR 170 million, a more effective public procurement of EUR 45 million, a reduction in the cost of public debt financing of EUR 15 million and measures to improve the efficiency and organisational rationality of the public sector of EUR 40 million. At the same time, an important long-term measure was also a sustained increase in VAT rates to 22% and 9.5%, a lower rate, the annual impact of which is EUR 300 million and the introduction of tax rebates with the projected impact of EUR 75 million. These were the measures we adopted at the end of 2015 for 2016. In addition to the above, measures have already been introduced for 2015 with effect from EUR 17 million, the amendment of the Financial Services Tax Act has had an impact of EUR 13 million per year, the amendment of the Insurance Tax Act of EUR 17 million, the reduction of the amount of exemptions for CO2 emissions estimated at EUR 26.5 million, the centralisation of public procurement and the widest use of Module E of the 80.5 million reverse auction, the centralisation of state-owned IT 9 million, the centralisation of the administration of state-owned assets and the rental of EUR 1.2 million, the use of the e-recurrence model of EUR 1 million, the introduction of a full contribution to student work of EUR 58.3 million, the restriction of payments of contributions to non-inhabitable enterprises at EUR 2.5 times the minimum wage of EUR 3 million, the replacement of grants to public service payments of EUR 58.3 million, and the reduction of EUR 11 million to the financial improvement of EUR of EUR 27 million. These are not all measures, but those that have a slightly greater weight. All these measures were, of course, necessary; otherwise, there is no way to reduce the deficit, let's say, 240 million euros. These measures have a longer-term character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. I agree that the effort has been made, I agree that the nominal deficit has been reduced, I stress that we can talk about 240 million. It is difficult, however, for me to agree that all these measures, which you have systematically listed as structural measures, would be. I don't think so. Everyone probably does not affect our better structure, everyone probably does not affect the increased competitiveness of the Republic of Slovenia, which is problematic, which could be better. And I am also not exactly thrilled that we have reduced the nominal deficit of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 by not giving municipalities as much as the applicable legislation and, as the President of the Court of Auditors has pointed out, and I am not thrilled that we have not actually funded the defence budget for quite some time now as our international commitments do. I ask, Mr. Minister, do you intend, and if, at any time, to apply Article 11 of the Fiscal Rule Act, which first, if the Government, on the basis of an assessment of the fiscal council that we do not yet have, finds that medium-term balance is not being implemented in accordance with Article 3 of the Fiscal Rule Act or, I stress, if the Republic of Slovenia receives a recommendation or call from the Council for a derogation from the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact, the Minister responsible for finance is you, Mr. Minister, to apply the measures laid down in the law governing public finances for the purpose of the medium-term balance of public finances? My question: Are you thinking about using Article 11, the correction mechanism of the Fiscal Rule Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much. In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Perhaps just one brief explanation of the assessments made occasionally by the European Commission was the first in autumn, then the March assessment is based on their winter forecast, then comes in May on the basis of the spring forecast. These assessments of the compatibility of country-specific deficits with the Stability and Growth Pact of the European Commission's accounts on the basis of its input data are very mechanical, with the model. This model has a number of problems and the results are, although if I am taking a bit of a chance because at the Eurogroup meeting it was said that rocket scientists are the ones who did this model, but I would say that this is quite easy and that this model is good for certain countries, but for Slovenia the rocket certainly does not fly, because it adds completely wrong results out. If I just give you an example, this model throws out the potential growth of gross domestic product, it is said that we have a capacity for growth of 0.7% of gross domestic product, when we know that there is a low growth rate in the year we have the lowest growth in recent years, of 1.8%. So if 0.7 is a potential, 1.8 is going to be real, then this model throws out, it's said at home that we have an overheated economy. And since we have an overheated economy, we should make a surplus, practically, that is, a surplus in the budget in order to comply with the rules. Of course, all the indicators show that we do not have an overheated economy. We have deflation, overheated economy has high inflation. We have unemployment, unemployment, which is higher than the long-term level. So there's no pressure here either. We have a huge surplus in the balance of payments. So the model throws out completely wrong data. I have also opened this up to the Eurogroup and eight countries have now signed a special letter to the European Commission because it is similar to them, but for Slovenia the worst is far, we are a loner who is out, saying at home that the model is not appropriate and that we need to talk about it. The European Commission has also set itself the task of rewinding this model and perhaps finding something simpler, perhaps not rocket science, but something that will work better in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, you have a word, a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, I really suggest that the National Assembly decides to hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on this very important issue facing the Republic of Slovenia. I, Mr. Minister, trust you because you explain the methodology, the model, and I'm a little surprised. I am surprised that the whole European Union does not have so much economic and public financial knowledge if you want to set a model, some methodology that we should not be discussing today in the year 2016 whether this methodology, this model, is good or not. This is very surprising, we have set ourselves some European budgetary rules, even national parliaments have adopted legislative packages, but now we see that we have made a mistake, that it is not the right models, that it is not the right methodology. I'm very, very surprised. And I think, colleagues and colleagues, that now is not the time to discuss methodological issues or how much effort should be made and what could be the consequences, such as reducing growth dynamics, reducing job growth and so on. It is now necessary to take into account marriage commitments and to do things simply. In 2016, we need to achieve a reduction in the structural non-nominal structural deficit of 0.6% of gross domestic product. We have all the conditions. And, Minister, today, I repeat, if you do not have support in the coalition for effective structural reforms, look for them in the opposition or in at least one part, you will find them in the right block of the opposition. Just come with the right solutions. Well, there's no reason to delay. And this, Mr Istvan Sekuli of the European Commission, Minister, has been quoting you for the last time, 14 days ago, from the advertising password of Nike, which is just up to it – what you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. The question will be raised by Mrs Eva Irgl to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, last week we met at an event in Ajdovščina where you spoke to the economists and entrepreneurs there, but unfortunately the event wasn't so focused that we could talk more about different topics, and the gold to ask you some questions, so I will ask you some questions today. First, in the Government of Janez Janša 2004-2008, 2012–2013 several moves were made to the benefit of the economy. First, we established a foundation for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, we established a Slovenian state holding company. Then, we increased the incentives for research and development from 40% to 100%, increased the investment incentives from 30% to 40%, and then gradually reduced the company profit tax from 20% to 15%, but then the government of Alenka Bratušek, which came in 2013, stopped this reduction at 17%. Now, if we look at two years of your government, where you judge yourself as Minister, I can say that I am quite disappointed in the economic and financial policy of the Government of Mir Cerar. Since the launch of 2014, you have virtually not taken any measures to relieve the economy financially or administratively, on the contrary, by introducing a bound account book and tax registers you have added to the administrative and financial burden of the Slovenian economy. Not to mention that in all these two years you have not carried out a single structural reform, although of course you would have expected it, not only from you as an economic minister, but from the whole government. I am talking here about labour market reform, pension reform and so on. Mr. Secretary, that's why I'm interested, quite specifically: When and what measures do you intend to take to reduce administrative obstacles and the financial burden on entrepreneurs? All you have to do is talk. It is necessary to move from speech to action. And now you are certainly after two years of rule on the move to show some results. I am glad, however, that you visit Slovenian economists, but sometimes it is necessary to take action to achieve that final goal, which will improve the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u99	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Madam Members, thank you for asking. First of all, I must say that the results of the last two years show that the economy is recovering and that we are recording economic growth, which is above average in the European Union. Secondly, the first concrete result that this Government has achieved is that it has not further burdened the economies, according to plans that have been prepared in previous governments, that is to say, the basic motto of the stop to the new taxes on the economy is largely adhered to. As you know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has placed the strengthening of the labour market among the economic priorities this year, with emphasis on youth employment, the care of state property, where the return of state capital, the development of the potential of tourism and the improvement of the business environment are key. In order to bring the situation of the business environment and the resulting investment climate to a higher level, reforms are needed in the first phase in three areas: the administrative obstacles mentioned, the tax reform and the reform of labour law. In doing so, it must be pointed out that in the last two years we have managed to stabilise the country's economic and political situation, that the state budget is within the framework of the Maastricht criteria, and that we are able to undertake reforms at all. After all, the economy has access to the lowest price of capital in history, but of course there are some problems that the activity of banks at this point is not what they would like. Administrative barriers. The first step is to reduce the administrative barriers that our economy has experienced in a very wide spectrum. Here we are working with the Ministry of Public Administration, where we are preparing improvements based on field experience. As a protector for this area, SMEs will be introduced in June, which will also consider each legislative proposal from an economic perspective, because we do not want to create new barriers. And with new measures, we will have to support and not hinder economies. The next issue is the tax reform, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, but our ministry is actively involved, especially in the segmentation of labour costs. Here we need to increase competitiveness mainly in the higher pay grade or in the payment of highly qualified workers and the most productive ones. I am pleased that in the second attempt, the Government is showing and working in a strengthened dialogue with the economy, because I believe that this is the only right way to reach a common goal and move in this area. I can ensure that our ministry works to ensure that the interests of the economy are truly taken into account this time. In this regard, I would also like to point out that we are thinking about awarding leaders in state-owned companies, because we believe that we must motivate you. We have adopted a strategy for the management of state property, where we demand 8% of the return on capital and believe that the demand for administrations in these companies must also breathe with results, and in this direction we are thinking and working on the upgrading of the Law of Lakhovnik. I would like to make a joke and say this once again, when we reach 8% of the return on state 11 billion capital, we will mainly have all the problems with our budget solved if we share at least 20% of what we will create. The third issue where changes will take place this year is the reform of labour law, because we believe that matters in this rigid labour law need to be amended in a more flexible way, with the aim of obtaining more time-consuming contracts. In short, the data show that the direct link between labour market flexibility and the unemployment rate is the data that can be obtained from all European countries. In short, the economy, we believe that we must allow it to breathe in line with the needs of the market not in terms of seasonality of the labour force, but in terms of long-term orientations. I also believe that this flexibility will also make it possible to reduce to a large extent the cost of working relations, according to agency, espionage and student work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, you have the floor to request a reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Minister, in your reply, where you have read a set of desires, what you would like to see come true, but you are the one who has a stick in your hands and you can pull it off after these two years. But among other things, you said that the government wasn't putting extra pressure on the economy. And I understood this as somehow your success and also the action of this government, but it can't be a measure. Because I wasn't talking about you not putting extra pressure on the economy, but I asked you how you plan on unloading the economy. Unburden the economy. It's an emergency. That's not what the ghost's talking about. I'm interested in these measures, and I'm interested in a clear timeline. You yourself have found out what I have asked you about, among other things, administrative obstacles and the financial burden of entrepreneurs. But there was no answer, you agree with me that this must be done, but you didn't tell me when you were going to do it. And now once again, I ask: When are you going to do that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Zdravek Počvalšku, to complete his reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you for the supplementary question. I specifically replied to you that in the area of administrative barriers in June this year we will introduce an SME test which will prevent the introduction of new rules, so as to impose additional burdens or administrative obstacles on the economy. Labour law is in the Ministry of Labour procedure, the process is being initiated as part of an effort to ensure that all workers are given decent work. On the inside, it is also part of what I told you earlier about labour flexibility and tax reform, which touches on the cost of the labour force in the higher pay grade, the reward of the success of the workers in profit has been launched and will be realized this year, after a failed attempt last year, this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the answer to your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I think it is right to discuss this very important issue where we are actually taking the Slovenian economy. In my opinion, this government, which has now ruled for two years, has been treating the Slovenian economy very irresponsiblely and also mismanagement of state property. In the adopted state property management strategy is, or you can say, privatisation practically cancelled, even what was envisaged for privatisation from the previous government, this is the government of Alenka Bratušek, and you sold untransparent and poorly, here I am talking about the case of sale of Paloma and Adrié Airways. In this area, you've done quite a few controversial personnel. This is about you breaking the pre-election promise of independent experts' policy. Here we have the case of Mr Mark Jazbec at the head of SDH. You put it back up, even though you knew he was responsible for the bank hole. Then let's not talk about the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, where these positions are staffed by deserved staff, not to mention other personnel. All these personnel are definitely leading to the third resolution of the banking system. Of course, all of this also affects the Slovenian economy, Mr Minister. And since you've been in the government for two years, I think we should raise our voices here a little bit more and say that some things are controversial and that some personnel should not come. Then it would probably be easier to deal with where to take the Slovenian economy. In short, I propose that a debate be held on this very important issue, including because this government has not yet carried out any structural reform, has not carried out labour market reform, there is no pension reform, there is no public sector reform and there is no health reform. The only thing that was done was a mini-tax reform by Minister Marble, which would reduce the economy's investment and research and development benefits, but would further burden it. So that's all that was somehow done. I ask that this debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr Tillen Bozič will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister Gasperšič, in recent times various information and interpretations regarding traffic arrangements from Kopra or Izola to the Croatian border have been found in the media. Recently, the initiative was reinvigorated by a proposal for the installation of a route that might better exploit the existing Markovec tunnel, and from there it would pass through Izole, then through the Baredi tunnel, to the Dragonje Valley and all the way to the Croatian border. This route is supposed to offer more advantages. In addition to the possible reduction in the level of investment due to the replacement of two routes with a single route, which would in a comparable way solve the transit problem of this area, i.e. the replacement of the Koper-Dragonja route and the Koper-Lucija-Croatian route, it is worth stressing that the initiative also had a positive impact at the level of the local communities of Izole, Kopra and Piran. Shortly thereafter, you also entrusted your fellow workers with the task of evaluating and assessing the feasibility or eligibility of this alternative. Due to the various data and interpretations in the media, as well as in the local environment, preparation for demolitions and other activities on the Izola-Lucia route, they provide mixed information on the intentions of the Ministry of Infrastructure, DARS and DRSI. That's why, Minister, and here I am speaking on behalf of many of the people of Slovenia, especially Isolcank and Isolcanov, I am interested: What are the intentions and actions of the Ministry of Infrastructure, DARS and DRSI regarding the priorities for the development of the road network in Istria? And more specifically: At what stage was the verification of the possibility of replacing the two routes with a single route, which, as already mentioned, would take place through the tunnel Markovec past Izole and from there through the tunnel Baredi to the valley of Dragonje, from there to the Croatian border? When can we expect results and then possible decisions from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Government in this regard? What activities are currently taking place on the Izola-Lucia route? Does it keep in mind that if an alternative route is not taken into account, you plan to simultaneously build a section of the fast road also from Lucija to Croatia border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gaspersic, to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member Tillen Christmas! With regard to your question, I would like to answer that the Ministry of Infrastructure, as we have already announced and promised, has obtained a study to give an indicative assessment of the meaning of the alternative variant as Baredi, the so-called variant under Baredi. The study has shown that the proposal with alternative solutions needs further, in-depth studies, such as the two routes that have been dealt with so far, where the State Spatial Plan has already been adopted in one part and is in the other part of the Dragonje Valley in the final phase. The Ministry also plans to present in April the results of this study, carried out for the version under Baredi, together with the producer of the study and the company DARS, to the mayors of the coastal municipalities, both the applicants and also Members from this coastal region. And on the basis of this meeting then we plan to agree on the necessary follow-up activities that we will then carry out with regard to these alternative solutions. Let me also say that on the jagodje-Lucia route this year, the purchase of land continues. The fact is that so far most of the necessary land has been purchased and some decommissioning procedures are already in the final stage, so these procedures need to be completed. However, the design phase for this section is also being completed. However, the data with which you served, or the question whether we are already planning to build a rapid road section at the same time, also from Lucija to the Croatian border, should this alternative not be taken into account, and therefore this information does not hold true in order to plan further activities against the Croatian border. In this regard, however, the Ministry will have to first order the production of a study to define and identify the necessary measures, following this road link from Lucija and then to the state border with Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, as you know this year, the Law on tax clearance of accounts has entered into force. The law you have drafted, in which we Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have had a lot of comments and, of course, that we have voted against. Let me say that now, we can say, almost three months after the entry into force of this law, Members of the SDS together with colleague Laho had a recently round table on agriculture in the municipality of Jurovski Dol. That was March 17th. And on this, we can say, round tables, many producers, smaller producers, smaller farmers and also representatives of cooperatives have asked us a number of questions and also described a number of problems that are now emerging in practice. Let me say that on this issue there are also pensioners' societies, mountain societies with similar problems. And these societies represent, we can say, the driving of rural development, the intersection of everything, integration, promotion, a number of activities, and they are also part of a number of events in the congregations themselves. I would like to describe some of the problems that have been addressed to me mainly by these representatives from the agricultural work. They are mainly talking about tax warehouses in a market where use is almost unsustainable. You sell at the market, like, marmalade, strawberries, apples. Marmalade is a complementary activity, so you have to issue an account. Strawberries are registered as another activity, you have to put out an account. For apples, which are a basic agricultural activity, there is no need to issue an account. The same is true of vegetables: cabbage, sour cabbage and salad. You must therefore attach a notice of the obligation to issue the invoice to the tax office. How do I explain that an apple does not need to be billed because it is taxed on cadastral income? Also, when the inspector arrives and you complete the cash register, the cashier must have an exact sum. How do I explain to the client that there's juice in the account, maybe strawberries, but it's not apples. So it's a variety of activities, some are exempt from this, some are not. So, practically operating on the market itself, for these small producers with incomes, say, in one day a few ten euros, is catastrophic. In January, it turned out that at least half the customers turned out to be afraid that someone was cheating on them because they told them they didn't have to issue an account for apples. And then he leaves, goes to the grocery store, and he's afraid of the punishment the inspector will give him. So he doesn't buy the goods he wants because he's afraid of punishment and so on. Then, at minus five, these cashiers canceled. Then someone who sells in two markets, a smaller farmer, where a sister goes to one market, a brother to another, must now have two cash registers and so on. So there's a whole series of, I can say, bureaucratic regulations, so bureaucracy, which literally limits and destroys the whole operation of not just smaller cooperatives, smaller farmers, a whole range of societies and everything else. Basically, there's a disaster in the field, Mr. Secretary-General. That's why I'm asking you: How will you respond to these truths that are now coming to the public? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much, honourable Member Franz Breznik. The Ministry of Finance has followed the objective of establishing a single system based on the mandatory clearance of accounts for all debtors who are bound by the rules governing value added tax, except for certain exceptions where there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In preparing the draft law, the initiatives taken in the context of the public examination of the proposal of the law were also followed to the greatest extent possible, following the determination of the narrowest possible range of debtors for whom an exemption from the obligation to confirm the accounts is provided in order to ensure equal tax treatment of all debtors. In establishing the system of tax clearance of accounts, the problem of taxpayers issuing fewer invoices has also been specifically addressed. The law provides for a two-year transitional period during which the debtors may choose to issue invoices in accordance with the law, either by using an electronic account issuing facility and tax certification in real time, or by using a linked account book and subsequent confirmation of invoices via an application on the e-tax portal within 10 working days of the date of issue of the invoice. The transitional period allows the debtors to gradually adapt to the new arrangements when the use of the electronic account issuing device is mandatory. In addition, in particular for small taxpayers who issue fewer invoices, the issuing of invoices in accordance with the law by using the free online application of the "mini tax box" on the e-tax portal is permanently possible. In determining the set of commitments, the principle of equal treatment of the debtors in a comparable situation was taken as a basic consideration and there are no valid reasons for distinguishing between the type of activity or the legal and organisational status of the debtor. In addition, it should be noted that the obligation to issue invoices in accordance with the rules governing value added tax would still apply to all taxable persons in the event of an exemption from the obligation to tax the accounts. From the point of view of the obligation to issue invoices, the implementation of the value added tax legislation or the scope of the tax obligations of the system of tax attestation of invoices does not bring any change; the change is only in the manner in which the invoices are issued. Moreover, we cannot go beyond the fact that, as a general rule, less traffic commitments are more likely to receive cash and, as such, are the addressees of the obligation to tax confirmation of accounts. The tax clearance obligation was introduced on 2 January 2016. The first analyses on this basis of the data obtained from the value added tax calculation will be possible somewhere in May 2016, and a comprehensive analysis of the effects of the introduction of the tax validation of the accounts will be possible the following year, when all accounts of value added tax taxpayers as well as corporate income tax and activity income tax will be paid. At that time, an analysis and assessment of the effects of the system of tax clearance of accounts will also be carried out by group of debtors or activities. We have just introduced it, so it is necessary that for at least one year we have such a way of confirming accounts in function, and then there is a serious analysis and then maybe some changes. But with taxes, we have to be aware that the basic logic of taxes is that there has to be as few exceptions as possible. The larger the exception, the narrower the taxpayers' base and the higher the tax rates, this is bad for the economy. The tax rule is that as wide a base as possible and as low a tax as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u115	Mr. Minister, I can say that I've always appreciated you as an economic theorist, but, look, when you say there must be as few exceptions as possible, I'll give you a few exceptions. Slovenia is not a normal country, Slovenia has only small farms, extremely fragmented. Dear Mr. Minister, Slovenia is not Ljubljana, Slovenia are not Ljubljana's chairs, Slovenia is also the Municipality of Benedikt, Jurovski dol, but there is also Voličina and there is the Municipality of Cerkvenjak and Marija Snezna, where the colleague comes from, there are smaller farms, people who barely survive, pensioners who have some additional activities on farms that have 200, 300 euros in pensions. Let me say, on the one hand, my fellow agricultural minister says he is fighting for the most healthy environment, the green land, but it is not to be asked how many trees will have to fall for the paper of these invoices. Instead of elegance in calculating the annual rate currently introduced and where there is a whole range of benefits in Austria, let alone say that up to 50,000 euros are exempt all of these, we can say, smaller producers. In addition, in Austria there was an immediate constitutional dispute in the Austrian Constitutional Court. Dear Minister, the fact is that this year too, if we look at February 2016 and February 2015, you have collected 1% less VAT. That's a fact, we don't have to wait for these tests until May. The fact is that a whole range of these smaller producers will stop the activity in order to reduce, in fact, the whole range of specific activities, such as baking bread on farms and everything else, will be compromised. Retired groups, look at the story of the Elder for the Elders. They are going on a trip, the Association of Retired Churchmen, as the president has explained to me, must issue an invoice for 3 euros in membership or 3 euros in contributions. This is an abnormal state, Mr. Secretary. What are you gonna do, ask you again, in this medium term? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u116	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, to provide a supplementary explanation. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. First of all, I didn't look for information about Austria, but I got it from my associates. In Austria, tax receipts were not yet introduced when we introduced them, and they worked in Austria in parallel with the preparation of legal solutions. In Austria, they have a system that is comparable to what we had as virtual bank registers in the past. Hence, they have no direct connection with the tax authority. It is mandatory to use tax warehouses in agricultural activities, except for companies and tickets for sports and cultural events, this is what you mentioned. We are aware of the problem of complementary activities on farms, I must say. We are also looking at this time with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, for example, to issue accounts for intensive agricultural activities, such as artichokes, strawberries, asparagus, and complementary activities on farms, which I have mentioned, which are subject to compulsory income provision based on bookkeeping, and are therefore also committed to tax confirmation of invoices, we are preparing a solution whereby intensive agricultural activities and certain complementary activities of small scale will be carried out, this is what you mentioned, and here I have some cases: milling of cereals, production of yogurts, no added raw materials, sale of own slaughterhouses, covered in the framework of basic agricultural and forestry activities, and they will no longer be subject to the obligation to the issue of invoices. We're studying this and looking at where we might actually go. So we're listening, we're analysing and we're preparing solutions at the same time, which, if it makes sense, would, of course, apply them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u119	Dear Vice President, thank you. I will use the Rules of Procedure to hold a public debate. I think waiting for some results within a year is the way to fail. The path towards the collapse of these smaller producers, the path to rural collapse, many societies, many small producers driving development, and not least the destruction of a whole range of traditional products. Let me tell you, these people have also written me a few phrases that warn me that once you destroy something, you don't put it back. More young people will leave agriculture, more knowledge will be lost, and eventually less income from agriculture will come to Slovenia's tax box. We hope that you have listened to all the arguments that will prevail over a healthy farmer's mind. We expect the imposition of flat-rate taxation on farms before the use of tax boxes is mandatory without exception, i.e. those books of bound accounts. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Minister, as you know, we have introduced a law that eliminates tax receipts entirely because we do not need them because there is a whole type of activity in Slovenia where money literally disappears and disappears abroad, and smaller producers are not the ones that will replace these revenue cuts from budgets. I think that there is a whole range of areas, activities, institutions in Slovenia that do not operate transparently, which are literally destroyers of budget revenues, and here are those, I think, the biggest differences. I think that the OECD and everyone else, as the finance minister, are telling you that public spending is too high in Slovenia, from health bills to state companies and everything else that works untransparently, so I think there are enough reserves. You have also never mentioned, Minister, our infrastructure, internet, especially wireless internet, where there is no connection where there is no signal in Slovenia. That's what mountain societies are talking about. Last but not least, if we look at other manufacturers, for example, a number of companies, export companies, now also have reduced internet speed, because the tax box has filled a wireless internet network and we never talk about it. You have never really told how many items complete hardware and software infrastructure you had to build because you have committed that these tax warehouses will always work on the online system, which is, we can say, the incredible rich desire of a country. So, look, all of this will be on the shoulders of these people that I represent, on the shoulders of small people from Slovenski Gorica, people who have worked, who have created and who in their last period, those few activities that they perform to make them feel useful, see, all of these people will literally be thrown out of your Ljubljana chair. And here, Mr. Secretary, that's more than a theory, that's the practice, that's the life, and that's when we play with the fate of small people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik, your proposal will be decided by the Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr Matjaž Hanžek will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. In recent months we have witnessed numerous protests against refugee accommodation in many places in Slovenia. Although it is already sad in itself that anyone opposes housing and helping people who have been under pressure to leave their homes, something completely different is worrying about these protests. Protests against refugees were often accompanied by calls for violence under neo-Nazi and other far-right symbols. In general, we are witnessing an increase in hate speech in the country, as we discussed in the National Assembly. In the streets, graffiti often appear, such as: Stop Islamization, We want weapons, Rape left-wing women and so on. On online networks, extreme right-wing people are calling for violence against both refugees and people with different political ideological beliefs. The most worrying are the organization of subterranean right-wing groups and the increasing incidence of violence that goes beyond hate speech. Let me remind you of the disembarking of pig heads, the attempt to burn down the national home in New Town. Not only does it not appear that the State would do anything to protect people from the violence of these groups, but the State does nothing to limit the formation and functioning of far-right groups that are increasingly acting on the cellular principle of organising terrorist groups. And worst of all, by tolerating hate speech and merely passive monitoring of its operation, this government gives silent support to these groups and by creating a psychosis of emergency situations actually encourages their emergence. All of this has been skillfully exploited and inspired by some parliamentary parties who have recently announced a referendum to break the constitutional order of this country and our international commitments resulting from the signed conventions. That's why I'm asking: Are you monitoring the organisation and functioning of extreme right-wing groups at the Ministry? Where are these groups being financed and are there links between them and right-wing parliamentary groups? Did organized extreme right-wing groups participate in the organization of protests against refugees? What are you going to do to make the formation and growth of such organizations disappear? Since the Minister is not, and since I will be performing my duties in Strasbourg at the next meeting, I would like to ask for a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak will raise the question to the Minister for Culture mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u123	Dear Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary, the President, you are most welcome! I ask both ministers: What is the status of Telekom Slovenije's subsidiary Soline Salt production, which, among other things, manages the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park? Sečovlje saltin is not only an invaluable natural value, but also a strategically important borderline of the territory of Slovenia at the border with Croatia. When Telekom Slovenije was sold, the management status of the landscape park could be complicated, which we certainly do not want. I want to know: What activities are in progress at your ministries in order to exclude Soline from the sales package Telekom Slovenije and thereby protect Slovenia's national interest? It is true that Telekom's current sale has stalled, but at a time when this was true, people have been very busy, interested and concerned, because, finally, our territory at the border is extremely important and it does not matter whose property it is. Since this is our very important cultural heritage, our natural heritage, of course, we are all the more concerned. Because I couldn't understand some things from the media so that I could have a clearer picture of the situation right now, so I'm asking you and asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Culture, Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, President! Soline, d. o. o., have a concession contract for the management of the landscape park under the Nature Conservation Act. The answer to the question whether the status of management of the landscape park in the sale of Telekom could be complicated is actually within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space, but you correctly assume that the Ministry of Culture and Professional Institutions in the field of culture are aware of the exceptional importance of piranha salts and of the particularly delicate positions of salt salts and of the many factors that threaten salts such as high tides, transport infrastructures, border setting, possible new operators. Which, of course, means that the problems you're asking about have also been dealt with intensively at the Ministry of Culture. We agree with your opinion that the management of the Sečovlje Soline landscape park is also extremely important for the protection of Slovenian national interest. The Ministry of Culture has repeatedly expressed the view that when deciding on the resale of Telekom Slovenije, the consequences of the sale should not only be carefully examined, but also the question of Solin, d. o. o. At the time of the intended sale of Telekom Slovenije, the government and especially the Ministry of Finance proposed the prior exclusion of Solin, d. o. o., from Telekom. The government has listened to the Ministry of Culture's initiative, but the Ministry of Finance is expected to find that there are too many stakeholders with whom this issue should be reconciled before the sale in order to make this work. Therefore, it prepared a proposal to regulate the issue of Solin immediately after the sale of Telekom Slovenije, as it was envisaged that a possible buyer would be subject to the condition that Soline would be transferred to his country immediately after the sale. To this end, it was concluded that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was to conclude a contract establishing the purchase option and the pre-purchase rights in the entire business share of Soline Prodelava salt, d. o. o. I therefore propose that you ask the Minister for Finance, who was responsible for the implementation of this Decision of the Government, or the Minister for Environment and Space for Soline, for more details of this procedure, which is intended to safeguard public interest when it comes to Soline. Otherwise, at the Ministry of Culture, we also joined in the preparation of a decree declaring traditional sea salt production a living masterpiece of national importance. We started this process in 2015 and are still running, and it is led by the Slovenian Ethnographic Museum as the coordinator of the protective substance cultural heritage. Perhaps Mr Minister Restorationšek will also say more about this content, which you are asking more questions about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u127	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Your Honor, thank you for asking. Sečovlje salts are, as was said, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The Ministry of Environment and Space also actively cooperated with the Ministry of Finance in dealing with the salt issue in the context of the sale of Telekom, which is 100 % of the salt owners. The proposal was prepared, as a colleague of the minister said. Of course, this proposal referred to a sales procedure which had been completed. I believe that we now have enough time before a new possible procedure in this direction, in spite of everything, to prepare this matter in a way that we will be excluded before the sale process and that we will not then be dependent on matters after sale, although I am sure that the proposal that the Ministry of Finance made at that time, where we have only reacted in the course of the sales process itself, has provided a solution to the problem in this direction, because it is not just a cultural historical area now, is important, as you said, the border area. And at least as far as our ministry is concerned, it is also an important part of the original, unique tourist offer in the area. And I believe that now, before the next step, we will come to the point that this matter will be protected to the appropriate extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u128	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you. I cannot now ask the Minister of Finance a question, but he is present, so he will certainly hear. Thank you for your answers. First of all, I must say that I was not satisfied with Mrs Culture Minister's response when she said that the country would only negotiate after the sale if we had another owner. Now I'm a little calmed down by the Minister of Economy, who said there was still time to do it now. And I also think it's necessary to do it before the sale. Of course, we never know when this sale will take place if it ever really happens, but anyway, I think that this natural park and important border territory must be adequately protected. I would therefore appeal at this moment not only to you, which I have asked you a question, but also to the Minister of Finance to examine this issue and actually prepare appropriate measures to address this issue. As we all note, not only is this our important natural cultural heritage, but it is a strategically important territory right in the work where we already have our own border problems. I therefore expect that you, too, will watch what the Minister of Finance is doing in this area and encourage him to look for appropriate solutions. If you can promise me this in your further reply, I will also be pleased.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to the Minister of Culture of Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Yes, indeed, I was not satisfied with this solution myself, because we have been dealing with the problem immediately since we took office, not only Sečovljena salts, but also the Youth Books and probably some other areas that are strategically extremely important for Slovenia, Sečovlje Solina, of course, from all these aspects, which you yourself have mentioned. I was hoping it would be possible to remove Soline, d.o.o., from Telekom before Soline went for sale. It was later said, however, that it was impossible for there to be so many stakeholders that this practice could not be implemented. This, of course, is why, although dissatisfied, we can hope for at least this solution to be done. Later, when the sale fell away, we were relieved, but I also hope that this would be, so if it were just a time-consuming crisis, but I am afraid that this is not the reason that it might really be for so many stakeholders that it is not feasible in practice, I do not know. This will make me very happy, and I will also follow your questions, if you continue to ask them, we will, of course, keep on looking at this issue, at least as far as the Ministry of Culture is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Does the Minister for Economic Development and Technology also want to complement the response? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate at the next meeting on your reply or the reply of the Minister and Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u133	Of course, I will take this opportunity and demand a special debate, because a number of questions are being asked right around Solin. I did not find the latest media records, but I do know that in the past funding was a problem both by the Ministry of the Environment. Then I don't understand why tickets can't be used or don't belong to the landscape park, which is what I found in the media records. Then there was a problem with the import or the bridge, which was closed for a while and so on. In short, it seems to me that the issue is topical, it is necessary to encourage, pressure the government to deal with this issue in the future. Which is why, of course, I will demand that we address this issue further in order to vote on an additional debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs Ljudmila Novak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask a question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, on the adoption of the budget for 2016 and 2017, it was announced both by you and by the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Government, that the structural deficit would be reduced, in line with the plan you set yourself, by 2020. This was why the shock was so much greater for all of us when the European Commission said that it was planning or planning in Slovenia according to some data and reports that are known to everyone and are public, that it was supposed to amount to a structural deficit in 2017 with unchanged policies of 2.8%, meaning the biggest structural deficit in the euro area. This, of course, in other words, seems to mean that the economy, the finances, are not going in the right direction. There have not been any new facts here, in particular there has been no event, at least in our opinion no, which would have been so-called extraordinary expenditure, and we have taken migration expenditure into account or taken into account in the 2016 and 2017 accounts, and the methodology was already the same as today, therefore this cannot actually be an excuse because these two things are not going in this direction. That's why, of course, I'm interested: What policies are you going to propose first of all to the government and then to the National Assembly to reduce this structural deficit or to move towards constitutional provisions in order to actually reduce it? At the end of 2017, one percent of the gross social product was expected to be 1,6 % of the gross social product at the end of 2016. In short, this is also, of course, the fact that either by changing gross social product or by changing expenditure, these ratios reduce because they are what you actually set them up. I would like to take a brief look at the measures by which you will come to the National Assembly in order to see the deficit towards which you have, after all, drawn up your own budget adoptions for 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble, to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much, distinguished Ambassador Mag. Andrey Shircelj. One such question I have already received from Commissioner Horvat today, and I will try to say perhaps a little differently that it will be more comprehensive for both of us together. I would like to point out that, with the budget adopted for 2016 and 2017, the planned reduction, nominal reduction, deficit of 0.6% of gross domestic product for each year was around EUR 240 million. In order to achieve such a reduction, a nominal reduction of the deficit, we have also adopted a range of measures in 2015, in 2016, which also operate in 2017. I have already been asked about these measures by Mr Horvat, and I have read them, but I would rather take the time now to explain what is actually problematic. On the basis of the European Commission's autumn forecast, it is working on three forecasts: autumn, winter and spring, based on the autumn forecast, it has mechanically inserted data or forecasts into its model and then calculated what structural effort represents these 0.6, says about 240 million nominal deficit reductions. And it has found that we are in a broader sense in 2016 in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. After inserting winter forecast data and taking into account migration costs at the same time, she found that this effort is no longer large enough to establish that we are in a broader sense in line with the Stability and Growth Pact, but that we have too little effort. As we look at the data for 2015, 2016 and 2017, you will only understand the results of this mechanical model developed by rocket scientists for the European Union. Slovenia has foreseen a real deficit of 2,9 for 2015, 2,3 for 2016 and 1,7 for 2017. It is said that every year a reduction of 0.6%. Please note that the structural deficit was foreseen for 2% of GDP in 2015 and for 2.5 in 2017 for 2.8% of GDP in 2016. If economic logic is to produce such a result that these nominal deficits fall, and the structural deficit is so frantic, it should have economic growth in the economy every year even higher and above the potential, above what the economy can create under some normal conditions, not overheating or recession. These results, however, indicate that Slovenia is expected to have a higher overheating of the economy every next year. And this crazy big one. The highest in the European Union. This so-called gap, the difference between the projected growth and the potential one, is 1.9% in 2017, which is completely beyond any logic. And this is what I opened up at the Eurogroup, and I immediately joined the 7 countries with which we have now written a letter to the European Commission, and the European Commission has already written down that it will deal with this methodology and try to find someone else who will be significantly simpler. In short, this methodology for Slovenia gives completely illogical results. That's clear to every economist. With such a fall in the deficit, as we have put it in the budget, it is perfectly logical that when you do not have overheating, when you have deflation, high unemployment, a high surplus of the current part of the balance of payments, you should, as do domestic nominal deficits, also fall structural deficits, but not so crazy growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Definitely complementing the answer. I already said at the beginning that there are methodological problems, or problems, mentioned by the minister. However, the Fiscal Rule Act also refers to European regulations, even in all the explanations that follow this Fiscal Rule Act, talk about European requirements and also about all these matters. This is said to be no new matter at all, and this matter has come to the fore now that the same European Commission has said that Slovenia should have the highest deficit among the euro states in 2017. There is an additional problem in this regard. And now, look, if this doesn't apply, I don't think you need to write a letter, Minister, I don't know why you don't then protest with the European Commission on this, if all this doesn't apply. Then what information is correct? Because then the European Commission does not have the correct data for 7 countries. Which are the right ones? But on the other hand, the European Commission itself binds us to this deficit and binds us to nothing. Now we don't even know where we are. After all, this is also irresponsible and I would ask you here for a comment or an additional explanation of what to do in this case. Then we are outside the European system, then we should say this, not just write one letter, which officials in Brussels will read or will not read, or will answer or will not reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much. In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to Dr Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm going to try to answer this very directly. First of all, it's about grades. For 2015 estimates, because we do not have the final results and data, for 2016 there are all estimates, 2017 also estimates. The actual structural deficit will be seen ex post. For example, for 2015 we will see in autumn 2016, for 2016 autumn 2017 and so on. In these assessments and model, which then translates the assessments into a structural deficit, the problem is, it has a problem with the European Commission's assessments and has a problem with the model. I first opened this at the Eurogroup and Ecofin. We had a long conversation with the European Commission when it was in Ljubljana when there was a report on Slovenia. I was now in London, where we were together, with the European Commission, we had a special meeting, we went through the methodology again, and the European Commission is aware that Slovenia is still a special loner here, because we are completely out of the system of other countries and also knows what the underlying reasons are. Whether it is in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act and whether it is in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact, we will see ex post. The Commission is now assessing and reminding us whether we are in line or not. We will look at this now whether the methodology is recognisedly inadequate and will apply new then and we will see what the result will be, or if we find that the methodology is not problematic, which I do not think we need to find out, we will take the appropriate measures, as we took them in 2015 for 2016 and in 2014 for 2015, to reduce the deficit by 0.6% of gross domestic product per year. If you ask me what appropriate structural measures we will take to reduce the deficit even more than it is now decreasing, from 2.9 to 2.3, to 1.7 last year and in 2014 it was 3.4 without recapitalisation. So we have 3.4, 2.9, predicted, I think it's going to be lower, 2, 3, 1.7, and we're going right towards what this mid-term goal is. However, the medium-term objective is, of course, a deficit of zero in 2020.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u143	Yes, please, of course, Madam Vice President. I would really like this debate to be held, because even after this reply, it is even less clear than it was before. Indeed, the Minister himself says that we are out of the system, we are out of the European system, if I quote, and that the European Commission is also saying that. That's what the minister says. Then where are we? And then we don't even have any real data on where we are today. And that's what I'm most worried about right now. On the one hand, the European Commission gives the information that we are going in the opposite direction and that we have the biggest structural deficit in the Eurogroup, this is what they wrote, the letter on paper is, you can look at it, on the other hand, the minister says that we are not in this system, because the methodology for Slovenia should not apply, or in other words, if I sum up, is absurd or does not give these results that should be given. That is why I am actually proposing that this be established, because the measures that will come later, but if the European Commission is right, will be even worse. Not only is it that much worse, but in fact the constitutional provision will not be respected. And if the constitutional provision is not respected, then it is known what such a government is following to do against the Constitution. And if we don't know where we are today, and if the government doesn't know where it is with public finances, structural deficits and so on, I think it's an alarm for this National Assembly to actually find out here, including with the professional foundations of the European Commission, including the professional foundations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and to find out where we are in public finances. I actually suggest, for the first time, that this is a public debate, and that, of course, even if we are in the system, by chance, the Minister, as the European Commission will say, then the Government will have to take immediate action, the ones you are talking about and the ones you have already talked about. That's not what I'm talking about today. That's what I'm talking about right now. If the minister says we're out of the system, look, it's very worrying. And about the Minister's grades themselves. Yes, the Economic and Financial Council today is based on assessments. Everybody's making grades. And these assessments do not differ significantly from those of the actual data of all international institutions. All international institutions, from the IMF, the OECD, the European Commission and so on, Umarja, a domestic institution, are based on estimates. And that is also where development and economic growth are based.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj, your proposal will be decided by the Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u145	President, thank you for your word. Madam Secretary, nice to meet you. When we are talking about health care, both by the government and by the ministry and by any member of the public, we are talking about high-quality health care, seeking safe health care, focusing on patients and the timely availability of treatment, especially when it comes to children. It is true that children's heart surgery, which has upset the public in the past and I think it will soon be again today, that, I will say, by your ministry, a long-standing story. I turn to you with the following question or thinking. 15. Ten. In 2015, when we had cardiac surgery on the Health Committee, it was said by the Secretary of the Ministry of Health that the Ministry of Health has been involved in child heart surgery since 2013, but the Health Council, which is the highest consulting body of the Minister, was only discussing this on 7 October 2015. According to the President of the Health Council, it was said at the time that the children’s heart surgery programme was good, safe, quality and that the health council supported the decision to keep the children’s heart surgery programme in Slovenia. In addition, the then Head of Child Heart Surgery, who assured us, with his words and words, “I guarantee that today the program is good and safe that surgeons from Italy, Prague, Munich are coming to us and that 24 hours will also be provided with a 24-hour readiness for our young children by Czech surgeons.” Since then, or in the meantime, we have been able to see in several interviews with both you and Dr. Robido and other representatives, or those working in the field of child heart surgery, various statements, including the fact that four surgeons are coming to Slovenia to operate, while at the same time saying that the number of placements of children abroad, i.e. on operations, is increasing dramatically from 2012 to 2015 and that this also increases costs. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary: Is it true that from 2012 to 2014, the number of children who were sent abroad increased by more than 200%, given the assurance that four qualified surgeons were coming to Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Mrs María Milojka Kolar Celarc, to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Member of Parliament and others! As you know, it is the conduct of procedures, referral to treatment abroad under the responsibility of the Health Insurance Institute. According to their data we received, 9 heart operations were performed abroad in 2012, 5 in 2013, 60 in 2014 and 28 in 2015. In the first months of this year, four children were sent abroad for surgery. In 2012, children were sent to Israel, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, in 2013 to Israel, in 2014 to Germany, Israel and the Czech Republic, in 2015 to Israel, Australia, Germany, Italy and the Czech Republic, and this year to Germany, the Czech Republic and Italy. Although we are not aware of individual specific cases at the Ministry, we believe that the reduction in referrals to treatment in 2015 compared to the previous year and the first figures this year indicate that the smaller referrals are due to better organisation and functioning of the heart surgery programme in UKC Ljubljana. We are also convinced that if UKC Ljubljana succeeds in its efforts to implement the strategy of the children's heart surgery programme, the number of referrals will continue to decrease further, reducing the amount of resources the institution will pay for this purpose. As you know, UKC Ljubljana has developed a strategy for the heart surgery programme, which was also addressed and supported by the Health Council, but has also said that it expects that the UKC will further prepare a more precise, detailed implementation plan to be presented to the Health Council by October of this year. Thus, in the future, when this strategy and more concrete measures are prepared, after confirmation in the Health Council as the highest expert advisory body of the Ministry of Health, it will be possible to expect the deployment of these heart operations to be reduced abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u149	Dear Minister, I know that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance travels or approves these operations abroad, but I must say that this money, which is the cost of taxpayers, and that it is also the Ministry of Health, I must say that it is a pleasure to say that I am involved in this. So you can't just say that the ZZZRS is responsible for this and the ministry has nothing to do with it. Once again, the health council is talking about this and this is your highest consultative body. If it was said in 2015 that our program is safe, that four surgeons are coming, then I do not know why there were 60 referrals in 2014. Five years ago. And you say that things will change when we have the strategy we received, the treatment of children and adults with congenital heart failure, to the National Assembly in February, so that there will be even fewer referrals. It does not seem to you that this strategy, or that the state of the child’s heart surgery, has been regulated for so long, is essentially the responsibility of the ministry. Things should run faster, given that things were said to be safe and quality. We do, however, know from reports, but also from elsewhere, that children are not being sent abroad because of a less invasive operation because they are not allowed to do so by the health department. We do not do these operations in Slovenia. And the fact that four surgeons are coming to Slovenia is not true. Three of them are coming, and it's not 24 hours, but as it used to be, 3 days a month. And I think, Madam Minister, that we should look into this, even though this strategy has been adopted 10. In February, but at the same time on 10 February, Dr Robid said he did not know that he was on this committee to prepare a strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you very much. In order to complete my reply, I give the floor to Minister Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you. Complementary or additional explanation. See, we talked about the strategy, and UKC Ljubljana also prepared a special programme of short-term measures, which the healthcare sector has already addressed before the strategy is drafted. These short-term measures to improve the organisation and functioning of the children’s heart surgery programme are the result of 28 referrals in 2015 and 60 in 2014. Then, as you well know, events occurred, of course, or the replacement of these foreign experts or heart surgeons. Therefore, I also argue that the reduction in the number of referrals in 2015, i.e. 28 visas 60 referrals in 2014, as well as this year's situation shows that these referrals further reduce that short-term measures and the result of the adoption of these measures in cardiac surgery to better organise the operation of this programme, including by setting up centres both in Italy and in the Czech Republic and elsewhere where these children were being driven to these operations, meant that the need for these operations could be fully met. However, when we talk about the strategic programme, we are talking about the whole programme because it is the idea that a national centre for these types of interventions should be established in UKC Ljubljana, where the wider environment would naturally be involved. Because you know well that experts in this professional report on cardiac surgery have written that there must be at least a certain number of interventions in order to ensure adequate quality and safety in these procedures. And this is part of the strategy that we're working on. This first part has already been presented and adopted. Now more concrete measures based on this strategy will, as I have said, be presented to the Health Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. According to some estimates, there is an estimated 200,000 people in Slovenia who have already tried hemp for either medical or recreational purposes. Pursuant to Article 33 of the Law on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs, the possession of illicit drugs is an offence. In the case of a smaller quantity of illicit drugs for single use, the user may be fined more. In accordance with the provisions of the Act on Offences, a warning can also be given. In the context of the CAPPD and the CAP, therefore, due to the uncertainty of the definition of a smaller quantity, the possible range of penalties imposed is from a note to a fine. Moreover, the indeterminability of this smaller quantity has led to further confusion, taking into account Article 186 of the Penal Code, which provides, inter alia, that prison sentences of 1 to 10 years are punishable by an unjustifiable producer or processor of plants or substances classified as illicit drugs or illicit substances. In theory, therefore, the possession of a smaller quantity of hemp is an offence, but since a smaller quantity is not clearly defined, the individual is entirely dependent on the decision of the individual authorities that conduct the proceedings. For example, a police officer may decide, for the same amount of reminder, to initiate an offence procedure or to assess the quantity as such, in his opinion, to conform to the description of the offence. How strongly an individual will be stigmatized or even incriminated is so entirely dependent on the environment in which he lives. In urban centres, the use of cannabis is much less stigmatised, and as a result the attitude of police and courts towards cannabis users in urban centres is much more liberal than in rural areas. Thus, in practice, there is an uneven treatment of cannabis users. That's why I'm asking you: In 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, how many criminal charges have been filed for the offences of unjustified production and processing of hemp under Article 186 of the Penal Code? How many convictions have been handed down? What is the minimum quantity of hemp for which a judgment has been rendered? Do you think that the arrangements allowing the same amount of hemp to be applied to such a wide range of penalties are appropriate? Do you think that the proper regime under which hemp is classified as the first group of illicit drugs and consequently treated is exactly the same as heroin, cocaine and other hard drugs? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Mag. Goran Klemenčič to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Dear Member Tomić, I will divide your question into two parts. The first are the questions you have asked about statistics, and the second is very, I will say, of a valuable nature, and I will be happy to answer it. As regards first of all data on the number of criminal charges, convictions and prosecutions, I regret to conclude that the information system of the judiciary and the prosecution does not allow for a review of the various drugs to be separated. In our own words, we have data and bodies of detection and prosecution and prosecution have data on a particular crime, on a particular offence, but do not separate within a type of drug and in order to choose hemp. You should go see every file, which was impossible and disproportionate at the moment. Nevertheless, I can tell you that, with regard to the general data relating to Article 186 of the Penal Code, which defines as a crime the unjustifiable production and trafficking of illicit drugs, the number between 2012 and 2015, for which you have asked, moves between a thousand and a thousand 200 complaints per year and then 700 and 800 convictions per year. We're talking about classic drug-related crimes. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you what the scope of the hemp-related crimes is here. All I'm talking about is that part that's not related to organised crime, because there's about 100 additional convictions here every year. But I will be happy to give you specific information for each year so that we do not waste time now by listing these tables. Juveniles are also being led separately, such as about, say, the measures imposed and sanctions imposed against minors in the field of illicit drugs, every year from 40 to 70. Well, even when it comes to crimes. I think you've asked me this in writing once. The fact is that offences were, for example, linked to illicit drugs from 2009 to 2014, and of course also to cannabis, approximately 3 000 500 were solved. Of this, the court, at the end of the sentence, handed down only 313 cases and the fines of this amounted to EUR 28 000, cumulatively. In short, it's about the range of sanctions. See, such an example, where you have an extremely large range of sanctions, from a reminder to, if I simplify, up to ten years in prison, is not so unusual in crimes where it tries to cover different categories of perpetrators and forms of crime, because in Slovenia the principle of individualisation of criminal sanctions applies, taking into account all mitigating and aggravating circumstances. There is an appropriate criminal policy emerging through judicial practice. We also know that such matters often end or sometimes end only in the Supreme Court. So we could follow up months ago, say what some extraordinary judgment and decision of the Supreme Court, which overturned the conviction in a particular case of someone who was growing hemp and using it to treat his wife. Now to the other part. Then I'll give you the statistics. Look, there's a colleague of the Minister of Health in the hall. Their competence includes the inclusion of illicit drugs in individual groups. The fact is that cannabis is included in the first group of illicit drugs in Slovenia, which means that it is a plant or substance that is very dangerous to health due to the severe consequences that its abuse can cause and is not used in medicine. It is no secret, my opinion has always been – since I was Secretary of State for Home Affairs and a student in America – that this is an exaggerated view of hemp crime. I mean, even when I talk to judges and prosecutors about the fact that, with all these numbers, as I told them earlier, prosecution of these crimes places an enormous burden on the system, it places an enormous burden on the whole system. If this money were to be directed at the final stage also in the prevention and other forms of rejection of some, let's say, if you want - the fact is, again, that alcohol is an inappropriate cause of more crimes, even violent crimes, than domestically, smoking grass. I therefore think that the debate on this subject is more than welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request that the answer be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u157	Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your opinion and I am also pleased that the Minister of Health is here. It is true that what you say is an extremely burdened system is precisely because of the persecution of these little offenders. These people who are involved in the pursuit of these could probably be doing other things at that time that would, say, be more necessary. What is the point of my question? They're all supposed to be the same before the law! Just because it is not determined what a small quantity means, it causes great inequalities and a lot of bad will. See, in a small Slovenia that counts a circus of 2 million people, it depends on where you were born and where you live, how you will be punished for the same offence. I don't think that's right. Of course, it is also not right that hemp is so stigmatized and is in the first group, with many international experts explaining how many beneficial effects there are in the case of very small ones – of course minors should be protected from this, but it has much less side effects than alcohol, tobacco smoking and many other things. But to return to the essence of my question: How do you think it's safe that the range of punishment is so great, it's supposed to be from a reminder to a fine, even to a prison sentence, for an identical offense? That's not right, and this has to be resolved systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much. To complete my answer, I give the word mags. Goran Klemenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. There are two possibilities that, if we already have a criminalised case, it criminalises either with a concept such as a smaller amount, allowing the court, especially the courts, to set up some kind of practice that may actually depend on the city to the city, the urban, rural environment, because sometimes it is also a matter of criminal policy. In Slovenia, it has been known for a long time – I think long ago, the coast was significantly more, say, exposed to a significant number of drug problems and it was clear and well known throughout Slovenia between detection and prosecution authorities, judges and perpetrators, for example, that if they arrested you in Cyprus, according to the local word, with a certain amount, you received in principle a higher sentence than if they arrested you in Maribor or in Kranj. This is the reality of criminal proceedings. But look, two options, like I said: either say a smaller amount or say two grams. Then you have someone with 2,001 grams. Then there is the question of equality or inequality. As long as we have such an arrangement that this case is criminalised, we will not be able to avoid it. Injustice in some ways also becomes when you have a precise legal definition of what is a small amount, but each. This is like pensions or some other criteria, when you say: one who receives up to 200 euros, one who gets 201 euros will fall into another category. Thus, there is a growing case law in this area. I want to say it again, and here I agree with you. Look, let's say my faith in the need to take a step forward here is not some hippie mentality, but the fact that in this area – even in America where they have taken steps forward in this area, much support has been experienced by the judiciary, the police and the general authorities of detection and persecution, because they are aware that the contribution of society to the persecution of these acts is disproportionate, usually by what comes out. This does not mean, however, that there is no need to take the medical and medical profession seriously in this debate either, or in particular. But I'll never forget if you let me finish this. I myself faced this debate for the first time when I studied in America and where I was taught criminal law by Professor Philip Haven, who for a number of years was the first deputy chief U.S. Attorney and one of the biggest advocates of decriminalisation of certain drugs, because he was aware of what this was doing to the entire criminal justice system at the expense of the various preventive programmes that could be targeted both against drugs and alcoholism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u161	Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! I did not intend to take advantage of this procedural proposal, but because I hear that it is so acceptable that, for example, in Primorsk, where more cannabis users or other drugs are supposed to be, the penalties are higher than, say, in Ljubljana, where there are fewer, it seems completely unacceptable to me. I think that given how much tax money these are essentially small offenses when both the judiciary and the police are burdened with this, I think we should discuss this at the next meeting, especially because we are all the same before the law and we cannot be the statistical number of the person who decides on the amount of the penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Škoberne will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u163	Madam Vice-President, distinguished ministers, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Last week, a professional conference was held in Turin, as well as a political consultation on the achievement of the objectives and points of the European Social Charter, which took place in 1996. At the hearing of various experts from different countries, as well as various political function holders, it was found that one of the main problems in Europe today, but also broader, the presence of atypical forms of work, the presence of exaggeration and the related fact that in Europe, and of course the wider world, many people can no longer live with dignity from their work; that many people – we must say this honestly – still have in Slovenia a contract of work for an indefinite period of time with only an illusion of some possibility, and that a contract of time for a wide variety of employers an excuse to extend indefinitely from a worker to a certain way of being loyal, more work in exchange for the fact that they do not have the same rights as they would have with a contract for an indefinite period of time. What I am interested in at this point is – given that Slovenia has economic growth, that even through the effects of your ministry's actions the last two mandates we are aware of a higher employment rate, i.e. lower unemployment, the ability of the economy to work, and through other social conditions, the presence of a positive framework of understanding of work: Will the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take a step further in ensuring that a decent work will also be able to lead a decent and good life? Will it address the issue of the presence of atypical forms of work in our legislation and in the economic space as a serious problem? As, for example, in the past week, he was addressed by several representatives of different countries through the question of whether the 1996 European Social Charter even answers the key questions, as well as today's question: Can we only solve key issues in the labour market through existing legislation? A decent job is a matter of interest to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for the question, Mr Member. I am pleased that on Monday we started a public hearing on one important document, which is called a decent work with which the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities launched a broader public debate on how to ensure decent work for all workers and workers in our country. With this document, which is a public debate, we propose certain measures, which are part of a broader public debate, with 1. 4. We will also start a debate in the context of social dialogue, which is crucial to the issue of labour market resolution. Now maybe a minute to get into the trouble itself. In fact, with changes in the labour market, where we are constantly looking for a new balance between safety and flexibility, in order to ensure decent work for all, we can see that, with past changes, both with DR 2013 and then with the Law on the Prevention of Work on the Black, the Regulation of Student Work, the Agency's work, by extending the competence of inspection of work, we have made certain movements in the difference between the indefinite period of employment and the fixed time of employment that we have brought these worlds, which were previously very separate, closer. The data show that many graphs are available that after the reform more jobs are concluded for an indefinite period of time, especially in young people. Before the reform, this blue column, now we're in green. For young people, it's more obvious, but we're still there for 20 percent of the newly concluded contracts, which are for an indefinite period of time. At the same time, there is an ever-increasing problem with employment contracts that are outside employment or employment contracts. We are talking about student work, occasional and temporary work, civil contracts, copyrights, crafts, fake essays, which are becoming a growing problem. Speaking of decent work, we are talking about the need for all forms of work to have equal economic, social and also equal legal security. These forms, which I mentioned earlier, do not actually have, absolutely not, anything comparable to both economic, social and legal security. Economic security is measured by a minimum wage; therefore, whether these forms have the same minimum hourly rate. We have ensured this in our student work, with individual solutions, but we will need a comprehensive review, and above all we are trying to address this issue in a systematic way primarily to prevent what is false – in the sense that the Labour Relations Act clearly states that if it is part of the working relationship in the sense that someone works in the employer's premises, working according to his instructions, is in an independent relationship. This does not have to be an independent entrepreneur because they are part of a working relationship and a contract of employment needs to be concluded. How are we going to address this? The same applies to student work, for all these other forms outside the employment contract. It is a matter of proposing measures – increasing the powers of inspection, including FURS – in particular as regards this Article 13 of the Labour Relations Act, and then second awareness and information. Today, many workers and workers still do not know where to turn, what their rights are. Therefore, the role of trade unions and others involved in this area is also common. Thirdly, the issue of the reasons for this situation will also have to be addressed, and this is a question of labour costs, which are still significantly different when it comes to espacies as in employment contracts. There will need to be a search for tax reform here, because we are talking about three functions of tax reform in terms of addressing the benefits, on the other hand, the issue of flexibility is that employers must also be given the opportunity to work for workers who do not have to work because there are problems in their relationship so that they can also be dismissed in the right way by protecting the rights of workers. At the same time, we will strengthen an active employment policy and broader one. It is therefore an attempt to achieve a new balance between security and flexibility – we are aware – in a very sensitive and properly managed social dialogue, that there will be no feeling that we want to harm anyone. In particular, we want to ensure decent work for all employees, for all workers and workers and, in fact, give young people the opportunity to be employed for an indefinite period of time. Because if we leave things the way they are, this situation that we have today will unfortunately only deepen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. Respectable to both ministers, Minister! Allow me to ask the Minister of Health a question. Nothing out of the ordinary is going to happen if I say or start: health, health, health. Who doesn't want it, and who just isn't ready to do and give up a lot for it? In fact, this is nothing out of the ordinary, given that this is the basis for everything else. That's why I've been following with a lot of concern or looking at the data from the Health Insurance Office that I saw recently. Indeed, they say that in the field of the system, the so-called system, we have a comprehensive concern for the health of workers and workers, a considerable problem. In 2015, almost 10 million lost working days were recorded at the Institute of Health Insurance. 10 million lost working days due to injury or illness! In other words, that means that about 37,000 people are left out of work each day. During the previous year, there were as many as 3,000 people out of work per day more than a year earlier, according to 2014. In short, it's obvious over the years that these data indicate that these deficits are increasing. Of course, the reasons are different, but the most important is the insufficient and obviously ineffective system of comprehensive care for the health of employees, which, last but not least, also affects and ensures the early return of healthy and particularly motivated workers to the workplace. It's practical to look at these numbers, which is a comprehensive social problem. That's why I'm asking you: If, or at all, and what changes do you intend to make in order to improve the situation in the area of integrated care for the health of employees? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Mrs María Milojka Kolar Celarc, to give her answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Once again, thank you very much for this question, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Indeed, health is an important quality, or desire, of all of us, for in many polls we put health first. And health is also the basis and basis for good and successful work and also life by both the individual and the society as a whole, if you want to work for every work organisation. Investing in health and prevention of employees is therefore particularly important in the case of fast-growing society and also in the case of the extension of retirement age. In addition to the provision on safety and health at work, the 2011 Law on Safety and Health introduced a special novelty, namely the obligation to implement health promotion programmes in the workplace. Because we are all aware, especially employers, that investing in health brings important gains to such employees if you want to, to increase economic growth, reduce abstention and, of course, say, have very important impacts. Firstly, it significantly reduces the impact of the various risk factors of the most common chronic disease, which we know to be one, in terms of financial burdens already today, and this will be even greater in the future. Secondly, these investments in prevention and health improve the organisational climate, productivity and competitiveness of businesses. A third related feature related to the promotion of health is that it reduces the direct and indirect financial burden both due to the treatment of illness, injury and abstention. And a fourth important advantage for the implementation of these programmes is to promote social inclusion and cohesion. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with all social partners, has already issued guidelines for the implementation of health promotion projects in the workplace, with a particular focus on the specifics of small and micro enterprises. Through special public calls from the Health Insurance Office, which has already co-financed a number of social partners' projects, we have also expanded the network of organisations that implement or actively support health promotion programmes and projects over the past few years. Thus, many good practices and tools have already been developed in Slovenia, which are spreading in the Slovenian space. Even as you rightly mentioned, health abstention in Slovenia is a major problem. It is true that the numbers are moving – for example, in 2014 the rate of abstention decreased compared to 2005. For example, in 2005 it was 4.3% and in 2014 it was 3.8%. This is said to be the case, some movements are already visible, but additional measures and all attention will be needed in order to continue this trend and to reduce this rate. In the last few years, however, there has been some other problem, which is called presentationism, which is actually also worrying because sick people actually walk and work for various reasons. Which, I'm going to say, is actually the opposite direction. That is why it must be – and the estimates show and I will tell you in numbers, including according to medical records, that this abstention costs about €450 million directly and indirectly twice as much, almost €950 million. Many preventive measures are also provided for in our resolution as a strategic document.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have a request to complete the interview. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Minister, you said that individual measures apply from the 2011 amendment of the law. Of course, we are now talking about your mandate, what you are about to do in these two years or what you will do. Given that you are otherwise showing some data compared to 2005 to today, I have provided data from 2014, 2015 and show growth. I agree that this other phenomenon certainly means an additional problem again, which suggests that social distress in Slovenia is so much greater that people can't even go on sick leave because they just don't know how to spend a month. But there is another problem. Look, there were 4 thousand 589 people on sick leave last year for over a year. There have also been cases of people suffering from severe illness for more than ten years. I think that this is a huge burden for the whole system, and probably the solution of some other form for such patients would certainly help on the one hand, I don't know, to hire other workers and for these some lasting solution, and not to constantly visit doctors and then try to enforce their disability and so on. In short, that is why, Minister – I will not continue – I really call for the good of the country, because we are really talking about a broader problem, which is certainly also related to work, family and employment, consider some additional measures. For prevention is certainly the best measure, but obviously in a given situation what citizens and citizens face today in jobs, mobile forms and everything else is obviously not enough, and there may be reasons to find elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you. I would just like to add that we will have some concrete solutions already this year, where we will have long regulated the entire area of occupational diseases, which unfortunately has been unregulated for many years. However, that we have indeed managed to bring the matter so far, in spite of coordination with everyone, I think we will settle it by autumn at the latest. Another thing you mentioned. Yeah, those very long hospitals. However, these matters will be settled in the Health and Insurance Act in an appropriate manner, which is also envisaged to be actually prepared and, I hope, also adopted this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. In the village of Györkös Žnidar, which is excusedly absent, as well as the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Morak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary, the other ministers! I'm going to answer both questions. I expect that from the area where the Minister of Labour, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, will be touched, her answer will be, and in the second part, of course, the question to the Minister of Home Affairs. By adopting the New Law on Foreigners in March 2014, third-country nationals wishing to stay and work in the Republic of Slovenia shall obtain a uniform residence and work permit. This authorisation was replaced by two licences, namely residence permit for reasons of employment and work permit. In Novi Slovenija we did not oppose this solution because it meant decommissioning the state authorities of bureaucratic work in two separate procedures and reducing the time limits for issuing a single permit from 90 days to 60 days. Certainly, in the light of today's migration crisis and high unemployment rates, it is important that the influx of third-country nationals from foreigners is regulated in a way that ensures work and social security first of all for Slovenian citizens and citizens of the remaining Member States of the European Union. It is true that this amendment of the Foreigners Act has also been adopted due to the fact that in Slovenia there is a lack of certain deficit professions, which makes it necessary to employ third-country nationals, sometimes also necessary to ensure normal functioning in certain companies and often also in public services. Therefore, with respect to the Minister, the uniform residence and work permit shall apply from 1 September 2015 and I am interested in: How many uniform residence and work permits have been issued at this time? Are these licences only issued for deficient professions? Who is responsible for exercising control over their issue? How many regular checks have been carried out and how many extraordinary checks have been carried out since the implementation of the uniform residence and work permit? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Emissaries and Members of Parliament, distinguished Iva Dimic! We have also tried to coordinate the answer with the Minister of the Interior by answering all four questions. The first was: How many uniform residence and work permits were issued at this time? So it's since 1. 9. 2015 to 20. 3. In total, 9 thousand 59 single residence and work permits were issued, of which 3 thousand 597 first single licences and 5 thousand 462 single renewal licences or extension of temporary residence permits due to employment or work. So most were those where there were existing and extensions. Are these licences only issued for deficient professions? It should be known that when we have introduced a single authorisation, the arrangements are the same in terms of labour market control, which is a condition for authorisation. In particular, a single residence and work permit shall be issued for various purposes as defined by the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act. In principle, foreigners may obtain a uniform residence and work permit on the basis of: employment with a Slovenian employer, the provision of work under civil law contracts or the provision of cross-border services with posted workers. Accordingly, we stress that single licences are not only issued for deficient professions; the key market protection mechanism is the so-called labour market control, which has previously been identical or now identical. This means that foreigners can be employed in our vacancies, which cannot be filled with the relevant unemployed persons registered in our unemployment records. In the event that the Employment Office finds that there are no suitable persons in the unemployment register for the employment of a particular job, the employer shall be allowed to employ a foreigner. This has always been, before and now the same, only that the procedures have been brought together, how the control of the situation on the labour market is and how the administrative unit then issues a common single authorisation. It's important to point out that we're at the Ministry when we were 14. This year, the Regulation sets out four professions on the basis of an initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and others which are so highly deficient that a permit can be issued more quickly without the control of the labour market. This is about drivers in international traffic, welders, sawmills and tools. For these four professions alone, we have made an exception that there is no control of the labour market, at the initiative of the employers involved. Who is responsible for exercising control over their issue? A single residence permit shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of the Aliens Act by an administrative unit with the consent of the authority responsible for the employment and work of foreigners, that is, the Employment Office, the implementation of the provisions of the Aliens Act governing the issuance of a single licence, and shall exercise administrative oversight at the administrative units of the Ministry of the Interior. Administrative control shall determine the regularity and legality of the issuing of a single authorisation, and only in the part relating to the residence of a foreigner, but shall not establish the regularity and legality of the consent given to issue a single authorisation. However, the work inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for overseeing the implementation of this work. In part, the police are responsible for overseeing the implementation of this, especially in terms of the legality of the residence of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia. How many regular and extraordinary controls have been carried out? From 1 September 2015 to today, the labour control inspectors carried out 4 000 743 checks on all the legislation they cover. So they don't separate what happened with the aliens and the issue of permits. There have been 19 violations of this law on foreigners and on the employment of foreigners, but there are still violations under the old law, as in the vast majority of them are still in force permits that have been issued before. In this regard, we stress that with regard to the employment of foreigners, the number of infringements directly related to this foreign employment legislation is declining compared to the general violations that are still on the rise – for example, infringements of the provisions of working time, i.e. overtime, safety and health at work and where there is an increase. In short, I mean, there's nothing to be afraid of. This single authorisation from the point of view of market control has left everything the way it was before. In the employment of foreigners, it is always the first control of the labour market, but in these four professions we simply have such a deficit that it is, of course, a control of the labour market, which takes some time to exempt others from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u179	In view of the recent alarming discoveries by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia on violations of the law of the Forest Economy, in the Marof Business Unit, the third and other employers who worked in their premises, in Nova Slovenija we point out that the findings of the Inspectorate for the Work of the Republic of Slovenia were already in April 2015, which in this Marof Trade business unit found violations of the labour law and employment regulations in the black sector of workers from third countries. Unfortunately, today we also note from yesterday's meeting that there is simply no solution in this direction and there is a repetition of the same violations and insufficient and ineffective sanctioning of offenders. That is why, a respected minister or a minister, I would still like to receive an answer: How many third-country workers working in the Postojna forest economy has the Marof Trade Business Unit been granted uniform residence and work permits in accordance with the Foreigners Act? How many violations have been detected? How many measures have been taken under this heading in the Marof Trade Business Unit? I would also like to receive an answer, which I did not receive yesterday at an extraordinary meeting of the committee: How many companies in Slovenia employ workers through employment agencies? I think that's the key issue. If we knew how much we had where these workers were, all control would be much easier and more effective, because all those who would employ workers in this way would know that they are in some system, that they could be under control and that the violations and abuses of these people would be much smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you. I'd be happy to provide you with the information, but I don't know how long it's been. I can answer what has been asked because we are preparing ourselves in terms of services to provide data. That is why the more general question in this work is that you went to the story of the terrible exploitation of workers. Unfortunately, yesterday, when the debate was held, we told what was done, which measures, including control and everything. The stories we see on TV make us all equally amazed, as well as the inspections coming and banning decisions issuing. The Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work is in the story of Marof and associated octopuses of 20 companies not only 2015, before. In fact, in the country, we were able to adopt an amendment to the Economic Society Act, which prohibits the establishment of new and new companies, the chain of companies, only with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Not even that. They've put everything in stock before. The problem is, the inspection will come – even if the fine is too low, let's leave it – issue a restraining order, the next day these workers are too busy for a new society. It's simple - I can't say otherwise - it's a crime We can give an inspection I don't know what kind of authority it is, but as long as it can happen that companies will be set up, that companies will be stocked to transfer workers from one company to another, so long as an inspection of the issue can't know how many prohibition decisions can benefit a company that has no establishment capital. [[…]] In fact, here is not only a problem of the Labour Relations Act, if it is, we are ready to change immediately. You must know, all the changes in strengthening inspection have been accepted since 2014, everything has been in agreement with the social partners. I always say, if you have, tell me what else you need, we'll be happy to fix it. But the problem is that things are so interdependent that actually A1 forms, if you want, employment of foreigners through posted workers. [[…]] It was a story that we coordinated with the Department of Health Insurance, how it's gonna be. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 4. The ESS will have a new law on posted workers to resolve this. We are saving, but unfortunately it is too late for all of these workers, because it takes us in the country to harmonise legislation to negotiate it and to take it out. We are trying, but actually without any common cooperation of all and also the fact that it is unacceptable in society, we will be very difficult because in the final phase the Penal Code can write no punishment for drivers who are drunk driving on our roads – unfortunately we will still find drunk drivers. But the fact is, when it comes to the issue of vulnerable workers, it takes so much greater responsibility on the part of the State to try to ensure that this is not the case. [[...]] On the other hand, we have a social dumping problem within the European Union, within the free movement; not just Slovenian workers, when the whole model, which is today within the European Union, is the European Commission's proposal for a new – it revises this directive on posted workers. And it's going to be hard, and we're going to find a hard consensus because one of the interests of employers is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u183	Of course, my procedural proposal is to have a broader debate mainly because I think it is necessary to establish a system to see which companies in Slovenia employ workers through employment agencies. I think that it is not only foreigners coming from abroad who need to be employed, migrant workers need to be employed, that our citizens need to be protected, and that our citizens also need to be employed through these agencies, and that we need to have supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mrs Erika Dekleva will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Minister and Minister! On the 21st day. 3. The European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety visited Slovenia, and as Minister of Health, you had the opportunity to discuss current health content with him. Over the past period, we have heard a lot of criticism at the expense of the Ministry of Health's work that the Ministry's actions are too slow and too analytically targeted. We know that, as Minister, you have repeatedly pointed out that the analysis of the healthcare system and the Resolution on the National Health Plan from 2016 to 2025, under the heading Together for the Health Society, are important starting documents for all further activities related to the preparation or renovation of health legislation. That's why I want to know: What is the European Commission's opinion on the current work of the Ministry of Health in this mandate? At least: How does the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety assess these analytical proposals, objectives and follow-up measures, including the proposed legislative changes? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this question. I will be happy to respond to it, as the recent visit by the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, Mr Andriukaitis, to me and to all my colleagues at the Ministry of Health has been very successful and encouraging. I am convinced that his recognition of the tasks we have performed in this mandate at the Ministry of Health, as well as all the guidelines for further work, is a tribute not only to our ministry but also to the entire government. Unfortunately, on behalf of the Commissioner, I cannot speak, but I can summarise what he said in his statement to the public and to the media. He praised the extremely comprehensive and comprehensive plan for the preparation of the Slovenian health reform, which he thought was going in the right direction. He was pleased that he had arrived in Slovenia just at the right time, because, as we know, Parliament will consider this very March meeting, or specifically on Tuesday – and I believe that it has also adopted, by a majority, a strategic document for the next decade. I must say that he congratulated us and expressed his appreciation for the approach, the work done and the analysis done. I must say that by nature I am a modest person, so I must say that I have been and have accepted with all due respect his congratulations in this work, because he said that he is aware that health reforms are a very difficult provision in every country for any government, because he himself was a minister and he knows how difficult it is to reconcile all the many interests that interact in the health field. In particular, the Commissioner stressed or welcomed our focus on prevention, which is also part of our action in the resolution, and particularly welcomed all proposed measures and legislative changes, saying this so-called tobacco law, which is in public debate. He also praised the Law on Pharmacy, which is also in public debate. In particular, he stressed that we should make very good use of the opportunity to jointly define all the risk factors for our health, which are tobacco, that is, smoking, limiting alcohol consumption, using excessive amounts of salt, poor fats, bad physical activity, because all of these are the factors of the greatest risk to our healthy life and also to the emergence of chronic diseases, which we know will have a number of financial consequences for us, an ageing population, and great expenditure. As you may have seen in the media, he has also touched on waiting times and on the journalist's question of what he thinks about our waiting times, he said, of course, that waiting times are encountered in all the countries of the European Union and even more so because these waiting times are present everywhere. But this is what we do, but we manage these waiting periods effectively. Because I explained to him our approach to the pilot project, he particularly commended him as a good example, and when the results were made, he said that this could also be a recommendation for other countries. He also met with a research group that had discovered the link between an infection with the zika virus and microcephalia and specifically offered to join the European research reference network in addition to the tender on which they could run. Basically, he even gave his support. As I know, he also met with the committee presidents here, in Parliament, and I believe that you will all accept or unanimously support us and vote on a strategic document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question is addressed to the Minister because of the problem of milk purchases in Slovenia. 13. 3. I also watched TV, the People and the Earth show, where the Minister was with coastal affiliates and talked mainly about the issue of milk purchases and addressed the responsibility of all these cooperatives buying milk or then exporting milk abroad, as if no one else had any responsibility. But I was surprised to see why such a speech. Probably because the real crisis is just coming or has not yet reached our farmers. Milk production represents about 15 per cent of all agricultural production in Slovenia, milk is exported about 40 per cent of everything organised in Slovenia and many of this milk goes through various associations that combine farmers and then sell abroad. Given that the price in the open market is significantly lower than the purchase price in us and as its own price, farmers are very concerned. You, Minister, just said you've been warning me for four years. Even if you remember, for several years on the agricultural committees, I am reminding you of what will happen when the milk quotas end. In the meantime, the Russian embargo, which has further threatened dairy production with us, has come because most of our farms are farming on agricultural land with limited factors, which means that they are not competitive with foreign farmers and therefore our farming is even more sensitive. That's why I'm interested, Minister: What has the Ministry of Agriculture done in all these years against this or to protect these farmers, especially dairy production, from this crisis? Do you have anything ready to alleviate this crisis in the farmers themselves?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magi Food will reply. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you, Chairman. A nice welcome to all Members of Parliament and also to you, Mr Lah, for a very current issue. First of all, it's a direct question, as it was written, whether we're preparing for a possible [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u192	Hello. I'm sorry, it doesn't look like it's filming right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u193	I'm sorry. Are we preparing for a possible purchase of milk by the state if they are surpluses? The country has not been able to make purchases of milk at national level since we are members of the European Union, due to the common agricultural policy, because such market measures are only joint measures at European Union level. The fact is, as you have rightly found, that at this time 61.8 percent, the data is for January, the milk is purchased by Slovenian dairy producers, and the rest goes to export, mainly to Italy, but also to other markets, such as Croatia and also to Austria. Milk production is increasing, and almost every month we are growing by an additional 8 or 7 percent — the last three months. We have already met with Slovenian dairy companies, all Slovenian dairy companies make a commitment this year to increase the purchase from their contractual partners by 5 to 10 percent. We have also been warned by the cooperative system that many cooperatives exporting to foreign markets or at least some contracts fall in April and should be extended. That is why this was my message or my warning several times, even because I remember the crisis that was similar in 2008, 2009, 2010. What measures are currently being implemented? However, we are mainly performing them at European level later, because I expect you to give an additional question, but I will tell you what measures we agreed on by 2014 and how we are implementing them – those that can only be implemented in Slovenia. We had an extraordinary crisis meeting of agricultural ministers shortly ago, and we agreed on the following. First, we make an accelerated purchase, a public intervention buyout in large quantities of skimmed milk powder, we raised the whole amount from 100,000 tonnes to 218 thousand tonnes. We're doing an intervention buy-in at this point, we've raised the amount from 50,000 to 100,000 tons. Everything, of course, aims to free up the European market. We continue to implement aid for private storage of butter, skimmed milk powder and cheese. This measure is aimed at making this raw material available when there is a greater demand – not now, but sometime later, during the year. Thirdly, we have increased the funds by €30 million to promote European milk and pigmeat in third markets. For the last two weeks, this is a Slovenian measure, we are paying double the aid we have received from the European Union, Slovenian bovine and porcine farms. Since the beginning of this year, we have been implementing a special measure called Animal Welfare, which is intended as an additional resource of approximately €5 million per year for beef farms through the welfare of the country. Perhaps the information, now you will know as one of the first in this country, has just informed us that Commissioner Hogan has signed our new measure so that we will easily implement it throughout the year. What we are talking to the Commission and the European Investment Bank right now is to make us a special line of export co-financing so that customers outside the European Union get co-financing from the European Union in order to actually make it easier to redeem in third countries. We have also agreed on a special shift from the European acquis in a way that can voluntarily implement a milk purchase reduction scheme through a reduction in production, but in fact this measure is voluntary and will now be the legal basis for how some dairy farmers will benefit from this measure, as it is implemented at dairy level, by increasing the price of milk for those farms that will reduce production. What does it look like in practice? For example, in Austria, in the Netherlands, a large number of dairy farmers have decided to set a base price, perhaps 27 cents, and if the farm decides to supply only 95 percent of the quantity from last year, they add a cent or two. More later than that, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u195	Mr. Minister: Do you think that all these measures will be sufficient for farmers to compensate for this loss of income according to the price of milk in relation to all this quantity? Farmers are concerned, however, I do not think the country has enough money to make up for reaching at least its own price for milk production. Hasn't the dairy industry been underdeveloped in these years? As we know, the majority of Ljubljana's dairy, which buys most of all the processed milk in Slovenia, is no longer in our possession. Does the Ministry have any chance of affecting these processors to buy milk? Does the State have any other option to bridge this lack of farmers' income? It is also interesting in this letter sent by these associations to you, where it is also reported that it has not been done enough by the State to process this milk, because in the end all this crisis falls on the farmer and the processing industry continues to keep the same profit. The question is whether they will have 50 percent more milk from abroad, whether they will buy more from our farmers. However, since agricultural policy and agri-consultation services are within your competence, I believe that in all these years it has been too small for the Ministry to be a policy. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dejan Jidan will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u197	You have rightly concluded that no intervention can compensate for the loss caused by the price decrease. For example, the current estimate is that, compared to prices from one and a half years ago, the average Slovenian agricultural area loses 40 million euros due to lower prices. However, if I tell you how much the average European agricultural area in raw milk is losing, there are billions. No intervention can make up for that. We must be careful, even when new measures are being sought, the new measures will not have new money at European Union level, but will draw on the so-called crisis reserve. What's a crisis reserve? The crisis reserve basically means reducing direct payments or subsidies, if you want, to create some kind of fund to take agriculture back to agriculture. Therefore, intervention cannot essentially recover this difference due to a low price. I would like to make it very clear that no government, neither Slovenian nor any other, can run business; neither the buyers' business nor the processing industry's business. What we can do is make the investment money available. And we gave it to him. The largest investment was made in the dairy industry in Slovenia. It is true that the largest dairy shop that buys just over 50 percent of raw milk sold in Slovenia is in foreign ownership. We also probably both know that the cooperative system meant to buy and were too short for just a few million because one part of Slovenia decided or their cooperative systems would not cooperate. There are also some dairy shops in Slovenia and also owned by farmers through cooperatives. At least three could count. But to avoid advertising, some cooperatives also own Slovenian dairy shops. How do we proceed now? The fact is, we have a bad ten years ago. As a result of a small difference abroad, some have begun to redirect through their cooperatives to foreign sales. When production increased abroad, our farmers or sellers were the first to lose their jobs there. Then this milk came back and then actually destroyed the Slovenian market. This was in 2009 – I think. This was what I had warned for four years to look for Slovenian buyers. The agreement with Slovenian dairy companies, as far as the minister can do, is such that those who still supply milk from foreign suppliers, cancel contracts and seek Slovenian suppliers to redirect. And I've done something that seems important to me. I've made contact with that country on a political level, and as an agricultural minister, I can't do business. I was with the Italian ambassador, now in the next two, three weeks I will visit Italy twice and, among other things, I will visit one of the largest trading systems precisely for a purpose, together with Slovenian producers, to consolidate or enable sales to continue in this country. However, we are now running out of time, and forgive me if I should mention the seven measures we have implemented since 2014. But these are the measures that we agreed on at the milk conference in Slovenia because we saw in advance that there would be problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Bell Lah, will you request a procedural debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you. I will use this business opportunity to vote on the debate in the National Assembly because the topic, I think, deserves it. It bothers me that the agricultural sector, the Agricultural Advisory Service, which, through the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, has financed 80% by the government or the ministry or the state, has, in recent years, produced business plans for farmers to increase the milking of cows by importing protein feed from abroad to invest in larger barns to take loans for this purpose. Wasn't that a wrong policy if we knew that milk would be too much after the milk quotas were abolished? I think politics was wrong. At times, dairy farmers used to take cheese back instead of payment. Rather, we would not have advised these farmers to undergo conversion into durable products, which could now be sold to China or other non-European countries, because in Europe milk was too much, instead of increasing milk, it was known that they would not be competitive, and now most of those farmers who invested years ago would have gone to large investments, practically hung up. They won't be able to repay their loans and they'll fail. I was happy in this letter that associations that help sell this milk abroad, which extended a few contracts, contrary to what you said would still be selling milk abroad, that it would not be such a shock, but I am afraid that, nevertheless, the vast majority of those who are the most intense in the milk industry, where they have the greatest milk that has the most up-to-date technology and obligation to pay back, will hang up and that no one will see them again, and that the land will remain unprocessed because small farmers are no longer able to work back. I think that the policy has been wrong and that this policy needs to be changed without delay, more should be given to small farms, to mountain farms, because most of this milk prepared on mountain farms is on grass. Here are the options, I just think that time has run out, that we haven't invested enough in the last few years and that there will be a crisis [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday, 29 March. The question will be asked by a magician. Marko Pogačnik to Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u201	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister Milojka Kolar! I would like to ask you a question about homeopathy. In Slovenia, homeopathy can only be carried out by a doctor with acquired knowledge from homeopathy, but Slovenia is still the only country in which, under the Medical Services Act, a doctor is deprived or not licensed for homeopathy and in which a doctor is licensed under the Medicinal Products Act, the only authorised prescriber of medicines for use in human medicine cannot prescribe a homeopathic medicine. Your doctor only uses homeopathic medicines in accordance with the basic principles of homeopathy in homeopathic therapy and because of a lack of legal consistency, your doctor cannot prescribe a homeopathic medicine to your doctor. In December 2014, Members of the Assembly of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia made an important step in recognizing homeopathy as an equivalent form of treatment. Sometime after a heated debate, Members with 40 votes against and 18 votes against decided by the Ministry of Health to propose an amendment to the regulations, so that only homeopathy will no longer be the reason for the withdrawal of the doctor's license. Also, State Secretary Nina Pirnat at the Medical Chamber Assembly ensured that the Ministry would follow full medical decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: What steps has the Ministry already taken in the field of homeopathy? But, above all, I'm interested in one part: When will you send to the National Assembly amendments and supplements to the Health Act, which will regulate the area of homeopathy and will have comparable legislation with other countries of the European Union in the field of homeopathy and its control?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! All you've said is true, the problem in the past was that the Medical Chamber as a cechyov organization of doctors somehow did not decide that homeopathic treatment could also be part of a treatment carried out by a doctor with a license without losing a license. The Ministry of Health appointed last year a working group, an interdisciplinary group, in which they were appointed and included representatives of the Slovenian Medical Chamber, the Slovenian Medical Society, the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor, the Slovenian Homeopathic Society, the Association for Integrative Medicine of Slovenia and representatives of our Ministry of Health and the Inspectorate of Health of the Republic of Slovenia. The Group has met four times and has already prepared a comparative review of these arrangements in other countries, in particular the countries of the European Union, and has also prepared key content that will serve as a basis for the work of this Working Group and for the arrangements at the systematic level of treatment in full with the Health Act and not just the work of homeopathy. With this amendment of legislation, we want to regulate the field of medicine in a way that is comparable to practice in other European countries, to regulate this content as well, where licensed doctors can also carry out part of a medical activity. This work will also address the area of homeopathy and will follow the decision of the Assembly of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and will allow doctors to carry out homeopathic activities in addition to the medical service. However, in accordance with our resolution and our priorities, the adoption of this law will be foreseen for 2017 in accordance with this plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Master Marko Pogačnik, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you, Minister. I'm a little disappointed with your answer, and now you've finally answered me when the Ministry is preparing this matter. Your answer is somehow by the end of 2017. This means that the Medical Chamber adopted a decision in 2014 and you at the Ministry take three years to prepare or align this legislation with the decision. Dear Minister, you have also welcomed at the 4th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 26 January 2015 the proposal of the Assembly of the Medical Chamber to amend the relevant legislation so that just doing homeopathic activity will not be the reason for the withdrawal of a doctor's license. You also announced that the Ministry would take into account the proposal of the Chamber and prepare amendments. Now it takes almost three years for you to make that change? I think this is a little bit unrealistic; it's not serious for all the doctors who are dealing with homeopathy today, and especially for all who are also using homeopathy. In my view, the Minister-designate would simply need to amend the three articles of the Medical Act in order to delete the second paragraph of Article 34 of the Act, in order to delete the fourth paragraph of Article 37 and to delete point 5 of Article 81. That means three articles are needed for a change and you need three years to do it! But here I would like a serious request for further clarification. You've been working on this for three years! And I want to know: Do you also think in this direction that homeopathic medicines or connections, which for homeopathy treatment, would then be included in health insurance — or in basic or supplementary?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you for the additional question, Mr Pogačnik, but I think it is necessary to be very precise, honest and correct here. The Assembly of the Medical Chamber adopted this decision at the end of December 2014. However, if you allow, you might ask the question, how many years did the Medical Chamber not want to hear different initiatives, including the initiatives of the Ministry of Health, to regulate the area of homeopathy. It's like the first time. Therefore, it is not accurate that for 3 years, I said that the working groups are working in which everyone interested in this Slovenia is involved to prepare comparisons and legal reviews, how this is otherwise arranged. Secondly, we cannot solve just homeopathy because – I will say directly – someone sees here certain interests, which also have financial implications behind them. We need to comprehensively regulate the area of medicine, which will also be part of the area of homeopathy. I said it will be adopted in the first half of 2017. Look, the Ministry of Health has 120, 130 people and we're doing a comprehensive reform. However, if for so many years the medicine has not been so important, we cannot place it as a priority, but in changing the health system after so many years other things are much more of a priority. However, this is also done in parallel, but there will be a comprehensive regulation of the entire area of medicine, whose homeopathy is only one part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, will you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u209	Mr President, I did not intend to take advantage of this Rules of Procedure earlier, but, in view of the answers given by the Minister, I will take advantage of the fact that there is a public debate in the National Assembly for several reasons. Dear Minister, you are here to answer questions without asking the National Assembly questions. The fact is, this was not done earlier because the Medical Chamber was also unfavorable. And the fact is, in December 2014, the decision was adopted by 40 votes to 18 with 18 votes against. As I have already mentioned, if any will were likely to be done by the Ministry, this matter could have been done earlier, then send it to the National Assembly of the Law on Changes and Supplements to Medicine and, as I mentioned, in my view, it is only necessary to amend only three articles in the law in order to follow the decision of the Medical Chamber. Three articles. It is right that a complex matter should be seen in its entirety, but if there was a will to take a step forward, I think that could be done. You said you only have 130 employees, and in fact you have not yet prepared any serious health reforms that are so urgently needed! How many laws have you prepared in your mandate or have you placed in the National Assembly? Here, however, it is only, in my opinion, that the three articles should be amended; Article 34, where the second paragraph is deleted, Article 37, is deleted; and Article 81, paragraph 5 is deleted. This would follow the decision of the Medical Chamber where this case was adopted. For this reason, I propose that a public debate be held in this area in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished minister, nice greeting! In recent times, there have been quite a few issues in the media regarding anti-group fences on the highway network, especially in the section between Celje and Dramalja and between Celje and Arja village. These articles stress that these anti-group fences do not achieve the effects originally planned, and this raises quite a few questions. Of course, first of all, whether these tenders were actually submitted together with design. In short, if this broadcast was in the package and also related to these insulating sound effects. Of course, I am also surprised that no domestic contractor was selected in the procurement process, so that we had to give the work to foreigners. Of course, this is also linked to the use of European funds, but it also raises the question whether they are at risk here. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What are the actual effects of these anti-group fences on these two sections? In fact, what will be the further dynamics in setting up anti-group fences on the highway network?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister of Infrastructure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you, President, for your word, for the question put by Mr Ljub Žnidar. As is probably known to all, Dars, the project to build these anti-group fences was fully led by these procurement procedures, so that these details, I must say, at this point I do not know, so that I can answer these questions another time. However, the Ministry took part in this project exclusively in the part relating to the provision of European funds, so that all the rest of the calls, the selection of operators, materials and so on were led by Dars. The main purpose of the anti-group fences is, of course, to protect the inhabitants from excessive noise loads, which are the two characteristics of these anti-group fences, one being isolation. This is the property that the anti-group fence prevents the sound from passing over the fence to that side towards the objects that are being protected. Another important feature is the absorption of sound itself, which is the property to reduce sound reflection from the fence to the opposite side of the highway; in short, towards objects on the opposite side. As part of the implementation of these field measurements, which were also carried out on the basis of contractual requirements, it was found that certain counter-group panels of a particular manufacturer do not achieve this measured value of isolation but achieve this required level of absorption. All types of anti-group panels installed on these sections from Dramalj to Celje and from Celje to Arje village have this C certificate obtained by the manufacturer on the basis of a typical anti-group panel test performed in an appropriate authorised laboratory according to European standards, which is then also a condition that these panels can be installed. In accordance with this Treaty, it was required that this verification of the actual acoustic properties of the anti-group fences, which are then achieved in an embedded state on the ground, be carried out before taking over the anti-group fences. As part of these field measurements, the contractor of the construction of these anti-group fences found that the measured insulation of the fences where the panels of this particular manufacturer were used did not meet these contractual requirements. The results were subsequently confirmed by laboratory measurements and showed lower values than those declared in this C certificate. The measurements also confirmed that the anti-group fences, where the panels of other manufacturers are installed, have appropriate acoustic properties. So only one part of these panels is not appropriate. It should also be pointed out that the fences are carried out to the intended extent, i.e. by quantity and square meters and so on and also have a certain effect on noise reduction. So we have sufficient absorption, or partial isolation in certain parts. Thus, in the roadside area, this noise, which has been detected, is reduced, thus performing their environmental protection function against noise from the motorway, not to the full extent that this design value, the extent to which the protection must be achieved, is determined in view of also taking into account the increase in traffic loads during the planned 20-year period. Dars then called on the contractor to remedy the deficiencies identified, then he did not follow this call and Dars withdrew from the contract in accordance with the contractual arrangements. Dars has, on this basis, adequate financial collateral for the good performance of the contractual works to be used in the follow-up to the recovery of this fence. First, documentation will be obtained for this rehabilitation and then a new call will be made for the implementation of this rehabilitation. This will also help to achieve the objective of the project, which requires improving this protection of residents against excessive noise from highways. In view of this, it will also not be jeopardised to draw on these European funds, so we expect that if this is to be done within the next two years, these resources will not have to be reimbursed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar requests to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u215	Dear Minister, thank you very much for the detailed information and these answers. It is clear and evident from these answers that the actual responsibility is on the part of the operator which does not actually achieve those effects which have been requested. I am interested in the future and the continuation of similar cases, so to speak, in the further construction of anti-group fences on motorway networks, especially in the context of changes in public procurement, so that domestic operators can actually access these transactions. In this way we somehow protect and support the domestic economy and, of course, it is easier to solve such problems with operators, such as this example, especially in these difficult economic times of crisis. There is no secret that it is very difficult for neighbours in the Republic of Austria to have a foreign contractor in the field of construction to do business in Austria. In Slovenia, however, we are extremely generous, extremely open and, with such a reduction in investment assets, Slovenian construction is absolutely not competitive with foreign builders. Perhaps, Mr. Minister, an additional question: Is it possible for public procurement itself to provide for any measure to underpin the domestic economy?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thank you. Mr. Peter Gaspersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you very much. We all know that public procurement must be transparent, with clear requirements both in terms of quality, deadlines, executions, prices, guarantees and so on, reference, quality; in short, all of this is defined in public contracts and here the criteria must be clear, measurable and, of course, the same for all, regardless of where someone comes from. So now that anything could be done here in order to make calls or even in the law itself to favour anyone, of course I cannot give a positive answer, you will probably agree with that. However, we can always decide in public procurement to give, say, certain characteristics an advantage. There was a lot of talk about why wood is no longer used in the manufacture of anti-group fences. For example, some such criteria could therefore be introduced in public procurement if such products, such materials, meet certain expected quality, sustainability requirements; shortening the impact of choking, the duration of the material itself and so on. If this could help to make some producers of such products more competitive in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, of course it is perfectly legitimate to do so. However, as it has been said, this could not be done in any way in advance. Thus, all these matters will continue to be carried out by Dars, and I am confident that he will use everything necessary to achieve the best possible products for the best money and, of course, within the appropriate quality and deadlines, in the context of the implementation of the anti-group fences, as well as in the design, implementation and preparation of the calls themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, will you request a debate in the National Assembly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u219	Dear Minister! Of course, I agree with you that public calls must be transparent and that the conditions for all are the same. We both agree with that absolutely. However, I do not agree with the fact that for a concrete block that can actually be bricked by every builder in Slovenia, such long-standing references are needed, such a large scale of construction works and so on. The essential element is whether this element achieves the characteristics required by the specified sound parameter in this case. That's essential. And all our public tenders are actually too demanding for the domestic market. Here we take too much of this complexity and these conditions. In Slovenia, the anti-group fence – even when you mentioned, these materials can be different, but depending on, I would say, some design, of course also environmental aspects, also the appearance is very important. In short, a number of aspects of how the approach is, there are also more options. But only the element of absorption or sound protection is essential. All these calls have absolutely harsh conditions, because such a fence can be built by every construction worker in Slovenia, I can say this with certainty because I know the construction profession quite well. As this is an important segment below, the existence of construction, of the urgent work that Slovenian citizens need, I propose that a public debate be held on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, your proposal will be decided by the Assembly on Tuesday, 29. 3. 2016, in the context of the votes cast. Please, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Žnidar. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u221	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague! My question for the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Židan relates mainly to the area of the new perspective that started in 2014 and will continue until 2020. Dear Minister, we have talked about this issue several times before, and we are all aware that the agricultural situation in Slovenia and Europe is extremely difficult, so I think it is very important that this perspective, which is already under way for the second year, starts with calls for proposals, and I would like to ask you the following questions. The three programmes are mainly concerned about farmers, and we have previously listened to our colleague that there are problems in the milk sector, of course, on the mountain farm segment. Many of these farms will certainly fail and will not have the conditions to run for funds. However, it is also a very important area, which I also intend to highlight, which is a young farm taker, a young farm taker programme, I think is particularly important in these difficult times, as I have already mentioned, when the situation is not easy in the field of agriculture. Many times it's hard for someone to decide to stay on the farm. These conditions have become very acute, especially in my mind – and young people can also say that the current owners of farms – are a problem in education. But it's very difficult for us to imagine that there will be someone who intends to take over the farm to go to school. It's not a factory. In a factory it may go to another job, and the fact is that the young people who want to take over this farm, but grew up there, is home there and it is inevitable. However, I would have another area, this is a forest call, and I would point in particular to very difficult, harsh conditions, particularly as regards the control itself. It is unacceptable that farmers who engage in part of forestry as well as other agricultural activities should not use that tractor — for example, if they buy it — for another activity. Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u223	Dear Member – of course to all present once again a nice greeting – thank you also for the current question. Once again, Commissioner Phil Hogan signed the first amendment to the rural development programme today. This is what we have also agreed and promised with Slovenian farmers. In general, what are the changes in agricultural policy in 2016? As far as direct payments are concerned, the change in content is only one, and this is that the envelope for young farmers from 1 per cent, that is 1.4 million euros, increases to 2 million euros, that is 1.5 per cent. That's because there's more young farmers from year to year. However, I must immediately say that all the measures being implemented mean reallocation. In fact, even in this case, when we give additional money to young farmers, the value of direct payments for all decreases by a few percent. I say this because all the measures are such, a bag of money is, as it is, every measure we carry out basically means that we are still inside the envelope. By 2019, we are also in the midst of partial convergence in direct payments, meaning that payments per hectare are slowly approaching both grass and fields by 2019. However, a greater change in direct payments will take place in 2017. And what does that mean? Then we will move the extra money to the areas where it is most difficult to farm, of these 460,000 hectares, I think, 38 thousand, which in practice means that all direct payments are further reduced by 1.89 percent, and thus we move to farms where they grow where the slope is plus 35 or more, plus 50 euros per hectare, where the slope is plus 50 percent, plus 100 euros per hectare. Here I would also like to say that, just this year, as an extremely clever decision made two years ago, it is that we put an additional EUR 5 million into those breeds that produce raw milk due to this price that we expected to be lower on mountain-mountain farms, and we have given additional EUR 4.2 million to all the beef pies. And the second thing is to change the rural development programme, which you asked me. Mr Member, I suggest you then ask another question, because I would like to tell you more. From the agricultural ministry's point of view, the most important measure is the introduction of a new animal welfare measure for grazing cattle, which in practice means that, by financial leverage, farmers who see cattle for at least 120 days of sun are allocated an additional EUR 5 million. In practice, according to current calculations, large livestock, i.e. for average bovine animals, are poor 54 euros per bovine animal per year. However, payments will be the first time these payments are made, and that is also, I think, a very meaningful measure at the moment when the crisis is present, particularly in the beef work or in this part producing raw milk. We are further increasing the co-financing of organic agriculture, increasing it to a hectare of grass from € 136 to € 156. However, we increase from €273 to €312 per hectare in farms, which are on the move. We are also increasing in some way where indigenous breeds have large livestock, from €117 to €194. As far as facilitating the implementation of COPD, i.e. environmental measures, we have agreed on both sectors, namely: fruit, wine growing, agriculture, water-related land or protected land, and, in the case of habitat operations, some simplifications, which in practice means that we are expecting 100 new farmers here. At this point, the subsidy campaign is taking place, and I must say that according to current data it is also quite successful; and we are also introducing some new measures in wine growing. But later, if you'll excuse me, I'll answer your second question and everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you, Minister! Surely both of us and all of us in the hall are aware of difficult situations. But it's a fact you can't get past. Many times I feel that in all the areas for which you have given me an answer, things are certainly sitting down, but knowing is often sad when we make our conditions too harsh. You know how to say this very well, but often in practice, when someone does something, things get tougher. Of course, especially when I was talking about young takeovers, about some calls, of course, this is our future. I think it will be very difficult for us today to figure out what will happen after 2020, I fear those times, but every year we must take advantage now. Of course, the ministry or the state, the government must bring these funds as close to the farmer as possible and as easily as possible. Of course, no one will be given anything, but I don't think it's right that sometimes in some areas we get too tighter and, of course, this tightening then these funds, instead of bringing them closer to the farmer, we put them away. Dear Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u227	Commissioner, I fully agree with you that the implementation of agricultural policy is complex, and what I would like to say is that, after the calculation of German experts, the new agricultural policy has become more complicated by 15 per cent. At the same time, I would like to say, but it is also related to the controls and requirements that are linked, in the implementation of the old agricultural policy right now, in my opinion, sometimes because of the possible failure to comply with the rules of the European Union by farmers and companies, I think that almost EUR 28 million, and this is also the approximate amount of penalties that we have suffered in the last seven or eight years, I think that we have also paid for some simplifications that we have carried out in Slovenia. It is therefore important to be very careful, and the level of risk in the complex agricultural policy is exceptional. Now, allow some very specific answers. For young entrepreneurs in the old period, there is also an education requirement, because the European legal order also requires it, by applying one simplification in Slovenia at the time, which proved to be bad. In particular, it was such that young takers who do not yet have a candidate, and then in a transitional period, I think it was three years old, get an appropriate education. Why did this prove to be bad? Because we've had a lot of cases where people haven't done that, and now they have to pay money back with a lot of pain. Under the new rules, it starts essentially with vocational secondary school and then forwards, and it is permitted to do so. However, it is also important to say that it is for agriculture that we have found that one of the major ones in development was the inadequate educational structure of our farmers. Nevertheless, last year's call for young takeovers was successful. Just yesterday we had a meeting with young takeovers, a lot of them came. In this invitation to tender, they received a positive decision of almost 240. We expect ourselves to get about 250 plus, minus 20, thirty new young takeovers each year. In fact, this is essentially the group of people on which the largest future of Slovenian agriculture lies. We have also decided to work with them in the next five years. As far as the forest calls are concerned, I must say that these calls will now be made. In two weeks' time, the first big call will be and then the next big call. I also urge those who now listen to us to be ready to sign up. Another simplification is, as far as tenders are concerned, the threshold for investments is the tendering threshold, raising from 50,000 to 200,000 for simple investments. This is an agreement with our farmers, because there is a need to prepare some less documentation. In addition, the limit of 20,000 will now be the one where it will have to be kept at least simply, this is farm accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u229	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to ministers and ministers! Dear Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, I ask: What is happening with regard to the signed letter of intent concerning the acquisition or links between Elektro Gorenjska and Kelag in connection with the acquisition of this segment of hydropower plants and small hydro power plants managed by Elektro Gorenjska? We probably all agree that both the European Union's and our countries' objectives are to ensure as much renewable energy as possible in the energy balance. The agreements are signed somewhere by 2020. I therefore ask whether there is any change in the country's strategy on this, because in the event of some realisation of this agreement and the acquisition of these power plants by Kelaga, it happens to us that certain renewable resources go to the balance sheet of someone who is not from our country. This, in a way, weakens our position. On the other hand, all these power plants on the watercourses that are within the Triglav National Park or at least in the majority, and therefore, from this environmental point of view, it seems to me that this matter is even more problematic in this case. That's why I want to know: Does the Ministry, Minister, have any information in this regard, given that Elektro Gorenja is one of the distribution companies that are majority owned by the State? I believe, given that it is a distribution company, that this power plant management is not their basic activity, but one would expect us to have very much control over a segment in Slovenia – we have quite a few companies involved in the production of rivers and in the management of both hydropower plants and small hydropower plants – but we do have some integration or some agreement within our electricity system. From this point of view, I think it's very important: Does the State have any direction and strategy in this regard?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, for asking the question. As to how or in any way we can influence how only Elektro Gorenjska operates in relation to these investments, of course, as Minister, I cannot answer this question in the sense that we can influence it in any way, because we know that, in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, the conduct of this capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia, namely in Elektro Gorenjska, is not within the competence of the Ministry or the Government. Thus, also in my role as Minister, I do not have information on these business decisions of Elektro Gorenjska. I can say that although the company is indeed in 79.5% of the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, the remainder is owned by small shareholders. It is also true that the data on the business itself, i.e. these non-disclosure companies, are not publicly available, except of course for the publication of the annual report itself. Because of all these facts as a minister, I cannot answer the questions that are still within the domain of the administration or the supervisory board of the companies concerned. Of course, I can say what we as a country plan to ensure the share of renewable energy resources in line with these commitments we have set up. Here I can say that the construction of large hydro power plants, both on the lower Sava and on the Muri River, is key to achieving these objectives by 2020 and, of course, also on the medium Sava in the future by 2030. In short, these are the key investments we will have to make in order to ensure adequate shares of renewable energy sources. In this respect, we know that only a small part, which is very small in this overall extent, provides small hydropower plants, as well as solar and photovoltaic power plants, and wind power plants provide only a small part of this required scale. This is how they are crucial to achieving these objectives of this large hydro power plant, where we know that we also have several challenges to their realization, not only the very difficult placement, i.e. the adoption of state spatial plans, mainly in protected areas with Nature. Another challenging challenge is the very low price of electricity on the market, which now poses a serious challenge to investors to ensure the economic viability of all these investments, so that we will undoubtedly have to make some revision of what and how we will achieve these objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u232	Mr. Daniel Krivec, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u233	Thank you for your answer, Minister! But I'm afraid you're not most pleased with me with this answer, because you've been talking about new investments. I specifically asked about investments or power plants that are already installed on Sora, Kokri, Market Bistrica, Savi Dolinka, Savi Bohinjka and on the Sava River itself, mostly already amortised; it is said that some added value in this story and in fact with some acquisition by a foreign company would also be taken over in essence by this proportion of the quota of renewable resources. That's what I'm worried about. I want to know: What is your position on this? On the other hand, this is a warning I have given, most of this area is in a protected area or it has some nature-protection restrictions, and even in this case, I do not know if it is the wisest thing to do for someone who is outside our country; of course, we have suitable operators within our country. Not some new investment here, it's not some new intervention in space, but it's actually some property that's still state-owned. You yourself said that Elektro Gorenjska is majority owned by the state and the state must have an attitude to do so. In such cases, it seems to me a little succinct that we say that this is a matter of some supervisory councils and corporate governance, when it comes to quality resources that bring us added value in the balance sheets that electricity has, and last but not least, the country from all aspects – environmental, water and energy, not least, financial. That's why I'm asking: Do you have any information on these links? At least: Are you going to react in this direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Thus, with regard to this information, what is happening with regard to this letter of intent and so on, other, different information than those known by or from the media, of course I do not have, I do not have, because, as it is said, we cannot deal with this corporate governance work at the Ministry. The government can actually guide and manage this management through the adoption of the strategy; there are objectives to be recorded, there are guidelines to be recorded, which are then met and followed by SDH. [[…]] This way we will certainly check what is stated in the strategy itself in this regard. In addition, we always have the opportunity, as a government, to achieve certain strategic objectives and other important issues for the functioning of the energy system as a whole, to achieve the objectives of its stability or other environmental objectives through renewable energy sources, we can certainly give some additional direction and, of course, we will also discuss these issues with the Government. If we find that there is such an additional call here, some guidance on how to manage these matters in SDH, we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Okay, then we've done the first round and we're moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. Mrs Violeta Tomić has the floor to ask the Minister for Culture mags a question. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Minister of Culture would like to ask the following questions. The adoption of the new Library Law in early September 2015 has had some undesirable consequences. The Slovenian Book Translators Society, which is of national importance for the profession, since it is the only such residential society in Slovenia, has lost the right to direct costs in the implementation of the library grant tender, covering a large share of administrative and operational costs. Similar problems exist for other active companies, other than membership fees, which are generally not collected in sufficient amounts, companies do not have access to funds to cover basic administrative costs. Most of the calls, which are the main source of funding, are of a project or programme nature, so the funds obtained can only be spent strictly on purpose. The company of Slovenian literary translators combines professional translators, it is awarded with high professionalism and tradition, and it also awards the Sovret Prizes, which are residential awards of national importance. Without part of the members of the society there would be no intercultural mediation or translation segment of the Slovenian literary system, after all, no canon of world literature in Slovenian. Inadvertent changes in legislation can unwittingly result in extremely negative consequences. By interfering with the Library Act, the Association of Slovenian Literature Translators crossed the threshold of minimum financial stability. That's why I'm asking you: In what way does the Ministry of Culture intend to resolve the situation in which the Association of Slovenian Literature Translators was established? Does the Ministry of Culture intend to establish mechanisms for the stable financing of key cultural professional societies and thus relieve them of administrative and operational costs? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag has the floor. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u239	Dear President, honourable Member, Members, Madam Minister; we are all women here among ministers! I thank you very much for the question. But I'd like to explain why this is going on. The company referred to in the question is one of those companies which, under the Rules of Procedure for the Implementation of the Library Compensation, carried out a national task or a public mandate to grant work grants. In order to carry out this task, the State has provided financial resources, including to cover, inter alia, the overhead costs incurred by the companies. However, only those costs which were directly linked to the exercise of this task should be covered; whereas the Librarianship Act before its amendment in Article 56, which provided for a library compensation, did not include at all the legal basis for the award of work scholarships under the title of library compensation. Thus, the Law did not deal with overheads earlier and not now. On the basis of the opinion of the Ministry of Public Administration and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the proposed amendment of the law had the same effect as that of the Government’s Law Service, that the unconstitutional legal regime by which the Public Book Agency conferred public authority on societies had been amended by this article. The law now provides that the task of awarding work scholarships is the task of the Public Agency for the Book of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that the Public Book Agency is directly granted the powers of granting work scholarships by law and is therefore not allowed to carry out this task further to another institution. This means that these companies, these public powers, for which they also received the so-called directoral allowance, can no longer receive it because the Public Agency for the Book performs these tasks in the new way. This now means that this competence to grant work scholarships to companies has ceased, and thus their overhead costs in relation to this task cannot be exceeded. Previously, overheads were provided from financial resources intended for the implementation of the library fee, and by transferring the implementation of work grants from the company to the Public Book Agency, this means that more money will remain for authors entitled to library compensation. The Ministry of Culture, as you have rightly pointed out in its parliamentary question, is also carrying out funding for the programmes of notified societies within the framework of the programmes implemented, including not only programme costs, as you stated, but also in proportion to the supported programme the general costs of the operation of companies, such as rental premises, security, accounting, office materials, heating, electricity, water, telephone. As eligible costs under the invitation to tender, even costs of purchase, equipment and investment maintenance may be incurred if they arise from the purchase of equipment and investment maintenance necessary for the financing of a particular programme. Important information is also the fact that the Public Agency for a new tendering period for this year has enabled a higher percentage of the eligible costs of the applicant's work to be applied to the tenders, which is actually a step towards improving the situation of the companies mentioned. If society is not active only in this case, if it does not have any programmes and if it is not successful at running, then it means that it cannot receive these funds as well. As far as I know, in this case, it's about societies that are extremely active. However, the Ministry is working to improve the position of authors, and the current ministry has contributed significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u240	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor to request an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u241	Thank you for that explanation. However, I would like to tell you that the Association of Slovenian Literature Translators has awarded four important housing awards, of which Sovret Award has already had a 50-year tradition. The remaining three awards – Radojka Vrančič Award for Young Translator, Lavrin's Award for Translation of Slovenian Literature into Foreign Languages and Jerman's Award for Translation of Humanities – have a great reputation in the general and professional public. However, we know that virtually all calls at local, national and even European levels require a large part of their own input, which most societies cannot even afford. Therefore, such companies are also quite uncompetitive at the time of the tenders. In the Society of Translators, despite the annual increase in administrative obligations in the office, they may, according to the available resources, only employ a professional worker for 16 hours per week, although the tasks and expectations of co-financing require a person with full employment obligation and broad expertise. However, the problem is by no means limited to the translation society, since in the field of culture and beyond, measurable criteria should be laid down for the definition of central societies and at least for them to establish financial stability mechanisms in relation to the specific situations of individual societies. Let me be a little personal for the end. We just buried a friend, a producer of the B-51 Company. In their speeches, his colleagues said he was killed by constant cultural stress. This is now a diagnosis of a fatal disease, as a very successful producer has concluded contracts with international foundations; however, it is always necessary to be shaken by the fear of what will be the decisions of officials at the Ministry of Culture. As we know, some of our own resources must be provided. And if internationally recognised experts or culturers receive international recognition in the form of funds, it would be good to have it on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u242	Minister of Culture Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. In this case, I might say that there are five companies: the Slovenian Writers' Association, they received overhead costs of around €18,000; the Slovenian Literature Translators' Society – some 8,000 euros in overhead costs; the Union of Slovenian Artists – just over €5,000; the Slovenian Composers' Society – about 600 euros; and the Slovenian Film Creators' Society – about thousands of euros. As it is said, these costs were intended for these powers they exercised, but now they will no longer exercise these powers, which means that they cannot be eligible for these costs anymore. At the same time, the Public Book Agency, in the context of the new calls for proposals, has made it possible for the notifiers to apply the general operating costs, which is a systematic and coherent solution. If we would also like to provide companies with special means of action, this would be extremely difficult, especially in the current situation, because this would mean that there would be a crowd of societies — we know that 5,000 societies are active in the field of culture — choosing those who would be eligible. This is an extremely difficult task. And since there is no additional funding, this would mean that someone needs to take the money — and this is stressful again. I know our people in the ministry and most of them, it may be a rare exception, but most of them work hard and are extremely friendly with cultural creators and go on hand wherever possible to advise them. There have been no complaints about the work of officials at the Ministry of Culture with those with whom I have been able to speak so far, so they are also very sensitive to the needs of the creators and, if possible, we are paying attention to them; we are certainly listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u244	Violeta Tomić, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the reply of the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. The stable funding of cultural societies, which, following the adoption of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest for Culture in 2009, was simply unnecessary. State institutions should seek solutions to establish mechanisms for the stable financing of central societies, especially in the area of culture, which has lost so much in the last six years due to the austerity of the belt that it can barely breathe on the gills. This would relieve them of administrative and operational costs. Only in this way will cultural societies be able to develop their professional mission and, on the basis of basic funds, also seek other sources of funding. I know that society is large, but, as you yourself have mentioned, there will have to be a choice of beneficiaries and those of central and national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u246	Violeta Tomić, on your proposal for a general debate, will decide on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr. Jožef Horvat, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Defence, Mrs. Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, Madam Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, for having accepted my question. The Minister of the Interior rejected him and I am still sure that she should be the first to answer what I am going to ask. When cable fences began to be set up at the border with Croatia in November, some agreements were also held with local communities or mayors before the beginning. Discussions between representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the municipalities specifically concerned the implementation of preparatory works. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior asked whether certain preparatory works could be carried out by firefighters. Following an agreement in the municipality of Rogatec, the required works were carried out by firefighters of two voluntary firefighters associations of Rogatec Municipality; with the help of a self-employed entrepreneur with appropriate mechanisms. To be clear, the ministry is part of the order with the entrepreneur and also with firefighters. In November and December, firefighters from Dobovec and PGD Rogatec carried out the following number of hours: PGD Rogatec – 953 hours, PGD Dobovec – 325 hours, a total of a thousand 278 hours. That's as much as if one worked seven months and a half full-time, 174 hours a month. To this day, none of the voluntary fire companies received payment for their work. It is quite clear that this was not an intervention, but an ordered work by the Ministry of the Interior. The agreement was concluded at a meeting in Rogatec, where representatives of the municipality attended, Mr Andrej Špenga, Secretary of State, attended; Mr Darko But, Director General of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, and Mr Robert Videc, Police Administration of Celje. It was assured that there would be no problem with payment. Work was done all day long, and some firefighters also had to use their summer vacation. It is unacceptable for the Ministry of the Interior or the Government to give up this matter after the end of the work in order to resolve the Gasilski link of Slovenia, which had nothing to do with the activities at the construction of the fence. If the firefighters had done the required work, their decision was entirely theirs, they could have made a different decision. In particular, in the municipality of Rogatec, on the basis of the mayor's suggestion that the work would be paid, firefighters decided to carry out the work. Madam Minister, I ask you: When will the Ministry of the Interior fulfil its obligation to pay to the voluntary firefighting companies mentioned above; that is, to the voluntary firefighting company Rogatec and Dobovec? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u248	Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u249	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Member! Let me continue to say that in my opinion, everyone involved in the resolution of the refugee and migrant crisis has done an excellent job. And I'm sorry that there's been any misunderstanding about how hard work is. Some agreements have been adopted, perhaps not clearly written down enough. Let me tell you what's on our side. The reimbursement of the costs incurred as a result of the migratory flow to all those involved in the activities through the Ministry of Defence is, in my opinion, taking place on a regular basis; such information has been provided to me. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has already forwarded appropriate guidance to local communities and their associations 5. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection and Resolution is empowered by the Ministry of Finance to collect, recognise and realize the costs for local communities and also for NGOs. On 10 December 2015, the Government adopted a decision which, inter alia, provided for the operation of voluntary firefighters companies in Slovenia with an amount of EUR 100 000; to cover the intervention costs already incurred; to compensate for the salary and reimbursement of costs during the protection, rescue and assistance tasks; and the estimated costs for the installation and supply of migrants by the end of 2015. The firefighting link of Slovenia has been channelled 17 with regard to the recognition of eligible costs. 12. 2015 following a prior agreement on the amount of reimbursement of individual items. In the settlement of costs, according to the number of NGOs involved, the principle of equal treatment of all was based on the principle that the work of volunteers was free of charge and that the costs incurred in connection with the performance of this work were justified and payable. With the Firehouse Association of Slovenia, it was specifically agreed that the cost of using equipment per unit is charged for 50 euros per 12 hours of activity. It should also be mentioned that the Municipality of Rogatec has adopted a decision on reimbursement of costs of EUR 2 000 922,72 between 9 and 9 years. 10 and 15. 12. 2015, which also shows the cost of eating firefighters for eight days of placing technical barriers of 914.34 euros. It is also worth mentioning that, on the basis of the request for assistance – the work was not determined, nor was the contract issued – in addition to the members of PGD Rogatec and PGD Dobovec at Rogatec, other voluntary firefighters from the Šmarje Association at Jelša from the seven voluntary firefighters companies – Podčetek, Porta pri Mestinj, Sela-Verače-Vurštanja, Glassrna Rogaška Slatina, Kostrivnica, Rogaška Slatina, Sveti Florijan and 111 firefighters who have worked together for a thousand 760 hours. The GZS settled EUR 3 000 342.87 for logistical transport, EUR 426.22, fuel and lubricant costs of EUR 838.50, damaged equipment costs of EUR 308,15 and equipment costs of EUR 750. PGD Dobovec was awarded 847.5 euros at Rogatc, PGD Rogatec 945.93 euros, and was also provided with a diet of 914.34 euros. It is a fact that non-governmental organisations have done enormous work in managing the migratory flow, for which we must give them all the credit. In the present case, however, in our view, it is once again a misunderstanding that activities relating to migration in non-governmental organisations cannot be carried out in a profitable manner. This was also explained to the Mayor of Rogatec Municipality and both companies by the Management of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and rescue, the Fire Union of Slovenia and also the Regional Fire Commander. Let me add to this if we compare the costs that we received from the Ministry of Finance in engaging the Slovenian Armed Forces in setting up the fence, how much it cost where the external contractor who does this as a gainful activity put it, to ask certain questions. But that's why we're here to carry out these tasks, so there are also voluntary societies to carry out these tasks. These systems have been agreed upon, perhaps only concretely on the ground there have been misunderstandings and they should be further clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u250	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u251	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed explanations. As a member of the government and in some way as a protector of Slovenian volunteer firefighters, I ask you to agree with your colleague, Minister of the Interior. Her representatives took part in these discussions, and I don't know the details of these conversations. They must have been talking about some kind of clockwork. We are all aware that it is voluntary firefighters, that everything they have done is not a profitable activity, that they have done it not for themselves, that they are not demanding payments for themselves, but for voluntary firefighting companies. We know very well how much funding voluntary firefighters must provide for annual operation, equipment, education and so on. It's not easy today. That in some way the tax cans also kill fireflies, which are some of our Slovenian culture, whether anyone likes it or not. However, I would like to ask that perhaps the Minister herself, Minister Györkös, should call the representatives of the Rogatec Municipality and agree with them. There may have been some misunderstanding, but I think it is quite fair that a proper job should be treated as a matter of course, that it is also a fair government, in accordance with the agreements and in time to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u252	The Minister of Culture? You don't want to answer; okay. Mr Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u253	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A nice welcome to both the ministers! I'm asking Mrs. Irena Majcen, or I'm interested in: What measures have been taken on watercourses this year to ensure flood safety? Are all contracts with concessionaires signed to carry out public water management activities? And if not, why? That's what I'm asking from the following facts. In the past, this has been clearly noted for a long time, significantly underinvested in the maintenance of Slovenian watercourses, water infrastructures and also water and coastal land; as a result it increases flood risk or causes greater flood damage. In 2014, the Action Plan for Action for Flooding Activities in Slovenia was adopted, and there was also something invested in this rehabilitation, about 37 million. In 2015, an action plan was adopted, which, in addition to the activities already carried out, provides for a clear, comprehensive implementation, as well as repairs of flood damage in 2015 and also in 2016. According to my information, despite the fact that this programme has been adopted and the activities are somehow agreed, the current leadership situation is quite problematic, as only €1.5 million for the whole of Slovenia is currently provided for the regular public service, which is not sufficient for the performance of compulsory professional tasks of concessionaires, not only for the performance of maintenance works at water infrastructure facilities. In recent years, some 8 million euros have been earmarked for regular maintenance at the annual level. That is why I am even more interested in how this year's affairs are going, because promises have been made. To a large extent, many promises were made in terms of additional recovery after the floods, these damage being said. We all know that in the autumn and spring times and before the great rains, this is absolutely necessary. That is why I am so much more surprised when I collected this data that certain things in terms of implementation in the field do not work out as has been ensured several times by the Ministry. Therefore, I also ask for specific answers in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u254	Minister of the Environment, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u255	Dear President, Mr Milan Brglez, honourable Member, honourable Members! Dear Member Daniel Krivec, thank you for the question. It is true that the action programme adopted at the time of the flood in 2014 has produced quite a few conclusions. In performing physical works in the field last year, it was quite significant, it was a real investment that was made in the sense that the intervention works were carried out without obtaining all the necessary consent. This period after the floods is no longer the end and the intervention works are no longer needed, and all the consensus necessary for such measures must also be obtained for all investments. Here I am talking mainly about the nature-protection consensus, because watercourses are largely taking place in an area where there is a nature-protection regime, and it is necessary to obtain these consents. It is true, however, that among the conclusions there is also a plan to ensure flood safety, and this plan was presented after Slovenia at the end of last year. I admit that at the Ministry of Professional Services we were very pleased with the response of local communities. These presentations received responses to a greater extent than we expected; the result is that municipalities make large-scale decisions and also prepare project documentation themselves, in some cases, for the implementation of anti-floating measures. With such municipalities, we then make certain financial obligations under the water fund in terms of co-financing. It is a little less gratifying that there are no more municipalities among them, which, by the way, obtain more funds from hydroelectric power plants; and their engagement, at least we, would welcome or be very happy to engage them. If I start with concessionaires. It is true, in the budget itself, that more financial resources than you have stated are not; it is true, however, that by dynamic operations or by dynamic provision of these funds we will also provide more resources for the performance of public, compulsory public economic services in this year. Private concessionaires who have a concession to carry out these tasks are signed contracts, in fact, an annex to the contracts will be signed in the coming months. The temporary contract is also concluded for the Savinja area, where the concession, the only one, is not yet granted due to the outstanding award procedure. However, these are complaints from both of them who applied for the concession and requested a review. The annual contract for the performance of the public service in the Sečovlje Soline Landscape Park is in the process of signing. It may even be signed, but we're talking about the signing process. However, if I answer for action now, I would say that there are two state spatial plans that were adopted years ago that I have talked about many times. It is Southwestern Ljubljana, where a public tender for the selection of designers is currently being repeated in the implementation; and for Railways, where activities are also taking place to obtain project and investment documentation as a basis for obtaining building permits. Both projects are included in the financial perspective 2014-2020 and will be co-financed by Cohesion Fund projects, where Savinja's regime and the Drava arrangements are also included.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u256	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u257	Thank you for your answers, Your Honor. I think that for everyone who is still sitting here, they are quite concerned, because you have confirmed to me that only a million and a half million are actually provided for the provision of public service at this point, not about 8 million, as in previous years. You said all these concessionaires would be given an annex. I can hardly imagine this, because some concessionaire who has to plan some measures on these watercourses cannot depend on whether in two months he will be given an annex to be able to carry out any activity. I'm a little worried or not going together. On the other hand, I also have information, so I also asked this question, and you were talking about obtaining certain permits now. I have a concrete case where there has been an effort to take some action on a natural monument - I am talking about a watercourse - three, four, perhaps even more years where all the consensus has been obtained where consensus is also timed in order to allow certain interventions to be carried out only during the winter, spring and so on, clearly, due to the requirements of the nature protection profession. I understand that. I do not understand, however, that at a given point, when we come to some realization after endless bureaucracy, we find that some concessionaire who planned this cannot even begin to do so because he does not know if he will receive an extension of the annex in three months. This seems irresponsible to me by the Ministry, by this government and also by us, Members who have been constantly talking about the need to reduce the flood risk of greater damage to watercourses, infrastructure at all. And we can only reduce it by taking some measures. Documentation has been prepared, the budget has been adopted, the budget has ensured that 100 million is more for watercourses, and we now find that we do not have one million or one million for regular maintenance compared to the previous eight million. I'm asking for an extra one. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u258	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u259	Commissioner, I can answer you that last year, at the beginning of the year, there was no telling how much funding would be provided for intervention works; then at the end of the year, we have somehow provided more than 25 million additional resources. I said we have dynamic planning or dynamic security, and the Annexes are nothing special. Annexes have already been concluded with concessionaires in the past and will also be concluded this year. But I can tell you that with Kamnik Municipality we have a project to provide flood safety for Kamnika Bistrica in the area of Kamnik settlement and downstream to Volčje stream. This is carried out in the municipality of Šentjur; it is a project to ensure flood safety in Voglajna, then in the municipality of Grosuplje there is a project to ensure flood safety of the village; also in the municipality of Mozirje there was a reconstruction of the Ločko jez, which means that we conduct these procedures in some way, we also manage the provision of financial resources for the implementation of these projects. As I said, the involvement of local communities is very important. But it is true that it is difficult for me to agree to your thesis that the concessionaire is somehow planning what he will learn in what year. I am sure that this is our professional task, and we provide or determine what needs to be done in the field first and later. The damage that needs to be addressed is also being assessed by our experts and, through this, due to economic calculations, where the provision of flood safety is the most economically justified, we are actually dealing with these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u260	Mr Daniel Krivec, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the answer of the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u261	I will take advantage of this business opportunity and demand that this response be voted on and that a wider debate be held later in the National Assembly, because we have talked a lot about this subject in the past; but now you have answered me, including this last part, with some surprise. I have a feeling that Madam Minister doesn't really know what she's talking about right now. It is said that concessionaires have no right to plan certain measures on watercourses. If you look at the regulations and regulations governing public service and so on, you will see what their tasks are. Their task is to monitor, monitor and anticipate individual measures that are clearly coordinated with naturalists, with leaders, with all institutions. But this is why concessionaires have been planning these measures in terms of timelines and finance to monitor some watercourses over time and anticipate some measures. This is not what the Ministry and the management profession do in terms of supervision. That really surprises me. Concessionaries of concessions mean some long-term management and supervision of some thing. You say you'll be giving these concessionaires an annex every three months. How will they plan any action on the watercourse?Oh, my God! One of the things I have now heard really convince me that this debate is necessary. I will also ask the committee, if necessary, to do so, because all the interviews when we adopt the budget when we ask about these measures were clear – the money is 100 million for the measures on the watercourses, this is guaranteed. The budget was adopted last November for two years. Now you're talking about some dynamic planning that's just going to tell us when we're going to take some action. And I know about an area that I come from, that certain things are ready, that were being prepared for five, six years. People or specific victims asked me when something was going to happen. And when I got the answer from the concessionaire that he doesn't even have a signed contract, that he doesn't even know how it's gonna work, I decided to ask this question because I think they have the same problems all over Slovenia, if you're talking about some dynamic planning for this year. I think the conclusions of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space have been clear in the past. More needs to be done to maintain and remedy the consequences of previous floods in order to prevent greater damage. Now, however, I cannot conclude this from your replies, so I propose that we hold an additional debate on your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u262	Mr Daniel Krivec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor to ask the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u263	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Minister, fellow Members of Parliament! I will ask the Minister a question from the important field of work of the Ministry of Defence, and this is veterinary. This year we will mark 25 years since Slovenia is a independent, independent and sovereign republic. We're going to be doing a variety of events that happened 25 years ago. Today, the 25th anniversary of the military exercise Move, which took place just today, was commemorated in the New Town military barracks. However, it is increasingly clear that we will not celebrate these 25-year-olds unitedly because some procedures, especially last week, have already been initiated to re-create history, to recreate the role of key people – those who were on the side of the newly formed Republic of Slovenia, and those whose independence – if I may say so, as former President of the Republic Milan Kučan said – was never their most intimate choice. What am I talking about? We're talking about the re-awakening of the story of the helicopter being shot down over the Pink Valley. Last week, Brigadier Tone Krković, who, while retired, was one of the most important single-owners, in particular as regards the military area of this self-serving war, received an invitation to come to the court where the trial will take place, be careful, in accordance with the Yugoslav penal code – that is to say, in the independent Republic of Slovenia, it is again tried under Yugoslav law – because they want him to be tried for the shooting down of this helicopter. They want him to be tried for shooting down a helicopter that was a Yugoslav People's Army helicopter flying in a restricted area. We are once again witnessing that we want to detract from Slovenian independence, even this time the target is Tone Krković, then the target is then Minister of Defence Janez Janša. And we're just wondering, first we had Patricia, now we have this helicopter, I don't know what's coming. I hope that no one will remember that it is necessary to judge under the Yugoslav criminal code someone who established the Manevre structure of national protection, because it was according to the Yugoslav criminal code of treason. Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: What will the Ministry do to protect one key independent, in this case Toneta Krković, to protect all veterans in order to protect the Ministry of Defence's reputation to protect the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, to protect the reputation of Slovenia's independent war? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u264	Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u265	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Member! This year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This is certainly the most appropriate moment in our long-standing history of fighting, so I am also uncomfortablely surprised that right now, this year, we are facing issues that we should clear up on this anniversary. In addition to this, let me remind you of the second point: when we remember the 25th anniversary of independence, when we remember all the sad events here after 25 years, we are faced with abandonment of persecution against those who fought against the independence of Slovenia. Such procedures should not be terminated. With regard to the question raised, the Ministry of Defence was not informed of the re-introduction of an investigation into the shooting of a JLA helicopter during the self-inflicted war. About the invitation received by Brigadier Krković, we were informed by the media. If the court decides to initiate the proceedings, I believe that the Ministry of Defence owes Brigadier Krković and any other members of the Territorial Defence who have participated in the protection of the plebiscite decision of the Slovenian people to create a single state, to provide all necessary support in the form of appropriate legal assistance and also in the form of documents available to the Ministry. In the past, the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces have done much in the framework of military history and the Slovenian Armed Forces Military Museum to shed light on developments during the war of independence and have also contributed in this way to preventing the fabrication of historical facts. Within the framework of the activities of the Slovenian Armed Forces Military Museum to mark the 25th anniversary of independence, we also plan a series of activities, symposiums, lectures, exhibitions, thematic publications of professional literature, as well as marking individual events with which we will celebrate the events of 1991. On the other hand, the events of the war of independence will also be historically and militarily further enlightened, which I think is particularly important, since in this way there will be less room for different interpretations of these events and less room for a self-conquering war to serve as a policy polygon for different forms of separation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u266	Mr. Jean Mahnič, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. From these answers, I think you're the one who's here, I'm glad to have a clear idea that you know who was who on which side. Now this has been happening for some time now, as the Minister himself has rightly determined, was the absolved aggressor who sowed death and destruction on Radgona, this is Colonel Berislav Popov. He was forgiven by the Slovenian judiciary, and there was a lot of talk on the Defence Committee, and the independents are being processed, locked up, and in short, mutilated. Again, this helicopter was "bringed out" as it was practically before each election; also, Mr Krković had been processed in the past because of this, but of course all things had fallen. And here too, the issue of this pilot, Tony Merlak, is constantly being raised that we should be negotiating for a misdemeanour. I want to know: Are there any records of this at the Ministry? Why does this pilot driving a Yugoslav helicopter have veteran status? Why was it written among the fallen for Slovenia while he was driving an aggressor army helicopter? He never crossed the line, even though they agreed to do it. There were no written requests anywhere. And I am approached by veterans who are extremely dissatisfied that the Slovenian Army guard unit even faces the memorial mark that one of the pilots who, in the war for Slovenia, fell for Slovenia alone, who was otherwise piloted by the Yugoslav People's Army helicopter. Madam Minister: What are the other activities, even though I welcome you, so that you will obviously protect yourself if this is of course necessary?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u268	Minister of Defence Andreja Katič, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u269	Thank you. As I said, the Ministry of Defence is obliged to assist any member of the Territorial Defence who has participated in the protection of the plebiscite decision. And in this case, it is right that the Ministry of Defence is also available with all the data. To know for myself everything that was strung up, what was in the past, given that I had a question two days ago, and I can't even say, we didn't even have time to check. But it's right and I'm sorry that we're saying this at 25 years old, to clear up all the events that happened, and to finally close this chapter from history. The Ministry of Defence will also cooperate with its data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u270	Mr Jan Mahnic, you have the floor for a procedural request to hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u271	Thank you, President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this. Not that I would not be satisfied with the Minister's response, which she answered correctly, but because I believe that the National Assembly should have a thorough discussion on this. Members and Members of Parliament, there are also quite a few veterans of the war on Slovenia, whom I am sure they would express their views and their views on these events. This year is 25 years old, and this debate should also be in the light of the fact that we will be able to celebrate it more unitedly, because if one of the key people has to defend himself for a matter that is being read to him, for which he is not guilty, it was known that the helicopter had nothing to look for there. No matter who drove it, no matter what they agreed on, there are no statements or documents of wrongdoing. If these documents were already there, I believe they would have been presented in public long ago. In addition, I wonder why this case is constantly being opened when it is known that during the war for Slovenia Slovenian territorialists have injured and subjected the mortal force to other of our enemies by the Yugoslav People's Army. The other cases don't open. This case is always used to discredit Toneto Krković, for discrediting Janez Janša, for discrediting the invaders, for discrediting Slovenia's self-serving war, which some still call operational. Regardless of what definitions of war you see by polymology, that was war, that was a concrete political goal achieved, that is, the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia. And if anyone, then this National Assembly must protect those who carried their heads for sale so that today we can have a state of our own so that Members can sit here and the President of the National Assembly up and the ministers and the President of the Government on this side. If it weren't for these people who risked a lot, who risked everything to be mutilated at various celebrations today, at a variety of celebrations; if it weren't for these people, we probably wouldn't be sitting here today. Regardless of which government is in power, left or right, it is incumbent upon these people to respect and protect their good name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-23-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u272	Mr Jan Mahnic, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Tuesday 29 March 2016 in the framework of the votes. I thank the ministers and ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday 29 March 2016, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
