ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, mag. Bojana Muršič, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Violeta Tomić, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat, Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Dr. Franz Duck, Miha Kordish and Mag. Dušan Verbich. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I'd like to say hello to the rest of you! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 3 June 2016 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it's an evocative bill on the ratification of the protocol on the accession of the Black Mountain to the North Atlantic Treaty. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Dr. Mir Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am particularly pleased to welcome the President of the Assembly of Montenegro, Mr Dark Pajovic, with a delegation, at today's plenary session. Welcome! Slovenia has always been a strong advocate of NATO's open-door policy in the Western Balkans. The December invitation of Montenegro and the recent signing of the accession protocol are proof that open-door policy remains a reality, a reality for partner countries that share the same values with us and are ready and able to assume the obligations and responsibilities of membership. I am particularly honoured that Slovenia is among the first Member States of NATO to ratify the Montenegrin accession protocol. With this gesture we send an additional message of support to Montenegro and at the same time welcome her to the Alliance. Montenegro's achievements in just a decade of independence are impressive in all areas, including the approximation of Euro-Atlantic integration. I am pleased that Slovenia can contribute to this success in Montenegro. We see Montenegro as a reliable and credible partner, a country that contributes to regional and international security and is an example to other candidate countries in the Western Balkans region. This is also evidenced by its contribution to international operations under the auspices of NATO, the European Union and the United Nations. Your Honor! Bilateral relations between Slovenia and Montenegro are excellent. The countries have traditionally developed partnership and friendly cooperation. The established trust and continuous active contacts between countries contribute significantly to this, and this is particularly important among people. This year also marks the 10th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between countries. Slovenia was the first country to open its embassy in Montenegro immediately after its independence. Many Slovenian experts are closely involved in advice on Montenegro's progress in the negotiations on membership in the European Union. We will also continue to share our experiences with Montenegro with a view to making it as easy as possible to operate in NATO. Between 2011 and 2014, we played the role of NATO's Contact Embassy and contributed to Montenegro's progress on its way to membership. Montenegro's NATO membership represents an important step towards strengthening stability in this strategically important region, while at the same time confirming that NATO's enlargement is one of our most successful policies that contributes to enhancing security in the Euro-Atlantic area. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular that NATO's enlargement as a defence alliance is not directed at anyone, with its fundamental mission to expand the area of stability and security. The challenges remain in the region. Even Montenegro faces them successfully. At the same time, we must be aware that NATO is not just a military alliance. As set out in the preamble to the North Atlantic Treaty, NATO is also, in particular, a community based on the principles of democracy, personal freedom and the rule of law. The involvement of society, political and public support for NATO membership are therefore as important as military planning. Let me conclude with the idea that the doors of the Alliance, which first opened in 1952, are still open. Despite many new challenges in international security, or precisely because of this in the coming months, Montenegro has taken a step across. In doing so, we sincerely congratulate her, and we want her entry to be a clear and positive signal to other aspirants from the region for membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Joseph Horvat to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministerial assembly, Mr President of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, dear friends from Montenegro! At its 51st meeting, on 8 June 2016, this morning, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had no comments on the text of the bill. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dara Bavdaž Kuret, provided an additional explanation. She said that the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty had been signed in Brussels on 19 May 2016, following successful talks and confirmation of the report on the negotiations at the meeting of NATO's foreign ministers. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Mag. Miloš Bizjak added that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia has supported the approach to NATO during the entire process of Montenegro's accession process, particularly through a special defence adviser who has worked at the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Podgorica since 2011. He also added that it was going to invite Montenegro to join the association then to understand also as a result of Slovenian consistent efforts and worlds. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs was delivered by a member of the Alojz Kovšca Commission, who said that the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs supports the proposal of the law and added that this would open a new field for the development of relations between countries. In the debate between the members and members of the Committee, the role of the Republic of Slovenia as a major supporter of Montenegro's rapprochement, NATO, stressed the importance of this only in terms of ensuring stability in the region, while stressing the role of NATO as an organisation acting on democratic principles and its positive impacts, of which the smaller Member States of NATO can in particular prosper. In the debate of the opposition Member of the Group, the United Left expressed three main concerns: an ideological, foreign policy and internal political one, and the view was expressed that NATO is not a defence liaison, but is an increasingly infrastructural instrument for demonstrating political interests. In the ensuing debate, MEPs and Members were also exposed to the importance of Montenegro as a country with a long and strong military tradition and, above all, it was pointed out that it was a country with an important geostrategic position along the Adriatic Sea and that its approach to the relationship could then be seen as an important element of the integration of countries in the Western Balkans, which would also bring greater stability in the region and the relationship could then prove to be an important security framework in the region. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law on the home working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes that the draft law on the ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Prime Minister of the Government, Ministers, Honourable President of the Assembly of Montenegro! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will gladly contribute our key votes, without which there would be no two-thirds majority, and support Montenegro's entry into NATO. This will be another Balkan country that joins this alliance and thus strengthens its southern wing and contributes significantly to peace in the region. Let me say that Montenegro's entry is in some way also the achievement of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been mentoring this country for the last four years at the time of entry, advised both in the defence field and also advised on the transformation of the Montenegrin army. Montenegro enters the alliance in a very delicate period, at a time when the alliance is plagued by three problems or three external threats: aggressive Russian politics, the Daesh terrorist group and Iran's missile program. The Allies who follow him can see that he is in a new phase of transformation. The transformation that returns to the very origin of this alliance is a collective defence. The last serious military action then was intervention in Afghanistan. Whoever's saying that NATO has destabilized Syria, has destabilized Iraq, has destabilized Iran, either has no idea what it's talking about or doesn't know what it's doing. Values such as freedom, democracy and the rule of law are common values for all of us. These are also the values of the Alliance, which goes back to its 28th mission. In short, in the first place, NATO is once again a collective defence, strengthening military capabilities, not for expeditional action, as some say, but for the fact that it is crucial for self-defence, to help one Member State, as Article 5 of NATO states say, because an attack on one country is an attack on all. Slovenia's share in meeting with the contact embassy for Montenegro's accession to the Alliance has been fulfilled, and I think it has fulfilled it as it should, we can say, professionally. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to another country, also in the Balkans, which is mainly a victim of its name, which is a victim of foreign policies and has somehow lost momentum in the NATO alliance process, and this is Macedonia. After the closure of the Balkan migration route, Macedonia is the country that bears and bears the greatest burden. I also pointed out this a week ago in Tirana at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly that we need an open-door policy, which is one of the seven key points for the talks in Warsaw at the NATO Summit on 8 and 9 July, two years after Wales, to open and speak. The issue of Georgia, the issue of Sweden and Finland as partner countries also. All of this is necessary to strengthen your own safety and to strengthen your own capacities. Slovenia will continue to be a serious partner of NATO, which is why, of course, we must do the most alone, not only talk about strengthening common capacities, but also point out, especially from words that have already been very much in this Parliament, to actions, to strengthening our own capacities, to strengthening the Slovenian Army. Here let me take advantage of my appeal to the President of the Government and the Finance Minister, who are the key figures in this process, to finally raise the defence budget and to strengthen the Slovenian Army, which is both human and materially fed. Time is right, because threats are the greatest after the Cold War, that's the first point. And secondly, the Slovenian public is prepared and approves an increase in the defence budget. We will vote in favour of the Slovenian Democratic Party. But I want Montenegro to work successfully in the alliance and in the fight for common values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u8	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and representatives of Montenegro! The main objective of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or the shorter NATO, which brings together 28 Member States from Europe and North America, is to protect the freedom and security of all Member States. Member States shall be involved in NATO for their own strategic security and interests, as well as for the desire for collective security of all Member States and for the strengthening of peace in the global community. Last December, Montenegro was invited to join NATO in accession talks and successfully concluded them. Thus, a protocol on the accession of this country to an alliance signed on behalf of Slovenia by our Foreign Minister Karl Viktor Erjavec was signed in May this year and is now subject to ratification. Slovenia strongly supported Montenegro's accession to NATO. In this light, the Slovenian Embassy in Podgorica carried out two tasks of the so-called NATO Contact Embassy. Given that we are aware of the importance of the enlargement of NATO to the Western Balkans region, we are also striving to be among the first countries to ratify this Protocol. Slovenia and Montenegro share friendly relations. The countries are closely linked in a number of areas. Slovenia was the first country to open its embassy in Podgorica in June 2006. This happened only a few weeks after Montenegro dissolved its independence. In an area once a common country, there are still unhealed wounds left by the war of the 1990s. This war has left behind desolate and broken homes, thousands of dead, wounded, and displaced. Given that passions have not yet fully calmed down, the Balkans may potentially be at war again. The tightening of relations can also be expected in the light of the migratory flows that burden this part of Europe. Security in this area should therefore be ensured. It is important that the Western Balkan countries join the NATO Alliance. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that this is the only way to ensure stability and peace in this part of Europe. We are pleased that the parliamentary groups, with the exception of one, have come together and requested this meeting, and we are confident that the law will also be adopted by a large majority of those present. This will show that we want to ensure security and peace in Europe, of course also in the Western Balkans. As I mentioned earlier, in the Desus Group we are pleased that Slovenia, as the leading country in the region, will be among the first to ratify the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the NATO Alliance. This is an important step for Montenegro and, at the same time, an important message for other countries in the region that NATO's liaison door is open for enlargement to the Western Balkans. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill. We expect other ratifications to follow quickly. We are confident that Montenegro will also be followed by other countries in the region that are not yet members of NATO, which will help to ensure even more lasting peace in the Western Balkans. I want Montenegro to join NATO as soon as possible and, of course, to work successfully within this organisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u10	Honourable President, Ministerial Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, high guests! Slovenia is an open supporter of the expansion of NATO to the Western Balkans. This position is based on the assessment that Euro-Atlantic integration is the largest guarantee for stability and peace in the region. The latter is particularly important at a time when the stability of this test is due to external security and internal factors. We are so confident that the accession of Montenegro to NATO will help strengthen its security and stability. It is therefore so important that Slovenia also ratifys the first Protocol on Montenegro's accession to NATO. Due to the security challenges and, above all, due to the constant Slovenian support of the sincere wishes of the Montenegrin people for a independent and independent country, we have supported and continue to actively support Montenegro's membership in the Euro-Atlantic integration since the beginning. Thus, Slovenia was a contact point for NATO in Podgorica and an open ally at all stages until the signing of the accession protocol. With membership, Montenegro will also ensure a greater role and potential impact in international matters. The consultations between Member States' governments make an important contribution to the impact of each country's role and its overall international relations. Such contacts and consultations are of great benefit to Member States in times of difficulties and disagreements. They make it possible for them to use a common stock of mutual understanding and respect, helping them to identify mutually acceptable solutions and to make joint decisions. Montenegro's accession is also a sign to other countries in the Western Balkans that NATO is open to the process of further enlargement. We hope that the ratification of the Republic of Slovenia as the first Member State, together with Iceland, will also contribute to greater stability and cohesion in the Balkans and to the reconciliation of tensions in the region. We support the ratification of the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u11	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Members of the United Left will vote against Montenegro's accession to NATO. Then it is an imperialist union, so we advocate that Slovenia withdraw from it and at the same time oppose its enlargement. At the same time, it is unacceptable for us that a country will join the military pact without its citizens being able to comment on it at the referendum. Finally, we will also vote against this because we do not want to be part of the false, fabricated state-of-the-art political class. The accession of Montenegro to NATO has nothing to do with the interests of our citizens or with the policy of peace, which is to be the basis of our defence policy. It is then not and never a defence union, but a coalition to protect the political and economic interests of the United States and the former colonial forces at the expense of other countries. These include countries such as Slovenia, which are formally members of NATO but do not have any real power. The aggressive nature of NATO was finally exposed after the collapse of the Warsaw Pact in 1991 by the planned destruction of Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, with interventions in Pakistan, Somalia, West Africa and the spread of the civil war in Syria. Then, and its members are directly responsible for the greatest refugee crisis since World War II, so, of course, the accession of any State to the Pact is not necessary and not its internal political issue, but the whole region. Of course, we will not vote against it because we would have something against Montenegro and its inhabitants. On the contrary, this accession takes place without the consent of Montenegrin citizens. The resistance to NATO is greater in Montenegro than in any other potential member. Finally, Montenegro will be the first NATO member to experience NATO bombs on her own. That's why the Montenegrin political class didn't want to, and still doesn't want to risk the referendum. This is also evidenced by today's letter from the Vice-President of the Montenegrin Parliament, in which he urged us not to support the ratification by the members of the National Assembly. It is evident that Montenegro de facto joins NATO against the will of the population. The Joint Left shall also distance itself from the urgency of the ratification of the Accession Protocol. The rush of empty prestige to be the first to be ratified is just another proof of Slovenia's servility. Slovenia is not and will not become an important player in the so-called Western Balkans. As a result, neither Nat nor Montenegrin officials will look into Slovenian interests. We can only expect from NATO more of the same, by continuing the pressure to increase funds for the military and to increase the participation of Slovenian soldiers in the Nat wars. It is in the interest of Slovenia, in fact, to withdraw from NATO. We can take as an example a neighbouring Austria, which is not a member of the military who spends less money, a smaller percentage of GDP than Slovenia, and is, unlike Slovenia, able to defend its national territory and also its interests. The voice of the United Left against the enlargement of the Union is therefore a vote for sovereignty, a vote to respect the will of the people and, above all, a vote for a policy of peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again a very nice greeting to everyone, this time on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats support and today will vote in favour of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty. We're in NATO, we're in NATO, we're people who connect us and share common values, like peace, democracy, rule of law. At this moment, my memory is stopped on the Mainic Declaration, which was read on 8 May 1989 on the Congress Square. Article 2 of the Majni Declaration states: "As a sovereign state, we will decide for ourselves the links with the Yugoslav and other nations within the framework of a reformed Europe." In New Slovenia we understand that today's ratification of the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty is a small step towards the implementation of Article 2 of the Main Declaration. On 20 June 2006, we adopted a decision in this National Assembly, which reads: "The Republic of Slovenia recognises the Republic of Montenegro as an independent and sovereign state." At the time, Nova Slovenija was a government party. On this occasion, we congratulate Montenegro on the decade of its independent and sovereign path. This action in the National Assembly took place only a month after the successful referendum on the independence and independence of Montenegro, at which the citizens of Montenegro decided on their own path. The day after the referendum in Montenegro, then the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, sent his colleague a card stating, inter alia, "This is a good foundation for a single country and its European perspective." Minister Rupel also assured Minister Vlahović of the readiness of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia and all Slovenian policies to further support the constructive dialogue with Brussels. He also expressed his desire to deepen cooperation between Slovenia and the Black Speech. In this case, our relations with Montenegro are pleased to note that it is a consistent policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Last July, the National Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also based on the decisions of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in referendum decisions, I am referring to the referendum of March 2003, when about one million voters came to vote and about two thirds of the voters decided to become members of the Republic of Slovenia concerning NATO. It is in this declaration that we have written that the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to NATO represents our basic, fundamental security framework. Friendly Montenegro, on behalf of New Slovenia, I want a good and successful future, but I also want an in-depth cooperation between countries at all levels – political, economic, cultural, scientific and other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u16	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends! Slovenia has always stood on the side of Montenegro on its way to NATO. You have always had an ally in Slovenia. I am pleased that the door of the union then to Montenegro has opened wide, in fact, at the time of our government. Of course, in our Group of Members, we will absolutely support the proposal that is before you today. We are convinced that this path is the only right path, not only for Montenegro, but also for the NATO connection, of course. I am also happy and proud, although we will not be the first to be the second to ratify this protocol. Dear friends, even from this town, we've already received an honest congratulations. However, I am joining a colleague from the United Left, a respected colleague and colleagues, even under what domestic theme should such unity be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial assembly, and above all distinguished delegations, under the leadership of the President of the Assembly of Montenegro, Mr Pajović! Since independence the Republic of Slovenia has been committed to integration and active cooperation in the international community, in fact, we can say strategic, important. To this day, our presence in the international community and also in international organisations has high national value. In 2014, the Republic of Slovenia, as the first of the countries from the former Yugoslavia, entered both the European Union and NATO and became part of two extremely important international organisations, with which we share the fundamental values in their field of operation and thus have taken on all rights and responsibilities to participate in their political processes. One of these responsibilities that we assume and exercise directly today is also some sort of mentoring responsibility that we have assumed in our relationship with our former brothers and sisters, if I say so, and the assistance they need in the integration processes into the international community and international organisations in those times. With our knowledge, experience and good practices, we want to help and to bear the best for all of you who are in the process of your accession to the international community and the international connection. We are very pleased that this has also been successfully achieved today, if I say so. At the 10th anniversary of Slovenian membership in the European Union and NATO, and with the adoption of the new Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia last June, we resumed this active role, which – not only in relation to our Member States in the Western Balkans region, but also in relation to the international community, to international organisations – we want to take on our shoulders and also take on responsibility. This means that this also includes support for the enlargement of NATO to the countries of the Western Balkans, of course to those who qualify for membership and demonstrate this intention. Support for NATO's open-door policy and enlargement with countries in the Western Balkans region is a clear external policy direction of the Republic of Slovenia, which is finally also visible from the strategic document Slovenia: safe, successful and respected in the world. Active Slovenian support for Montenegro in its accession to the North Atlantic Treaty is a model example of meeting our assigned foreign policy commitments to itself, the international community and, at the final stage, the direction and unwritten commitments to the Western Balkans region itself. The Republic of Slovenia is active and close, especially in the role of the NATO Contact Embassy in Montenegro, following the progress of Montenegro since the signing of the Protocol of Accession to the North Atlantic Treaty on 19 May this year. We are certainly aware of the importance of Montenegro's membership in NATO, not only for Montenegro, but also for the alliance and for other countries in the Western Balkans region. We see it as a positive signal for other countries that are on the path of joining Euro-Atlantic ties and, above all, as a very important factor in progress and stability in the Western Balkans region. For all these reasons, Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party give our full support to the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty. Allow me only very personally, on behalf of the Group of Members, our joy that we have also resumed this step by weaving the temporarily broken neither our cooperation nor our interrelationship. We know and see what your path is to progress, to progress towards democracy and stability, we welcome it, we congratulate you for it and we wish you all the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. In doing so, I inform you that the law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, 60 or more. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. As my colleague Vatovec has already said, we will vote against the United Left in the Group. The reasons for our vote are as follows. First of all, it must be said about Nate that NATO is not a collective self-defence organisation, as we read in his preamble, but has, since its establishment, been a front for military adventures in the West, in particular the United States. We see the last escapades in the Middle East, where NATO helped to destabilize the entire region, which is why Slovenia suffers directly in the form of a refugee crisis. Then, and its members are directly responsible for the chaos in the Middle East, and thus for causing the refugee crisis that we witnessed this autumn and winter. Secondly, NATO is not a union of equal states. Countries such as Slovenia or Montenegro have the explicit status of banana republics there, of course we have no voice in the most important decisions. Slovenia will not receive any international prestige, with the urgency that this government and the right opposition are forcing, but rather the opposite, because it is a consistent continuation of the service policy shown by Slovenian policy every time it faces Western interests. Third time. The approach takes place through the will of the Montenegrin people, and this meeting has also been preceded by a letter from the Vice-President of the Montenegrin Assembly. Because of this issue, the state is creased and I fear that after the accession, it will be creased even more, as the government has not hoped for a referendum, and the country has been plagued for months – not only by NATO, but by the general political crisis in the country which is further deepened by the question of NATO – by mass protests for months. Therefore, it is not good for the internal situation in Montenegro that this approach against the will of the Montenegrin people is fasting and that Slovenia supports the Montenegrin authorities in this haste. On the contrary, we fear that this will have more harmful effects on the internal situation in Montenegro as well. On the basis of everything we say, we will vote against it today. Not because we would have anything against Montenegro, but on the contrary, because we do not allow friendly countries the status of the Banana Republic and because we fear that this issue of the internal political crisis will only deepen in Montenegro. At the same time, I stress that in the United Left we are working to get out of NATO and in general for demilitarisation and peace policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u21	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities, Mr Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, ministers, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Dr. Gönz and I will support ratification. The space now occupied by Slovenia has never been as safe as it is now, since Slovenia became a member of NATO and a member of the European Union. Friendly Montenegro is on the same track and I want it to do everything necessary for EU membership as soon as possible. This will make an important contribution to security and cooperation in the Balkans and in the Adriatic-Ionian area, where opportunities for very fruitful cooperation are opening up. As far as Europe is concerned, Montenegro needs Europe, but Europe also uses Montenegro, very much like all the other countries that came from the former Yugoslavia, including friendly Albania. We can only wish together for this process to end successfully and as soon as possible. This will be a key point in stabilising the situation more broadly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u23	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u24	Thank you very much, President. Once again, in our parliamentary group, of course, we will vote in favour of Montenegro's entry into NATO. Why? Because we believe that this is the only way for Montenegro to continue its courageous path towards democracy and stability, both political and economic and everyone else. Like us, when we started on our own, we were able to start walking this path and walk it with the help of the international community and the support we receive from it. Today we understand our responsibility to make it possible for Montenegro to make progress. Allow me a few more words about the referendum. We, too, were informed by the opposition's work from Montenegro that citizens had no opportunity to express themselves at the referendum and show their will. We have been paying attention to this and have checked that citizens and citizens in Montenegro have several different opportunities to request a referendum, but this has not happened in this case of joining NATO in this country. These channels were therefore not used. Recent public surveys conducted in the country have shown that 47% of citizens and citizens support the country's entry into NATO and slightly over 35% oppose it. Another thing we've been looking at. Only 5 of the 28 NATO member states have so far held a referendum on the country's entry into NATO, which was – with exceptional Spain, which checked its continued commitment to NATO – the countries that came from the so-called authoritarian systems. Among them was Slovenia. I want to say that there is no need in the rule in democratically developed countries and that it is more or less likely to link this to political unrest and instability. This integration into the international community can also mean and bring relief from this point of view. Our votes are absolutely in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u25	First of all, I'm asking if there's any other explanation on behalf of the delegation. [[No, no, ……]] A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also vote for this because the NATO membership means that if one Member State is attacked, it is being assisted. So it's a defense organization. Nothing binds us to attack anyone. Nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u27	A self-explanation of the voice, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u28	Thank you very much. My colleagues have already said a lot about the opinion of the Joint Left Group. I absolutely support everything. I wouldn't say it again. I'll say something more personal. When we had a referendum on NATO or so many years ago, I was either the only high-ranking state official who I had hoped to oppose and also publicly express my opinion on why I object. I noticed then that a lot of people told me that they would speak publicly, but that they were afraid of him. Some kind of fear was publicly opposed among people [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] You can laugh, but it's not funny. This fear is quite real. It is real if you see how Slovenia has helped in Iraq to seek funds for the mass destruction of people, even though we have not found it for so long, except that we have received several million refugees from Iraq and Syria and everything else. We can also see what is happening in the former Soviet republics, where NATO is helping to power the extremely racist, nationalistic and even neo-Nazi groups that it supports. I think that Slovenia should act and help Montenegro and, of course, link broken ties in other areas. Montenegro needs help from many. I'll be personal here, too. I've helped establish the ombudsman of Montenegro decades ago, and I think it's the greatest security if you have human rights. Much more than a NATO that will do anything to destabilize the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u29	A self-explanation of the vote, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u30	Thank you, President. This ratification is now somehow accepted in a spirit of security, friendship, cooperation and so on. I would like to reiterate here once again the appeal sent by the Vice-President of the Assembly of Montenegro with the attached signatures of 19 Members of the 85 in which we are, in fact, against this ratification not to happen, because it would also, of course, have some far-reaching internal political consequences, including economic and so on. In short, I don't think it's a spirit of friendship. The spirit of friendship is listening and it is definitely not the spirit of friendship to unite and conclude agreements and pacts in the military field, such as the North Atlantic Treaty. We have a whole bunch of mechanisms, they are very well known at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with which we could offer development assistance, both in the field of human rights and democracy, if there is clearly too little degree in Montenegro. But the fact that Montenegro has its political elites through those countries that are already members of this agreement will somehow push us into this will not contribute to economic growth, nor to stabilisation, nor to greater democracy, but on the contrary. The budget is likely to be even more burdened by defence expenditure, and this is it. This is about the expansion of territory — we need to be clear here — which is what NATO is using for its interventions. These interventions have been mostly something the United States or larger colonial forces have been using in recent years to carry out their actions and their political economic interests, as we have seen twice in Ukraine, Georgia and the Middle East. I don't think it's something that would be a matter of cultivating friendly relationships, but it's the opposite. As for the state-of-the-art nature of this act, I would just say that state-of-the-art should be shown when we adopted a fiscal pact, a fiscal rule when we privatized companies or either [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-06-08-SDZ7-Izredna-33.ana.u31	Any other explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 3. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I congratulate my colleagues from Montenegro and conclude the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
