ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that we cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Marijan Pojbič, Andrej Chuš and Miha Kordiš. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REGULAR DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE MEDIA LAW. The State Council is at its 19th extraordinary session. 2. 2016 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 197(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Media. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Rajk Fajt.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of State notes that the amendment of the Media Law contains several controversial provisions which are inconsistent and questionable as to the proportionality of the functioning of the media, the autonomy of editors and authors, the freedom of expression of both media actors and listeners, and from a large perspective of interference with the free economic initiative. There is a dispute in Article 86, which lays down quotas. The time limit is problematic and the percentage of the implementation has already been set at 40% or 25% of the daily Slovenian music quota. The new law requires that 60% of this quota should be broadcast during the daily and most listening hours between 6 a.m. and 19 p.m., with at least 70% of this proportion being music, which is exclusively or in the majority part of the Slovenian language, except for radio, television programmes that broadcast instrumental music in the majority of the time. At least a quarter of this share must also be Slovenian music, first played not more than two years ago. It is important to point out that stakeholders have already been harmonised and agreed on the quota of 40% of Slovenian music, 50 per cent at night and 50 per cent at the daily time of 6-22 p.m. However, the biggest error was that there was a unilateral change in already harmonised criteria. So far 40% or 20% of evenly distributed Slovenian music throughout the day is acceptable and feasible. In this way, radio editors can maintain a respectful attitude towards their own music production while at the same time providing an overview of the world's music events and maintaining a varied music selection. The National Council points out that this means too much interference with editorial autonomy for radio broadcasters. Amendments mean too much of the legislator's influence on the programme content. It is an intervention in the constitutional rights and freedoms of music authors, editors, owners of radio houses and other players in the field of the music industry and the restriction of public interest. The Council of State considers that exerting influence on public media is contrary to the mission of public RTV services. The regulation adopted not only limits the free music regulation provided for in Article 7 of the current Media Law, but also limits the free economic initiative provided for in Article 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The strangeness of this situation is very well illustrated by the fact that the law is jointly opposed by national, regional and commercial media, which, by their very nature, are mostly each on their own shore. We also point to the non-life provision of Article 109, paragraph 7, which imposes additional reporting obligations on issuers, to a specific precise list of all 24 hours a year. In practice, this means that additional persons whose sole task is to record data on the programme submitted should be regularly employed only in order to be satisfied with Article 109, paragraph 7, of the non-life. When it comes to radio stations' obligations to produce a playlist for the supervisory authority, this is an unnecessary cost and burden, as playlists are already produced on SAZAS and IPF, therefore no specific lists are necessary. The new Article 109 also does not provide for a phase-out of the authorisation process. It is not specified which serious offences make the withdrawal measure meaningful and proportionate to the infringement. The new Article 109 does not specify anywhere which are easier and which are the most serious offences, in fact the only measure envisaged in Article 109 is the number of different forms of discontinuance of media broadcasting. Such a type of punishment should be an exceptional measure applied in exceptional cases, in the event of the worst and repeated infringements, but not in the case of any smallest offence committed by the media. The National Council therefore notes that the amended legislation is not acceptable because it does not increase support for Slovenian music, does not improve the position of Slovenian music creators, restricts Slovenian radio programmes, rather than enriching them, reduces diversity and takes the choice of audiences, rather than spreading, excessive interference with autonomy and the work of software creators, makes the work of music editors and in particular radio broadcasters more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u3	The request was addressed by the Committee on Culture as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u4	Dear President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! The Committee on Culture is at its 9th emergency session. 2. 2016 addressed the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Act submitted by the Government to the Assembly, which was adopted at its 15th regular session of 28. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for a re-decision on the law, stressing that the State Council has not supported the law due to the time limit and percentage determination of the implementation of the 40 % daily quota of Slovenian music for individual RTV programmes and 25 % for radio and television programmes of particular importance. He pointed out that this was an obvious intervention in the constitutional rights and freedoms of musicians, editors, owners of radio houses and other players in the music industry by clearly jeopardising public interest. In 2016, he considered that such a strong influence on the public media was contrary to the logic and mission of public RTV services, which was also pointed out by well-known constitutional lawyers. Among other things, the Minister of Culture said that she rejected the findings of the State Council as the law was prepared on the basis of a broad public debate. She said that the proportions of Slovenian music played have been valid since 2006 and the novel does not change them. However, the key changes introduced by the new Article 26th paragraph are to ensure that at least 60% of the Slovenian music's share is played during the daily broadcast time between 6th and 19th hours. Some radio programmes provide a legal obligation to play Slovenian music mainly during the nighttime broadcast, thus playing a clear purpose of the law. By limiting the daily time of playing Slovenian music, it is intended to ensure greater access to music at a time when the reach of potential listening is the highest. She also explained that the protection and promotion of Slovenian language and thus the preservation of Slovenian cultural and national identity has been one of its main purposes and objectives since the beginning of media regulation. At the time of their presentation of their opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that, on a question where the Council of State argues that the solutions contained in Article 86, which interfere with freedom of expression and free economic initiative, were limited to the autonomy of the music editors resulting from Article 7 of the Media Act, the legislative procedure specifically warned their Law and Law Service. For other indications of a substantive nature by the Council, the Legislative and Legal Service is not defined because they exceed the scope of its business tasks. In the context of the debate, some discussers considered that there was generally insufficient patriotism and use of Slovenian language in society and that legislation should be adapted to allow radio stations to be positively discriminated against on the basis of quotas. Others said they supported the objectives and purpose of the law, but the explanation given by AKOS in this regard was sufficient with some difficulty in clarifying or interpreting the new Article 109, which regulates the area of control and storage of recordings and data of programme content. The State Council’s observation that the creation of a record of Slovenian musical works, which were broadcast at most two years ago, was also considered unjustified, was that the competent ministry was problematic. The decision on the quality of the music works themselves and their inclusion in the music scheme will, after the novel, continue to be fully reserved to the music editors without any restrictions, which was highlighted in particular by the Ministry of Culture. At the end of the discussion, the SMC Group also made a promise that they would once again take a new Article 86 into account and re-examine it. After the discussion, the committee, by voting eight coalition votes in favour and none against, which was just enough for the opinion to be adopted that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Law was appropriate, concluded the debate and that would be all from the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u5	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as the bill's proponent, Minister of Culture Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u6	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Good day to those who watch this on television. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Law in the re-decision. With the amendment of the law, we want to correct some of the substantive shortcomings and uncertainties that make it impossible to implement the individual provisions in a consistent manner, to which we have been warned in recent years by the competent Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture and Media, or the regulator of the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. An important amendment to the amendment of the law is also to ensure that at least 60% of the proportion of Slovenian music referred to in Article 86 of the Act is played during the daily broadcasting period between 6 and 19 hours. Some radio programmes provide a legal obligation to play Slovenian music mainly during the nighttime broadcast, thus playing a clear purpose of the law, which is that Slovenian music is to the greatest extent available to listeners. The Interstat survey shows that from 22 to 6 p.m. every day only 4.3% of the population listens to music played at Slovenian radio stations, which means that the pressure of Slovenian music during the night causes the inaccessibility of Slovenian music to almost all the population. The bill was prepared on the basis of a broad public debate involving representative and professional organisations in the field of media, journalism, advertising and music, video or film creation, NGOs in the field of culture, media and human rights, media publishers, political parties and all relevant state bodies. The draft law was also sent to the previous opinion of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma communities in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, it is worth noting that the Ministry of Culture has received written support from the Association of Poets of Slovenian Music, the Union of Music Artists of Slovenia, the Slovenian Union of Music Artists, the Music Forum and important support from some of the organisations of the Slovenians. In the last edition, the area of control was also fully coordinated with the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. However, in the context of the Committee on Culture, all editorial and nomological corrections were also taken into account on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The shares of Slovenian music are set out in the Media Act since its entry into force in 2001 at this level, which is 20% for private publishers’ programmes, 25% for programmes of special importance and 40% for RTV Slovenia programmes and 40% for daily music production has not been amended since 2006 and the News of the Media Act has not changed them. Such percentages are no exception, as they are also known by many other countries that protect their language and music creativity, such as France, Croatia, Hungary, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Australia, Canada, Malaysia, South Africa and others. In this regard, it is also worth noting that they are aware of the music quotas, which are particularly protected by the mother tongue, including the much larger countries with an incomparable higher volume of music, such as France, which has 40 % quotas, of which at least half of them are French, Portugal, which has 25 to 40 % quotas, of which at least 60 % in Portuguese, and Canada, 35% of the weekly popular music must be Canadian music and at French-speaking radio stations must be at least 65 % of music in French. The public service obligations of RTV Slovenia under the Radiotelevision Act also include the presentation and promotion of Slovenian culture and the promotion of cultural creativity, part of which is certainly Slovenian music. The new law provides minimum protection for listeners and Slovenian music cultural creativity, as according to the new public radio frequencies, Slovenian music will also be heard during the day in proportions around other quotas, meaning that Val 202 will be playing about four Slovenian songs between nine songs, Radio 1, and that it will be playing about two Slovenian songs between nine songs, which, of course, corresponds to other mandatory quotas during the day. This is certainly not an excessive obligation of national radio or commercial radios. However, since it is a very short time, so I do not have it, I can only add that the Government as unfounded has rejected other revelations of the State Council, such as violations of the autonomy of editors and authors, freedom of expression and free economic initiative, as well as the costs that should bring new ones. Dear Members and Members! For all of this, because of the common cultural interest of Slovenia, I kindly ask you to support the amendment of the media law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u8	Good morning, everyone! Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Media Law has received a great deal of attention and long-term treatment in our parliamentary benches. The main changes to the law could be summarised in four points so that the online media publisher can withdraw controversial comments and comments, which can also be defined as hate speech, in the shortest possible time, then increase the availability of Slovenian music in radio programmes at the time when potential audiences are most likely, promote media space for newer Slovenian music creativity and properly regulate the area of control and storage of recordings and data of programming content. Although the Council of State has challenged the last three amendments to this law in its rejection position, Members of the Modern Centre Party have always considered that we have no doubts as to the purpose and objectives of the proposed amendments, nor do we accept the indications of the State Council that the amended legislation is not acceptable and requires a reinstatement. In the re-negotiation of the Media Law, there has always been an impression in the public that this law is either very much or even setting up or very excessively changing the proportions of Slovenian music in radio programmes. However, these so-called quotas have been in our legislation since 2001 and to the current extent since 2006, but the fact is that such private radio stations, which have a 20% legal quota, as a national radio with a 40% share of Slovenian music, have met these prescribed quotas in most of the time during the night. This means that they have no real effect, as it is known that the radio only listens to about 4% of the population during the night. Therefore, all concerns about excessive intervention in editorial policy about intervention in a free economic initiative fall within the period of establishment of quotas for radio programmes, i.e. ten years ago. We therefore agree with some of the concerns that have been expressed in the consideration of the legal provision in Article 86. The provision, which ensures that the 60% share of the total quota of Slovenian music between 6 and 19 hours is still subject to different interpretations and doubts and is realistic, taking into account the fact that the programme of the national radio has significantly changed the relationship between the speech and music programme. Of course, it is questionable especially when the speech part of the programme is more important than usual. Despite these concerns, however, Members of the SMC believe that there are many right and good solutions in the law that need to be supported. We regret that the issues of this amendment of the law have not come to light until after adoption, so we have decided that even after the final adoption or the rejection of the veto, if the National Assembly votes, we will not allow the law to cause problems to our media space. 86. but we will therefore immediately put the article back on track and prepare a possible change in direction so that it does not allow different interpretations. We expect from the Ministry of Culture a thorough analysis of the media landscape in the country, which must give us clearer answers, how much quotas contribute to the preservation of Slovenian music creativity and Slovenian language in our media space.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, a nice greeting to Members and Members of Parliament! At the end of January, we adopted a new Law on Media and, given that the State Council has voted the procrastination veto, we will vote again today. Let me begin by expressing my expectation that the novel will receive sufficient support. Both during the course of the drafting of the bill and during the entire legislative procedure, the provision governing the quotas for Slovenian music has been given the highest attention. Although the quota is not being introduced, it was already introduced in 2001. The current amount, that is to say, that Slovenia must have at least 20% of daily music or 40% in the case of RTV Slovenia, has been in force since 2006. The law we passed a month ago changes only the time interval at which it must be satisfied with these quotas, so that Slovenian music will also be placed during the daytime of the show and will be available to the audience even at the time when the radio is actually the most listening. The State Council has cited as the most problematic the time limit and percentage determination of the implementation of the 40 per cent daily Slovenian music quota for individual RTV programmes of Slovenia and 25 per cent for radio and television programmes of particular importance. In support of its re-decision requirement, it also states, inter alia, that the novel restricts the freedom, economic initiative and autonomy of music editors. In the Desus Group, we supported the bill and will also vote again. We believe that change is necessary and that there is an unjustified claim that such a high quota is inaccessible and disproportionate. Editors will continue to be able to determine their programmes independently, they will have to take into account only the time interval, so that Slovenian music can be heard even in the day and will not be removed in late night hours. The law does not impose on them which Slovenian and which foreign music must play in their programmes. Nor does it interfere with the content of speech shows; only a share of Slovenian music is determined, which will have to be heard in the day. Those who claim that quotas have no problems and that they have been taken into account so far will not have any problems in the future. Given that we have heard the comments of interested groups during the procedure, as well as after the veto, that the quotas are too complicated and that the law is impossible to apply in practice, if it turns out that these concerns were justified, we will approach the amendment of the law as soon as possible. The fact is that we adopt laws after examining all possible effects, but sometimes only after the law has been enacted and applied in practice will it prove to have certain shortcomings. And if this is the case, of course, we will approach the preparation of the changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u12	President, thank you. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Caring for Slovenian music creativity is a subject of legal matter, which is in one way or another derived from the constitutional placement of the Slovenian language. Thus, she found her place in the umbrella strategic document on culture, Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2014-2017. As such, it is placed among the values of particular concern and cannot be left alone or excluded by the principles of the free market or economy or its legality. Many associations and individuals representing the interests of radio broadcasters have also turned to us after the elected veto of the State Council. In the presentation of the reasons for the opposition to the bill, certain shortcomings have been identified, which we cannot ignore as a responsible parliamentary group, and we are therefore faced with a dilemma before re-assessment, whether the arguments on alleged excessive interference with the speech programme, in particular the Radio Slovenije programme, and the presumption of excessive administration are sufficient reason to reject the bill in its entirety. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are most confident that we do not. For we believe that supporting the veto of the State Council would constitute a renewed step back in supporting creativity in all areas. Nevertheless, in the framework of the coalition, we will actively approach the drafting of corrections that will also remove legitimate doubts. Support for the proposed novel is support for Slovenian music. This is how only the Social Democrats understand it irresistibly, and that is how Slovenian musicians perceive it. They point out that, over the last 15 years, policies have shown insufficient concern for their own contribution to the promotion of the conditions for the development of music production. Moreover, it has denied them support in other areas, in particular in the field of proper regulation of the activities of collective organisations as a tool that has a significant impact on the material substance of the Slovenian musician. Through the work of government officials, she allowed the hunt for imaginary witches and under the cover of alleged concern for transparency, which, by the way, expresses the interest of all of us, participated in attempts to decommission the system, which is supported by authors of a significant proportion of the repertoire of Slovenian music. Some of the activities of the state administration have recently been marked by the Supreme Court as nothing. Respected and respected! One of the parole projects of the national radio station, which through various ways supports Slovenian music production, reads, We have good music. And in the past weeks, when we were able to monitor various events during the days of Slovenian fun music, we were able to judge it ourselves. But it is thrilling that there are many young people among us or among them — I am not a musician — many young, talented authors and performers. It is right to provide them with an environment that will allow them to be heard on public frequencies, which are public good, even during the daytime. Let me repeat, Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats, with the same number of votes as in the third reading of the proposal for a new law, we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. The News of the Media Law, which we are re-declaring today, is obviously problematic. Throughout the whole process, the coalition has not been able to find the right solutions, so it will, as is understood from the positions and forecasts presented, still vote. In the United Left, we will not oppose or support the law, but unfortunately, the question of musical quotas has been raised so that the other provisions of the novel have not received almost no attention at all. In any case, it is worth supporting a provision governing hate speech on the Internet or online commenting. Online comments are often a collection of chauvinism, sexism, xenophobia, and other stereotypes that pass into hate speech. While exacerbating the social situation, when racism and discrimination have become our new reality, such a measure is certainly important, although we must be aware that it is only a minimal contribution to improving the situation in this area. Regarding the music quotas, we have repeatedly expressed skepticism in the United Left. It is supposed to be Slovenian music, Slovenian language. I wonder how many family knees down there and how many miles across the border we can go to get that stamp. But we have not heard much about quality music, such music, which stimulates cultural creativity, which touches people and people take it for their own. Music is a universal rumor. Music becomes Slovenian through the process of processing consumption and reproduction. The performer can have a certificate from Slovenia, but his music can be completely empty and at best is a sound stage, and at worst it is a sound disorder. The quotas can contribute positively to the development of the quality and diversity of music to a certain extent. While it is an administrative measure that does not focus on the level of production where music is produced, it has a limited impact. Nevertheless, especially with the clairvoyant state in the field of broadcasting and popular music can be a step towards improving the situation. The State is a vehicle of public cultural interest and as such responsible for music culture, not only in the public media. At the same time, it is necessary to ask why the situation in the field of private broadcasting is so clarinet. The answer should already be found in the privatisation of national television frequencies in the mid-1990s when one of the first wild privatisations took place under the strong influence of private lobbying around the then ruling party. But we do know how the story developed from this to the fact that there is a radio empire in this area today and quite a few small stations that are mostly in a difficult position. The main objections that came from each side were that quotas in their current form would interfere with the free economic initiative and would limit the autonomy of music editors. The first reason does not hold up our political judgment, and the second, which has been discussed mainly by public Val 202, is to be taken into account, especially since Val 2020 is among the rare honorable exceptions that systematically promote quality, as well as the less established domestic music – from Numbered to Compilation, we have good music. It should be noted that the novel does not offer any guarantee of quality and variety of music. Above all, there is no guarantee of the promotion of young and less established musicians, which our amendment demanded, and unfortunately, it ran into a deaf ear. For this reason, we can rightly conclude that only some of the most exposed, and especially the most commercially interesting musicians, including the music produced by media owners, will be filled. The largest of the quotas in this form will be musical tenants. The quota system makes sense only if it is involved in broader incentives for the development of domestic music production, that is to say, it would encourage younger and unenforced performers, improve the economic and social position of musicians and allow the quality and diversity of the entire music scene to grow from production to concerting and other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u15	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mrs Ljudmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The new media law, which the State Council has returned to us in re-decision, has sparked many controversy all the time in the National Assembly. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, we discussed the proposed solutions with virtually all stakeholders: musicians, trade unions, representatives of the ministry and AKOS, and representatives of public and private media. All except the Ministry, which proposes the novel, are in common that they are not satisfied with the proposal for a law. Radio editors have calculated to prove that a complex quota will be extremely difficult to manage and calculate because of the speech programme and extraordinary events. Of course, it saddens me that we have to prescribe by law how much Slovenian music will be played at our radio stations. We are Christian Democrats for the freeest possible economic initiative, which can only be achieved through simple procedures. In our opinion, media space is an exception because it sets standards and educates adults and young people. 20%, as currently the quota for commercial radio stations, is a small proportion of the regulated Slovenian music. We believe that the current regulation of the area is largely too complicated and opaque. The law, in our view, is also outdated and belongs to the past. The media, especially radio stations, point out that the digitalisation of the radio is approaching, which brings out new challenges for media space regulation. The novelty does not really respond to these challenges, but it brings even more complex formulas and solutions. As most Slovenian laws go in the direction of pre-normation. Performers will have to deal too much with bureaucracy, which means less time and energy to develop basic activities. Sometimes everything goes beyond the measure of common sense, which is true for many areas that our legislation imposes on them unreasonable administrative obstacles. In Novi Slovenije we reiterate that with the prescribed quotas we do not solve problems, we propose to reverse the concept of a solution for as many Slovenian music as possible in radio programmes. Let radio stations prove how much Slovenian music they play and be classified on the basis of these data in the allocation of frequencies, in the nomination for media resources and other benefits. In this way, we will positively encourage the media to increase the share of Slovenian music. The proposed novels of the Law on Media Members of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats will not be supported again. We call on the competent ministry to introduce a new law into the National Assembly as soon as possible, which will be previously coordinated with all stakeholders and will address the challenges of the digital media era at an appropriate level.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u17	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Your Honor! When it seemed that the Ministry of Culture would succeed in another without major problems with the new Media Law, it was a bit stuck in the State Council. Despite the Minister of Culture's conviction that the law does not change quotas at all, state councillors and councillors, as explained today, have decided that we must re-examine this amendment of the law. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we voted in the same manner in all the discussions that have been held so far. Today, too, we still believe that the novel does not bring solutions to promote the production of quality Slovenian music. The quotas may provide more Slovenian music on radio stations, but we wonder what this music will be. Is it really going to be quality? And will it be a reflection of editorial policy, or will radio stations play music that will satisfy quotas, but will it not make a significant contribution to maintaining cultural and linguistic identity? We are convinced that better conditions should be provided for the creation of quality Slovenian music, which would then be broadcast on television and radio programmes. In our view, the solution for more Slovenian music cannot only be in quotas. We expect comprehensive solutions from the Ministry of Culture to promote the production of quality Slovenian music. Possible solutions range from encouraging those programmes that support quality music creation to supporting concerts, music publishing, international cooperation and similar measures. However, judging from the last debate on the Committee on Culture, we are not afraid of that. The modern centre's party has announced that the law before us will otherwise be passed, but that together they will approach the much broader revision of the media legislation that we urgently need as soon as possible. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we expect the Minister to deliver with her team on the promise made by the Members of the Modern Centre Party and, above all, that we will soon be adopting such laws as will bring better solutions in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill on international protection within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of the Interior Mag. Spring Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! In autumn 2015, the Republic of Slovenia was under extreme migratory pressure. To date, more than 470,000 migrants have entered and crossed Slovenia. Until recently, there has been no increase in the number of applicants for international protection in Slovenia, and due to various measures and restrictions on the entry of migrants into the target countries, we have also seen an increase in international protection in the Republic of Slovenia in the last two weeks. 112 people have requested this protection, nearly 30% of all requests since the beginning of the so-called second refugee wave. Between mid-September and 25 February, 388 people, the largest of whom were Afghan, Iraqi, Syrian, Iranian and Pakistani nationals, requested international protection. The Republic of Slovenia responded quickly and in an agreed or prepared manner to the increase in applications for international protection. In accordance with the Law on International Protection, the Government has adopted a decision establishing two positions of asylum at home. Since last year, contingents have also prepared a plan of the Republic of Slovenia to provide accommodation and care in the event of an increase in the number of applicants for international protection. Despite the increased number of requests for international protection, the Ministry manages the situation and accommodation and care procedures for applicants are carried out in accordance with the agreed plan. By 21 February 2016, 97 applications lodged in so-called refugee waves were resolved. In 42%, the procedure was stopped because of the arbitrary abandonment of the asylum home, seven applications were granted and recognised refugee status and two persons were granted subsidiary protection. According to the information gathered and the information available to us, the migration flows through Turkey across the Western Balkans will not change, nor can internal borders between the Member States of the European Union remain closed. Migration policy in the Member States of the Union, which adopt the largest number of applicants, is tightened, standards are reduced, measures taken with the so-called deterrent effect are taken. In those circumstances, the Government has confirmed the text of the new Law on International Protection, which we are considering today. The basic reason for adoption is the obligation to transpose European Union legislation, namely two directives. The law also sets out a more detailed way of implementing the Dublin Regulation and the Eurodac Regulation. The aim of the European Union is to harmonise international protection legislation and establish a common European asylum system, as we would like in Slovenia. Of course, we must admit that this is far from reality. The current migration crisis has further revealed a number of differences between Member States and asylum and migration policy systems and has led governments in the proposal for a new International Protection Act and a timely response to the current migration crisis and a potentially emerging situation. With the new legislative framework, the Government wants to allow rapid and effective decision-making procedures to those for whom it will be found that we really need this protection to provide a good basis so that they can join the Slovenian society as soon as possible and successfully and, on the other hand, to provide a basis for an effective return policy for those who are not eligible for international protection. The level of applicants for international protection does not change with the new law and the Government proposes to the legislator that the scope of the rights of persons with recognised international protection should be reduced where they exceed the minimum standards imposed by the European legislative framework. The draft law redefines the right to a financial compensation for personal accommodation. One-off cash assistance shall be abolished, with persons for international protection in the field of social benefits being equivalent to nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. It is proposed that the compensation for private accommodation be abolished for family members who have been merged by a person with subsidiary protection, without prejudice to social transfers. Finally, I would like to point out that Slovenia has also adopted the Geneva Convention by means of a notification act. International protection in Slovenia is a constitutionally protected category. From everything mentioned in the proposal for a new Law on International Protection, we are also committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system and sharing burdens and solidarity between Member States. However, we are adapting to the new situation that we have been given either because of historical circumstances, because of the transit position of our country, the migration flow, the unforeseeable behaviour of our neighbours and the current economic conditions in which we must operate. I also propose that, pursuant to Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the law shall also take place at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u21	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Hello, everybody! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 16th session. 2. 2016 as a parent working body was considered by the Government of the Proposal for an Law on International Protection. The draft law was tabled within the time limit for amendments to the SDS, New Slovenia, the United Left and proposals for amendments to the committee of the parliamentary coalition groups. In the introduction to the explanatory memorandum, the representative of the applicants explained the reasons for the adoption of the proposal for a law which is mainly in the transposition of European Union law, two directives and a more detailed way of implementing the Dublin Regulation and the harmonisation of asylum legislation with the other Member States of the European Union with a view to establishing a common European legal system. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that in their written opinion they had expressed a number of constitutional concerns about individual provisions as well as comments of a nomotechnic nature. It highlighted the comment made on Article 84, which regulates the restriction of movement in an asylum home. Finally, she commented on the proposal for an amendment of the coalition committee to the said article given at the meeting and in the work of allowing judicial protection against a decision to extend the measure for one month and explained that she took full account of the comment in question. The Deputy Ombudsman has raised some concerns about the concept of safe countries, which does not fully follow the constitutional provision, with X-ray measures to assess the age of unaccompanied minors and the article setting out the content of the reduced procedure, the granting of international protection status at borders, airports, ports, as it is not clear how these reduced procedures are to be carried out in practice. The Commission's representative for the state regulation of the Council of State said that the Commission supports the proposal for a law. Representatives of NGOs also had certain comments. The NGO's Legal Information Centre made some comments on the individual articles of the bill and expressed its support for the proposed amendments of the United Left Group, as it was problematic to point out the anticipated non-suspensive nature of the remedies in accelerated procedures and to disagree on the proposed deprivation of social rights. In Amnesty International, disagreement has been expressed with the tightening of asylum policy, as despite the large number of migrants, the relatively small number of those who have applied for international protection status in the Republic of Slovenia is relatively low. The representative of Slovenian philanthropy expressed his concern about the procedures in which vulnerable groups were involved, unaccompanied minors who should be adequately trained and some other comments. As a central problem in the process of granting international protection status, the representative of the Peace Institute highlighted the need to preserve individual rights. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee raised some questions and concerns regarding the country's security policy in the future and the possibility of setting up a migration office. The members of the Committee have different definitions as to the need to sharpen asylum policy in response to the current situation. In accordance with the second paragraphs of Article 130 and Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and voted on proposals for amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD committees and adopted them, on proposals for amendments to the SMC Group's Committee of Ambassadors, and adopted them, on the amendments of the United Left, SDS and NSI groups and did not accept them. Finally, he voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u24	Colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens! A public opinion poll on migration issues was published on one of the Slovenian TVs a while ago. Citizens and citizens also answered the following questions: Can migrants threaten peace in Europe and threaten European values? Nearly 80% of citizens and citizens responded firmly to both questions. Above all, the government or ruling coalition is the one who should have taken this data extremely responsible for ensuring the security of the country and of citizens and citizens, even today when the proposal for an international protection law was introduced into the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been asking the Government for months to adopt approaches, following the example of other European countries, to draft amendments to the International Protection Act or to draft proposals to tighten asylum legislation. Since this did not happen, we did so in the SDS and prepared a proposal for amendments to the law, which followed the solutions adopted in other countries, such as Austria, Sweden, Denmark, Germany. Nevertheless, this time the coalition did not surprise and rejected our marriage proposal. While other European countries, following the first changes in legislation to exacerbate the situation, have already adopted renewed or additional legal tightenings, our government has not been able to prepare a bill on international protection that would justify the confidence of citizens and citizens and cast down their concerns. The proposed law simply does not offer appropriate solutions. For some of the bright exceptions proposed in the law, the government does not even know how they can be implemented. The fact that the Government as a fundamental reason for the adoption of the Law on International Protection highlights the three-year-old European directive shows that the Government is still unaware of the negative consequences of missed opportunities, wrong priorities and failed approaches to resolving the migration crisis. All of this has already proved to be true in setting up fences that are not even fences. Finally, it is reflected in setting up migrants across Slovenia, that I am not talking about concealing and transferring the data of the President of the Government on real calculations, as much as it will cost us at all. Of course, when it comes to humanitarian issues, it is convenient to talk about urgency and broadheartedness, empathy and tolerance. What about the attitude toward your own people? Why, in this case, tolerance is reborn into impatience and with the desire for violence disguised as a cold weapon in hand is somehow emphasized simply so that citizens simply cannot do what they would expect of them. How can they help more if the last one is not enough? In Slovenia, there are over 300,000 people living in poverty, about 100,000 are unemployed, many warn us that they are just ahead. 4,000 of our citizens live on the streets, about 160,000 people receive aid from humanitarian organizations. Of course, it is right and imperative that we help those families who have been driven into the world by war and suffering. What if it's not about that anymore? When it comes no longer to vulnerable groups, when it comes to those who exploit the situation and also illegally cross the borders of the European Union with the help of Slovenia? Many of them are problematic in many ways. Today, the countries of the West and the North are bringing them back. This trend, it seems, will only increase. Dear colleagues in the coalition, are you really willing to sacrifice the security of your own country just to keep you in power with the new voters? From this city, I tell citizens and citizens that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have proposed several amendments to strengthen the asylum legislation that is adapted to the state of Slovenia and that we are following other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mag. Jana Jenko will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Since October, the Republic of Slovenia has been under extreme migratory pressure. Since 16 October, some 476 thousand migrants have entered the country. However, I must point out here that despite this high number, 414 people have submitted an application for recognition of international protection in the Republic of Slovenia to date. This number shows that, despite the fact that Slovenia is under severe migratory pressure, nothing special has happened to date in the field of international protection. The question is, of course, how long will the situation continue and when this situation may change? In the light of the continued violence in Syria and Iraq, unfortunately, there is no solution to the rapid cessation of migration flows, so the European Union will have to take more permanent measures as migration waves against Europe will continue to be present for a long time. The fact is that the absence of a common European migration policy leads to the search for unilateral solutions to the migration policy of individual countries, which is already the result of the impact of domination. For example, the northern countries are still talking about open-door policies, while at the same time closing and tightening the reception policy of migrants. On the other hand, we have countries facing the reality of thousands of migrants who just want to achieve their goal and do not want to stay in these countries. In the Desus Group, we are therefore convinced that it is these countries, particularly Greece and Macedonia, that migration flows should be assisted and thus limited. An agreement will have to be reached on common criteria for entering the Western Balkan route. In all this, it must be said that in no way can Slovenia be the victims of the uncoordinated policies of the countries in the north, because in the absence of agreements Slovenia will also be forced to take even more decisive action at its border. We all want to ensure the safety of all citizens, there is no dilemma about that. All the measures taken so far by the Government have made it possible for our citizens to be safe, as well as allow for the safety of refugees. It is also true that countries that have adopted the largest number of migrants and applicants for international protection are tightening the conditions for obtaining international protection status. Many standards in these countries are falling. The so-called deterrence measures are also being adopted. In view of the above, we have today on our side the proposal for an international protection law, whose main reason for adoption is the obligation to transpose European Union legislation into the national legal order, namely the two directives governing the standards of procedures for the recognition of international protection and the admission of applicants for international protection. The European Union aims at harmonising international protection legislation and establishing a common European asylum system. But unfortunately, as I have already said, we are still far from this goal, so the proposal for a new Law on International Protection focuses mainly on a timely response to the current migration crisis and on a potentially emerging situation that we can expect. Faster and more efficient procedures for deciding on applications for international protection are provided. Therefore, the goal is to identify who really needs protection as quickly as possible and who is not entitled to protection. The proposal for a new law on international protection adapts Slovenia to the new situation in which it is mainly due to its transit role. In the light of everything mentioned in the Desus Group, we support the proposal for a law on international protection. We are convinced that the Government is taking the right measures, and these measures must be continued. But let me conclude with the event on the protests about the establishment of accommodation centres. In the Desus Group, we call for peace, solidarity and assistance to the needy. Unfortunately, we have witnessed the opposite in recent days. The right political sex has used protests to benefit from the gathering of political points, which is by no means acceptable in a given situation. And we must not forget, in the first place, we should be for humanitarianism, but not for political smooching. As the Prime Minister has already said, Slovenia must help people in distress, especially vulnerable groups such as children and women and all those who cannot help themselves. However, it is important that people are aware of what is happening, that they are looking for common solutions, and in this way we try to avoid unnecessary fear among people, because it is fear that usually triggers a sharp response, which we also witness in Slovenia. Therefore, in the Desus Group of the Government and all the competent authorities, we expect to be informed of the activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greeting to all in the hall! That migration is part of the modern world and that the idea of the movement of people, goods and services is integrated into the idea of the European Union, I already said at the December meeting of the National Assembly. Migration flows take place every day, on all sides of the sky, in countries with different cultural and religious customs, due to the economic needs of an individual, due to the need for economic development of society, the development of trade, education and, last but not least, the desire to learn about other countries and their cultural heritage. Unfortunately, it is in this very place where cultural heritage reaches far before we count and where it is supposed to be a cradle of civilization that there are wars of horrors that the oldest Europeans are reliving with fear. Military operations between various religious groups and the Western Council are mainly fought for the money and the power of the sand. The people who were at home in this hell, where power is constantly measured, have joined this migratory-refugee stream. Yes, it's a multimillion-dollar crowd of refugees, children, women, the elderly and also men. This crowd of refugees was created by the realization of some of the flawed plans, where Objective A was written, but not Goal B or Goal C. In fact, sometimes it seems to have been planned all along. I'm sorry. Slovenia sided with countries that exacerbate the policy on the refugee issue, although the current Slovenian legislation on refugees and foreigners was unforgivable, and the Slovenian economic and economic situation was not promising for both economic migrants and refugees, as well as the attitude towards others is negative and also hateful. Unfortunately, the proposal for a new law on international protection, which we are considering today at the plenary session, does not offer any more favourable solutions to refugees. In addition to maintaining the existing level of rights of applicants and persons with recognised international protection, which is already at a minimum level of standards, it further tightens it with individual solutions and, on the other hand, attempts to mitigate it with amendments. Will all these measures, which Slovenia and the Member States of the European Union are planning, stop the refugee flows, be seen only in the coming weeks and months. At this point, we should call on the international community to take a more serious approach to resolving the situation in the countries from which the main refugees and, consequently, economic migrants come. In particular, military operations must be halted in the region, stronger commitments made by the parties to bring about peace, only peace in these areas will halt the million-dollar refugee flow. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have endeavoured to ease the law by means of certain amendments that we will support, so that it will be more compassionate for people who leave their homes and ask for international protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members, all of you who follow! We are faced with the collapse of the Institute of International Protection. If the members of the European Union have in practice been engaged in illegal proceedings against refugees all the time, the Government of Constitutional Lawyer Mir Cerar will even legislate with the help of the coalition and the right hand of all these illegalities and serious breaches of international law. The adoption of the Law on International Protection is just another proof that the policy of this government is dictated by the right; the right hand, which, by promoting hatred and unwarranted fear, is the spirit of fascism, the right hand, which in order to achieve its objectives does not choose resources or methods. The new law on international protection is the culmination of a series of totally inappropriate government responses to the refugee crisis. It is already deliberately reduced by extremely low standards of international protection in Slovenia, but radically lowering standards for the government and coalition is not enough. The Government and the coalition will adopt a law which is in several provisions in direct conflict with international and European asylum law and not least with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The government follows only two objectives with this law; the first is to deter as many people as possible from applying for asylum in Slovenia; and the other, who will nevertheless be able to apply, to expel them from the country after an accelerated procedure. In achieving this goal, the Government and the coalition are reviving international humanitarian and asylum law and the whole constitution. The government coalition is aware that, due to such illegal and totally inhumane measures, the humanitarian crisis along the Balkan route will turn into a humanitarian disaster. The European countries, in turn, place the burden on each other and because the European Union once again did not know how to offer a solution, the right hand offered it. Slovenia is responsible for this state and the adoption of laws, such as today, only makes it worse. The result of this action is a humanitarian disaster in Greece, the first country on the Balkan route, and an increase in the far right across Europe. But the government and the coalition are not dealing with the possible consequences of their actions. Instead of acting towards reconciliation, people are removed from the discourse and demands of the right. And the Law on International Protection is just that! The law is the basis for the mass rejection of applicants on the basis of the fact that they have come to us from another Member State of the European Union. The protections in Slovenia will not be able to obtain even those who have come to us from the hotspots of war. It should be clear to all that this is a practice that is totally illegal and contrary to virtually all international and European commitments, as well as the Constitution. But this is where the story doesn't end. It is also totally unconstitutional that the suspension effect of the action brought is abolished. The applicants will thus be rejected and expelled after a rapid procedure. Before the deadline for the appeal expires, Slovenia will send them back to war; a war supported by Slovenia. The government and the coalition have decided on such rigorous and even unconstitutional measures without any explanation and without discussion. This is logical, of course, because the argument for such proposals cannot be found. It is already impossible to say any valid reason to lower the standards for asylum seekers contained in the basic proposal. The number of applications has not increased dramatically and is practically at the same level in the last 20 years, and the percentage of granted status is still low. Over the past 20 years, we have granted protection to a total of only 390 people and only five during the so-called refugee crisis. This law applies only to these persons. This law does not refer to 422 thousand 724 people who crossed Slovenia between 17 October 2015 and 25 January 2016, it speaks only of 85 people who are still waiting for a decision, and of five who have been recognised. In the United Left, we have tabled amendments to the proposal to guarantee refugees fundamental human rights and minimum standards. With the amendments, we try to reintroduce at least that minimum, repair that worst damage. Since this is primarily about eliminating the unconstitutional and obvious violations of international humanitarian and asylum law, we expect support. We expect the coalition's support before the elections for the rule of law and respect for human rights; we expect the support of the government led by the country's most influential lawyer. Failure to support the proposals of the United Left will only be seen as a failure to support commitments under international law and the Constitution and as explicit support for right-wing policies, the promotion of hatred and fear.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u32	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister and Mr Secretary of State, Mr President-in-Office! Six months after the European Union has thus become a prisoner of the migrant crisis, it is now clear to all that there will be no common European solution and, in all its knowledge, it is logical for individual countries to act and resolve migration issues in accordance with the interests of their own country and their own citizens. And in this light, in particular in this light, we should today adopt a new law on international protection. Its content should be a reflection of all the facts related to the migrant crisis, of the many consequences that a large number of migrants have for our country. The adoption of this legislation should, in particular, take into account the economic aspect on the one hand of the capacity of the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, the security issue. Why do we emphasise the tightening of asylum legislation in New Slovenia? For the first time, because Slovenia is becoming an increasingly targeted country, the target country cannot, because Austria is closing its borders, for those migrants who want only to cross the Republic of Slovenia and move to Austria. Secondly, due to the return of the migrant wave, as Slovenia is also becoming a target country for those targeted – so far targeted – by the countries of Germany, Austria rejects. Secondly, the tightening of asylum legislation due to so-called equality to relieve these tensions, which are on the one hand among Slovenian citizens, on the other hand to the issue of migrant issues. In Nova Slovenije, we stress that Slovenia should limit the total quota of persons to the recognition of international protection. Here we need to stress what our capabilities are; we can accept 5,000 people, we can have 10,000 people, but we don't have to have 100,000 people. Here, the National Assembly needs to unify what our options are to ensure a security aspect and an economic aspect. New Slovenia proposed, with amendments at the committee meeting, that such protection could be offered to up to 5,000 people. Taking into account the accommodation capacity of our country and the financial capacity to ensure all the rights that go to these persons, this number is entirely justified and we must not forget that persons with recognised international protection have the right to merge with their family members, which means that we must multiply this number by 4, 5 or more. And the new law even extends a series of family members who, in addition to a person with recognised international protection, are entitled to accommodation. Even countries that are economically much stronger than Slovenia are exacerbated by asylum legislation. Indeed, it is the duty of each country to take care of its own citizens in the first place; for what we give to migrants must be taken away from our citizens — hand in hand — from the heart. In doing so, I would like to remind my fellow Members from the coalition that the maximum number of migrants in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia has been called on Friday by the President of the State, Mr Borut Pahor. Is he also calling against the principles of international law, breaking the rules? We are convinced that it is only aware of all the facts of today and of all those who will follow. He does not so much conceal his eyes and treats Slovenian citizens responsibly. Furthermore, more than a week ago, our government, along with other countries along the Balkan migration route, decided that Slovenia will now accept a maximum of 580 migrants per day. Christian Democrats are very concerned about this news, the government argues this decision by the fact that only 580 migrants per day can write or register in accordance with the rules. If, at the meeting of the home committee, the representative of the Government has argued that, at the time of entry into our country, every migrant has been duly examined and recorded and, in accordance with the Dublin Regulation, international protection applicants have taken their fingerprints, then the logical question follows is how, at all the crossing points of our border, when the country has crossed thousands of migrants, we have carried out registrations and censuses of all in accordance with the Schengen rules. Therefore, we also argue in New Slovenia that the possibility of asylum applications from the European Union countries must be limited, which the coalition also distributes. So Austria returns to us on one side of the migrant, and on the other hand these migrants apply for asylum status in Slovenia. This must be limited because Slovenia is becoming an increasingly targeted country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u34	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We are in turbulent times of transition, namely transitions in several areas: political, economic, security and migration. The migration transition has been very important in recent times, and we have not been used to it, although some analysts have warned of the tsunamis along the Balkan route that will flood us. If we look historically at asylum legislation, we can see that it was very well arranged for that small number of asylum seekers. Given that this number has increased, European countries have started to compete among themselves, which will make asylum legislation more difficult so as not to be attractive. These are so-called pull factors that attract in a country. Thus, limiting this legislation so that they will no longer be attractive to migrants. Of course, this is followed by all governments in the European Union and elsewhere. It is interesting to me that the President of the Government asks the National Assembly to harmonise the proposed legislation with all the conventions and with the principles of the rule of law, but if the Ministry of the Interior has proposed this legislation, it is said that it is already in line with all these principles. It is, of course, a relative ad hoc coordination, because time has passed us again. I expect coherence in both the international and the internal spheres with other legislation. I am afraid that matters are not sufficiently harmonised with other legislation; I am saying, I am afraid that when we change this law, that the Law on Foreigners and some other legislation will not be harmonised. I also do not know whether it is coordinated among the departments – the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior – and in the coalition itself, if the government has passed legislation in Parliament through the coalition. A number of questions need to be raised: what is the list of safe countries where migrants or refugees can apply for political asylum, what is the restriction on movement – it is the security of both those on the migration path and the security of citizens in each country. So we haven't defined the right dimensions of this security properly. What about the minors, the examination, the identification of the age of human rights abuses, and have we considered putting minors in custody? We have a whole bunch of people who are willing to take over these people, and they're going to solve a lot of questions in terms of dispersion. We did not precisely define accelerated procedures, we did not address the issue of trafficking in human beings. We see that the problem that we have moved to the Macedonian border is now also the one that has suggested answering how it will solve this problem at the Macedonian border, because I myself have warned that if we move the problem to the Macedonian border, there will be a problem that I do not know if the Macedonian country is capable of solving. So, what do we do now with this problem? And, of course, the biggest problem – consensus with local self-government, because we did not communicate and did not take into account local self-government proposals. We see that the Legislative and Legal Service has made quite a few comments on the proposed legislation, and we also have a number of amendments. I hope that the final solution will be harmonised, and I expect the Legal and Legislative Service, in view of the many amendments, to once again give its opinion on whether the law is appropriate to be considered and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Radič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We are all aware that Slovenia and all Europe are facing a major humanitarian and security challenge. The Slovenian Government advocates a common European response to Member States' cooperation in managing migration flows. We do not have comprehensive solutions at the level of the European Union today, so Slovenia is actively cooperating with proposals for solutions at the level of the political institutions of the European Union at the initiative of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar. The only initiative adopted and supported to address the migration crisis in European institutions, which has also begun to take place, is to adopt additional border controls at the Greek-Macedonian border to limit irregular migration flows. On the other hand, Slovenia is forced within the framework of constitutional and legal restrictions to plan and implement all necessary measures to manage the migration challenge within the country, and it is doing so successfully. This is confirmed by the fact that Slovenia has passed around half a million people in recent months without disturbances and threats to the safety of citizens. The fact that this is a humanitarian and security issue is also important when it comes to migration. The Member States of the European Union are committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system and to sharing the burden and solidarity between Member States in the reception of refugees. The key purpose of the Common European Asylum Policy is to create an area of freedom, security and justice open to all those who are forced by circumstances to legitimately seek protection. Slovenia, with a proposal for a new Law on International Protection, systematically regulates asylum policy, coordinates it with three European directives: on common procedures for the recognition or withdrawal of international protection, on standards for the admission of applicants for international protection and on standards for conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons. In doing so, it protects human rights, in accordance with the Geneva Convention adopted, as the basis of international humanitarian law and constitutes a step towards common European asylum legislation. We have already been alerted by Brussels to the delay in harmonising asylum legislation with the European Union. In the current complex situation in which Slovenia is located, we are facing two completely opposite approaches to solving the migration problem. We have representatives of political parties spreading fear and xenophobia and, on the other hand, the tendency of others to increase standards disproportionately for persons with international protection. The government of Dr. Mira Cerar is the one that is relatively controlling the migration issue and responding to the accelerated actions of neighbouring and target countries. In Slovenia currently, the government estimates, there is no need to tighten asylum legislation, as legislation is in force according to the minimum standards laid down in the Council Directive on minimum standards. The Government shall take proportionate measures in the light of the situation and in the light of the actions taken by neighbouring countries. Today's amendments to the JHA are one of these justified measures. Providing protection to refugees means respect for international humanitarian law and human rights and a humanitarian and solidarity attitude towards civilians who have been in armed conflicts or are persecuted in their country of origin, which is one of SMC's main demands. The proposal for a law retains the existing regulation of established procedures for international protection and strengthens standards for vulnerable categories and unaccompanied minors in accordance with the revised legislation of the European Union. The new law provides a basic procedural guarantee, such as monitoring the procedure in the language understood by the applicants, is provided by the fundamental guardian of legal protection. They are entitled to free legal aid in proceedings under this law. It defines vulnerable persons with special needs to adapt to material conditions of reception, medical and psychological counselling and care. The draft law lays down, inter alia, shorter deadlines for decision-making on accelerated procedures, in which case the Authority will have to decide within two months. Border procedures shall also be updated in the event of the arrival of a large number of third-country nationals or stateless persons applying for international protection at the border or in transit areas, procedures may also be carried out when these persons are located near the border or transit zone. Following this proposal, the law provides that the Authority must decide on the application within 14 days and that the whole procedure should be completed within one month in the event of the application of legal remedies. More on the solutions to the bill will be put forward in the context of the debate on the amendments. The Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 29 February 2016. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please apply. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! As I said in the introduction in the presentation of the positions, the Government wants to adopt some solutions with this law to help prevent refugees from applying in Slovenia. This is a law which will allow for group rejection of applicants and on the basis of which the state will limit the number of applications submitted and the resulting protections granted. With the blinding of the proposals of the political right, both the Government and the coalition are obviously reviving respect for human rights, respect for the requirements of international law and so on, and I think that this proposal for a new Law on International Protection is clear evidence of this. Since the beginning of the so-called refugee crisis, members of the European Union have benefited from some practices aimed at violating international humanitarian and asylum law. And Slovenia, by means of the International Protection Act, will, in fact, be the only country to legitimize these violations. The proposal contains a number of provisions which are in direct conflict with international, European law and also constitute obvious human rights violations. There are no valid laws for the adoption of this law. I will repeat those figures from the point of view, this law does not speak of those 422 thousand and several persons who crossed Slovenia between October and January. This law limits or refers to 158 of these 400 and so many thousands. To these 158 people, this law gives some small rights, something minimal, at a time when they wait for the authorities to decide on their request. In short, it's not about any long-term consequences. Of these 158, 64 have already been rejected, leaving us the 89 and only 5 who have so far been granted refugee status. This is what we are talking about right now 84 people who fall into the provisions of this law. Slovenia has granted international protection to 390 people over the last 20 years. In the range of 20 years 390 people! This trend, or statistics, has not increased dramatically recently or has not increased dramatically to justify any tightening or restrictive measures. However, the government has decided that our legislation, which has already been extremely restrictive in any way, has been one of the sharpest in the European Union, in short, which has actually ensured the minimum laid down in the directives, the government has therefore decided to tighten this legislation. In short, we're going from minimal to negative. This is also the case here, in fact, for the carriage of all the requirements imposed by international law. This proposal brings many solutions, which are controversial, not only controversial from an ethical or moral point of view, but also unconstitutional. They are also contrary to international law, contrary to asylum and humanitarian principles. It was found before the European Court of Human Rights, and certain decisions deriving from this law were also found before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In short, in practice, we introduce into legislative practice solutions that have already been recognised as violations of the rule of law at the international and also in the Constitutional Court. In the United Left, we have proposed a series of amendments that try to achieve this minimum in some way again, what the existing ZMZ determines. In short, it is not a broad-based or broad-minded intervention, but only in some way to maintain these minimum standards and respect for human rights; and last but not least, most likely the most important and today we will focus on this issue, especially international and our constitutional law. If our amendments are not adopted, the coalition will fully, or willfully, support these unconstitutional solutions, which constitute violations of fundamental human rights, violations of international law, asylum, humanitarian and so on. In short, it is not a solution that may be controversial; it is not a solution that may be a stumbling block; it is a solution that is doubtless contrary to the acts that I have already stated. Finally, these solutions run counter to the directive itself, which is being implemented by this law. In short, this directive speaks at several points about the solutions brought by this ZMZ, but in a completely opposite direction. He's talking about how certain things should be arranged, but in a way that, of course, we don't see in this BPA. In short, the proposals put forward by the Government by this law under the pretext of implementing the directive are contrary to the directive itself, which it is trying to implement, which is already sufficiently absurd. The government has proposed these controversial solutions and, of course, everyone who accepts these proposals will bear responsibility, both for the coalition and for the rest of the National Assembly. If I move on to Article 16 or the amendment we have drawn up in the United Left, we are removing it first in a series of these violations, namely that it is clear in the proposal for a law that officials who act or treat children without the assistance of adults should be made aware that these persons are additionally qualified to work with minors. In short, it's a particularly vulnerable group. Children who travel without parents or without caregivers, without family and all the Calvary they have put through this journey deserve, of course, and this also comes from the directive itself, to be dealt with by persons who are adequately qualified for it. In short, it is once again a minimum, which is also laid down not least by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, that in such cases, when minors are accompanied by adults, they are treated appropriately. This amendment only proposes that we respect international law, respect European law, respect fundamental conventions such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and ensure some minimum respect, especially for those critical and vulnerable groups such as children without the presence of adults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Doesn't anybody want to talk about it anymore? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. When I look at the proposal of this law, I have a feeling that the right person or the right half of this national assembly is absolutely opposed to him because he is too restrictive because he gives too much rights to all migrants or refugees, in some way the left side of this national assembly, the left provoniene, and in his views he has a clear note that the rights are too small for them to be greater, so that they should be even more kind, if I say so, to all refugees. Of course, the truth is always somewhere in the middle, it's never too human, it's never too much to worry about helping the needy, but it is. I think that in the days, weeks and months when we talk about the so-called migrant crisis, we forget that the three basic apostles of each sovereign state are the following. The first is this, is sovereign at its borders, at its national borders and ensures the security and sovereignty of the state. Secondly, security and all humanitarian care must be ensured, all humanitarian aid to those people who flee their hearths, their homes, wars, violence, death, death. Thirdly, what is very important is the need to ensure security and all rights for its citizens, so that, at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, there are no restrictions on the title of this migrant crisis, as it has already been, I have also been able to detect in the media that something is taking them. Nothing can and cannot be taken by them, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia must be allowed all the rights that all citizens have, and they must not be harmed with anything. The basic point when we talk about this issue is, of course, that we must not fear at all, we must not sow panic, fear, hatred, or anything else. On this occasion, I would suggest that we squander our species. Someone said that we had folded species — and, of course, it was true, I nod, and I attach it to it — in 1991 and we were the strongest. We'd beat everyone and everyone. We squandered our species, almost entirely, in 1941, and we were the strongest, the strongest. We'd beat everyone. Let us also agree in 2016 in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the interest of humanitarianism, and this is the only way that we will all succeed together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. In view of the situation in question, I should reiterate that the Government responds to migration flows in our country in a timely manner, given the situation. What is our policy and policy of our government – to provide absolute assistance to those who need international assistance, and also to provide them with all the legal guarantees and all the guarantees we have adopted under international law and at the same time in these changed security conditions, to ensure security for both our citizens and migrants and to treat other countries properly. What has been said in one position and that, in fact, it takes care of migrants and asylum-seekers, but not to worry about our citizens, seems to me like pure manipulation. In fact, this should not be compared. These are two completely different duties of our country and the country and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are taking care of our citizens through other mechanisms. Whether we want to know or not, whether we want to admit it or not, economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia has increased, wages have also risen, employment is guaranteed, which has also increased, and these are the mechanisms under which we care for our citizens and we do not deny them anything because of migration flows. We must be aware that we are part of the European Union, that we have accepted international law and that we must respect this international law and accept all that is good, and also what is our duty, not just our rights. It was said in the position of the United Left that the system of international protection is falling apart and that Slovenia is the one who violates international law to radically downgrade rights without telling which. Quite generally, quite directly. We're not downgrading rights in anything. On the contrary. The transposition of directives introduces new legal guarantees that represent greater rights for all asylum seekers as well as for vulnerable groups. We have a special chapter for vulnerable groups and it is very clear what all these persons are provided with. And I will also make it clear below. Also with regard to accelerated procedures. This is not something that Slovenia invented. This is part of international law and is also defined and clearly stated. Therefore, I believe that these explanations of how we lower standards are only something flat-rate. Also, the number of deposits has not increased. It's true, if we look at history, we had about a thousand applications years ago. In recent years, this has declined to an average of 300. But if we look at it now, in the last month, this number of deposits has risen to a total of 414. And that doesn't mean we think it's too much, but we're just talking about real data. It is also said that the United Left is the one that will ensure the minimum human rights. Well, that sounds like a lot of cynicism or a little bit of swindling. One political option has also been said to advocate the tightening of legislation. What are we going to do to save the migration flow if we tighten the legislation? Let's see, the other countries have sharpened, they've sharpened dramatically. Did they solve the problem? Is it true that by sharpening asylum law, everything that is, in fact, a matter of an international agreement, how to resolve this situation? About the family members. Of course, this was the decision of the Constitutional Court, which extended the concept of the primary family that our father, mother and children had extended. And we agreed almost in the National Assembly last year to support this and to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. Today, therefore, the decision of the Constitutional Court would be denied. However, it is stipulated in the law that "may" means that in a particular case it is necessary to determine whether someone is entitled to family reunification. So that doesn't mean automatic. It is true, however, that these relationships are more difficult to identify in these countries. About the quota. What's that number? Can we even determine it? How many people would we give this to, and how many people would then say, "I'm sorry, but you can't come to us, and we won't give you water and bread." It is also said through everything that we have to take away our citizens if we are to give to migrants. That's absolutely not true. Most of the funds have been recovered and received from European funds. This needs to be made clear. We're talking about a migration transition. I don't think I see the transitions for the migration flow itself, or I can't connect it with it. It has also been said about the very law on international protection, that we act reactively, that we have not in fact aligned ourselves in the process, that we are not in line with the coalition. If we know the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we know exactly how the law is coordinated. That is to say, if the Legislative and Legal Service has made comments on the Committee, let us harmonise this and also coordinate the interdepartmental and the coalition is coordinating in this regard. There's speculation in the media about what's been going on, but it's a matter of the media and those who report it to you. You will see how coordinated we are when we vote. And I assure you, we are in line. Then there was a speech that there was no definition of what safe countries were. If we look at the law, the four concepts of a secure state clearly define what a secure state is. It was said that it was not clearly defined where the applications were submitted. This is also stated in the law. If you read it, it is clearly indicated where the application is filed, so I don't understand Members either, and I wonder if they've even read the law. A review of minors. It is clearly defined how the examination is carried out. It must be stated that there is always a legal representative in the case of minors in accordance with the Chapter governing minors. If there is a conflict of interest, there must also be a guardian. The expert shall be the one who conducts the examination and prepares the expert opinion. This is also clearly defined. It was also said that there were no guardians. The guardians are defined in the law. All you have to do is read the law. The accelerated procedures are not defined. They're defined. All you have to do is read the law again, that's all. Trafficking in human beings — this is not the subject of this law. We have not communicated with local communities and we do not respect their interests. The government is on the ground all the time and communicating. We've told you a number of times how many times the government's been in the field. But the fact is, he can't take it all into account. We take into account what we can take into account. He's trying to reach the maximum consensus, but not everything. According to the latest events that have taken place, when even the Ministry had the chance to tell its vision, it was said, "we don't want this." So it's not that you simply don't listen to what needs are, but it's about automatic rejection. Rejection of everything that means the state's activity in this area. And here's not a problem. It's a government problem, but it's more of a problem for people who look at it like that. Also with regard to the amendment of the United Left to Article 16, let me just say, it is specified here that special training should be provided for officials. Article 8 of the Law on International Protection specifically defines the training of staff members of the competent authority and, in particular, the indent concerning the specific treatment of minors, the provision of assistance in their effective exercise of rights under this Act. And we have a whole chapter talking about these minors. I do not understand this amendment or feel it is contrary to article 8 of the Law on International Protection. I will continue to respond to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My predecessor has stated that we are committed to international and European law. I'm sorry, but this law violates international and European law. I have pointed to this in my position, also to say that I will go more clearly into the details of individual amendments, which, of course, try to ensure some really minimum. And that's not demagogy at all. Last but not least, we have tabled 30 amendments to this law on the working body, which have brought the situation into line with the provisions you know in the current ZMZ. You're saying we don't specify exactly where these violations are taking place. The introduction of border procedures is not clearly defined anywhere. The law introduces them. In a way, these are accelerated procedures. The Directive clearly points out that these procedures can only be used in exceptional cases, and we are now also putting them on borders. If you combine this with the arbitrariness of the decision of the official authority on who is to be accepted and the other procedures introduced by this law, you have a very simple equation. Border procedures allow for mass rejection of applicants. The suspension allows these applicants not to be able to complain at all because they will have to leave the country within 7 days, and 8 days is the legal time limit for filing a complaint or a complaint. The clear consequence is that someone who is not present in the territory where his application is addressed cannot exercise effective legal protection. Another point of dispute, the refusal of an application if an applicant comes to Slovenia from another country, EU Member States which are clearly contrary to the Dublin Regulation, which is a European legal act. And that, I think, is also a clear violation. Elimination of suspension, appeal to the Supreme Court. These are mechanisms that are against the constitution that are against the directive that we are implementing, which clearly states that it must be an appropriate legal guardian in these cases. And we know that in most cases, the Supreme Court has settled complaints. If it's not a violation, then I don't know what it is. You also put an anti-constitutional restriction on the movement, which is clearly contrary to the Constitution and which in some way introduces detention for asylum seekers. You're shutting down one-off cash assistance for applicants, you're saying they can't get through that first month of living in the country somehow. You are withdrawing the compensation for private accommodation for persons with subsidiary protection. Provisions are deleted that an official must ensure that asylum seekers are given the best possible exercise of their rights by consulting with brochures and so on. In short, there's a whole bunch of these violations. I will continue to present them with amendments that touch precisely these violations and, finally, the NGOs for a long time since you brought this law to light where all these violations are taking place. I don't think that's something we can just wave our hand and say it's a United Left whimper. This is actually a situation, and this is something that lastly threatens Slovenia to get a similar case as it has been deleted, at European level.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and her team and everyone else! This is clearly again this grateful topic for both the parties and the media. Clearly, both on the left and on the right side of our political field have different views and perspectives on this. Given that we are somewhere in the middle, in this center, we are both on the left and on the right hand side of various criticisms. But here we have to say again and repeat the fact that Slovenia has not triggered this crisis, that Slovenia has actually received this crisis and must deal with it. Speaking of Europe, which should be highlighted in particular, it is simply a slow and non-operational response. Now, if I go back to government action, they are seen as gradual, moderate, and they are exacerbated by the dynamics that are coming to us or that are changing daily. Which is logical, I'll say, given our resources, the limited resources we have. It is clear that this process, which is dynamic, must be optimized in some way, and it is clearly necessary to follow some of the escape routes. If we are talking about the very substantive solutions of this law, it is clear that we will not come together in any way, but at least a few elements that are important on the one hand are also forgotten on the other hand. Thus, procedures for the identification of persons are in place, procedures for the reduction of procedures are in place, and new border procedures are in place, which is important. As regards the fundamental principles and guarantees defined in Articles 3 to 19, it is also clearly stated that any application for international protection shall be treated individually, which is important. It means both for the acquisition and for the cessation and seizure. It is also stated in this part that all procedures for international protection should be given to the applicant in a language which he understands. The person requesting this international protection shall have the information provided on the procedure for international protection. So that's what it is. The fundamental procedural guarantee for the applicant is also the right to adopt this procedure. Thus, the assistance of the interpreter shall be provided for the applicant in the reception of the request, the personal interview and in other justified cases provided by the competent authority. It's done, too. Let us not forget that UNHCR has a supervisory role to play in this too, it is said that it is possible for the competent authority to obtain information on the state of refugees in the country. This is also under the Geneva Convention. As far as the Directives are concerned, Directives are here to ensure that a unaccompanied minor is not interviewed personally in relation to the determination of his application, and that basic procedural guarantees are provided throughout the procedure, in accordance with Council of Europe Directive 2013/32-EU. This is the fundamental guardian of this legal protection. Minors without a escort, because they are vulnerable groups, are subject to additional safeguards. If we go to Articles 20 to 31 – Recognition of international protection. Here is the identification of conditions for international protection as a key element of the procedure for obtaining international protection, which is clear. And here is an important definition of "refugee" and "subsidiary protection", which is also mentioned. If I keep going. Then we have a procedure for international protection from Articles 32 to 69, which is also laid down by the Council of Europe Directive. For the applicant, all the writings are personally served, which is also one reason for some guarantee. The official may also sign up a number of personal conversations with these applicants. Regardless of how we talk about limiting all these things, we are still in some way in line with these international standards that they hold. Next, which is also explicitly stated that the greatest advantage of this single procedure is to accelerate the speed and effectiveness of procedures for the recognition of international protection. It's done, too. It is said that this single asylum procedure is also more credible. As far as the deadlines for decisions are concerned, there are several options here, but within two months at the latest the authority must decide on the application submitted. If the competent authority cannot decide on the application within six months, it shall inform the applicant in writing of the delay. Here are some of these elements that protect all these matters, regardless of the fact that, in fact, in other respects, restricting and sharpening these measures was necessary because the dynamics themselves, which was given, forced the Slovenian government to respond to these migratory flows. The other thing I wanted to say is that the public – but we can legitimately ask ourselves whether this public is really the majority – somehow requires this exacerbation. Let us leave aside whether this is in some way being burned by different stakeholders. But we can also wonder if that's right, human, human. I don't know. It is, however, the fact that both the media and the public as well as the people, in the indications, as the parties, even more right-wing by the province, require these sharp restrictive measures. As for the SMC, we are committed to a decisive, pragmatic action, I will say, in some human but also optimized way. Why am I saying this? Because we need to be aware that no law, and also this one, will deter these refugees, will not deter this fear, which now, like an inflatable balloon, is orbiting Slovenia. And by law as such, we have only some legal arguments. And if we follow European regulations, we must also be aware and also aspire to renew both the Dublin Treaty and the Schengen rules or code, because they have not actually been laid down for this time, I will say, this massive exodus that we now have. We must admit, on our own, that European legislation has not been prepared for this mass challenge. And the time component itself, given the dynamics of arrival, is speeding up the functioning of the EU. And these are the facts. These are facts that are very important, so one of these laws, such as international protection, is important, that we are somehow trying to limit this influx in a rational way by refugees, migrants, as you wish, somehow limit all these requirements, but still to be in line with the basic Geneva Conventions, the basic international laws and to show that Slovenia and the human and humanitarian state are, but above all, pragmatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Please sign up. The word has Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. We Slovenians have proved many times that we have a feeling and a sense of a fellow man who is in distress. Last but not least, we proved this at a time when the war in the Balkans was raging when we adopted a large number of refugees, and this was largely not a problem. Last but not least, we collect a large amount of money for people who are in distress, and we also help in third countries. In this amendment, which discusses minors, in Novi Slovenija we are committed to protecting unaccompanied minors 100%. In this way we also express our feelings, our feelings, our compassion for children, our juveniles, nothing to blame for in this difficult situation, whether they are migrants or refugees. However, I do not agree with the fact that any citizen who has expressed some concern about this time is already referred to as a homophobic, for someone who makes an hate speech, even in demonstrations should not participate and express his opinion. I can't agree with that. And even in the case of a student home in Kranj, when some teachers expressed doubts, they were immediately branded as homophobic and some would have lynched them and so on without really knowing what they were saying. I think that it is necessary to take into account, listen also to our citizens who express their doubts and concerns and, above all, they need to be properly informed and prepared for something. In this case, at home, I wonder if the parents, the students, were adequately prepared. If my child were in this home, I'd wonder what medical condition these adolescents were in, whether they were examined. We know that this mass of people can also bring different diseases from all over the world, and I would be worried about it first and secondly, how to prepare students who are in this very home to accept these new arrivals into their environment. So this preparation of people, this conversation with people is extremely important. I think it is at this very point that our dialogue is limping, because we know little about this, about the next steps, so we are also skeptical. That's why people are afraid, they're afraid because they hear different stories from other parts of Europe, what happens there when they've been very generous and they've accepted this number of people between them. I would point out, however, that Slovenia is not obliged to accept any migrants. That those who come from war zones who need our protection are not obliged to accept migrants. Because even Slovenia will not solve the global problem that has emerged from this migration crisis. See, other larger countries, for example, Australia, which has protected its borders. They decide which migrants they will accept. Did America open its doors wide? It's not. They said what number, a very small number, they would accept. Is Slovenia obliged to accept all the people who want to come to our country? She doesn't have to. In Nova Slovenija, however, we expect to agree on what is the highest number of refugees in Slovenia that we can accept and provide properly if they apply for asylum. But if we choose to do so, it is only right that we do our utmost to see to it that these people are accepted as humans and taken care of them. But not to the extent that it endangers our people. How much a fugitive costs, we don't even know because there are different numbers, but nothing is free. Nothing's free. Even the people who work with them, the material, it's all worth something. Nor is it true that Europe has paid for all this money. That's what we're gonna give, and we're gonna take care of it. So there's a question of how much we owe them. Above all, we do not agree that families can come after some people almost all of you, as in the current formulation. We're missing a conversation. We should know what the next steps of the government are, what are these joint decisions that we are prepared to make, then our people would also be more calm and believe that our government knows what it really wants and what the next steps are.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Throughout all these debates, we can, I think, all the Members in this National Assembly are the only ones, that this is a very difficult subject. For a topic in which to find the right balanced path. From proposals coming from one side and going in one direction, and then proposals coming from the other side in the opposite direction, it is necessary to somehow draw things out and gather what finds some balance between the so-called security issue and, on the other, the humanitarian issue. If I make a little haste with the obvious that Slovenia is merely responding to what other countries are doing. Of course, it responds, and other countries respond to what is happening daily, how the situation is changing daily. No country is a lonely island in this world, but all countries are in a community and are all from the first to the last forced to respond to what is happening to this migratory wave every day, to the way the situation is changing. For once, Slovenia has responded adequately, very well, has also acted proactively, even dictated certain measures itself, has proposed certain things to the European Union to react to. At this point, it is one of the more proactive members of the European Union. If, for a moment, I had to rush to see how the costs of the migrant crisis affect whether Slovenia will also take care of its citizens. Let me remind you that Slovenia spends 1.5 billion of its 9 billion budget for social transfers. This government increased this amount this year. I cannot agree with the fact that, if we are now going to be humanitarian and take care of these people, who, I think we agree here, still need our help so that our citizens will be deprived of it in any way. That's not true. I have to very firmly reject these kinds of findings. Also, the claims that we do not know how much such a fugitive or applicant costs us for international protection are not true. The President of the government served yesterday with very precise information. Let me do it again. The costs incurred by Slovenia from September 2015 to the end of December 2015 amounted to €22.5 million. In 2016 – until 15 February, 9.8 million. Here are the cost of employment, reception, accommodation, equipment for volunteers, etc. We're talking about a total of 32 million. If we look the other way. The European Union has granted 10.2 million extraordinary funds and allocated them to Slovenia for these purposes. The Development Bank of the Council of Europe has made a donation of 1.5 million to Slovenia. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees donated 3.6 million. There are also individual donors based on bilateral agreements. Slovenia is working very hard to obtain certain funds for these purposes, and the costs are not only the costs of Slovenia. Yesterday, too, it was clear that one asylum seeker costs EUR 385,80 a month, which means that the care day in the asylum home is EUR 12.26 and 18, I repeat, EUR 18 a month's allowance. It's your turn, Mrs. Godec, and you can tell me how much your child gets per month. If we stay at these costs for a moment. I would like to point out that it will be clear here as well. Asylum seekers who have their own means of subsistence shall bear the costs themselves, either in full or in proportion to the costs of material supply, and this shall be laid down in the law at this time. More detailed cost recovery procedures are laid down in the rules on the rights of applicants with international protection. But this is about basic supply costs. Those who have their own resources are being deposited and these funds are being paid for, that is to say, today. If I hurry for a moment to join the family. Of course, family reunification is not the subject of the International Protection Act, but is already fundamentally defined in the Foreign Act. Far from being able to say that there will be mass family reunions. The Aliens Act specifically states that individual treatment is necessary in connection with family reunification, i.e. not in general, and that circumstances and entitlement to family reunification are assessed in each individual case. As far as this number 5,000 is concerned, we're just turning around and turning around and somehow we can't get past it. Austria was cited as an example. Austria has highlighted a certain number that could amount to some quota, but I would point out that this is the subject of some agreement at national level between countries. This is not the number that Austria wrote in the marriage. Let me point out that the establishment of a quota in the law would be contrary to international law, contrary to the right to an international protection procedure. There is no way to think about simply setting a number and entering it into the marriage. On the other hand, as I said at the outset, the situation is changing, and it is the Government that has accurate data on how many people we can provide, what the current situation is. Here it goes in perfect confidence to the Government that it will be able to judge what the figure is, which somehow means the number of people who on the one hand will not pose any security risk to the two millionths of Slovenia, and on the other hand will also be able to receive some appropriate human care from our side. Procedures at the border have also been mentioned and procedures at the border will now be largely rejected. I think this has already been said by the State Secretary on the Committee that this fear is that, in border procedures, a mass automatic rejection of certain requests is completely overstated. In spite of the border procedures, all applicants for international protection, i.e. without exception, must be provided with all basic legal remedies, including all information, access to information, assistance and so on. In addition, for the purpose of classifying an application or issuing a decision in a border procedure, the reasons laid down in the law must also be fulfilled. The aim of the introduction of border procedures is exclusively to ensure that those who apparently do not need protection are treated as quickly as possible. And here's the fear that this would lead to abuse, totally overkill. As for the current situation in Slovenia, protests, rejection of unaccompanied minors and so on. I have to make it very clear here that the excuse for non-information is no excuse for treating teachers in relation to these unaccompanied minors. No misinformation is in any way and never an excuse for xenophobia, intolerance and so on. I think we need to be very sharp and very clear here. Educators are those who, according to their education, must be able to inform themselves and also, in the first place, to set an example for their pupils, students and other citizens. Here to talk about not being informed enough, I'm sorry, this is where things end for me. For the protests like this. These protests, it is now evident that they are not merely a consequence of concern, non-information and fear, but it is very clear, as is clear today through this debate, that the refugee event is being used for a means of manipulating, spreading hatred and fear. Unfortunately, this fear doesn't just spread to refugees. It also extends to those who have compassion for refugees who help them, who sacrifice their free time to engage and somehow help the country to provide these people, whom we have already said are in need of assistance. The objective of all this is, of course, very clear. To create the impression that in Slovenia there is chaos, which of course is not, to destabilize the country and finally to clearly take over power. But I wonder at this point, and at this point, what is the real threat to this country, whether it's refugees or it's the xenophobia that's spreading? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. What I just listened to, I'm answering the following. The honourable Member, there is no excuse, and it is even less justifiable that you come from the largest coalition party and force the law to force citizens and citizens to accept something that, for the first time, they do not have to accept in accordance with the law and the constitution. On the other hand, I must remind you that in the Republic of Slovenia the people have power. And if the people say no, then imagine yourself. As far as why people react like that. I think ugly and inappropriate views are completely out of line. In 1994, thousands of refugees arrived in Slovenia. People knew it was refugees back then. That's when they helped. Everybody. There were no worse differences. In fact, the state didn't even know this was happening. Even more. Even those who were then against our independence returned. And anyway, refugees came from areas where they knew what was going on. Today, in the debate of individuals, I hear again some mixing of apples and pears between migrants and refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, one is refugees, and one is migrants. And over Slovenia, almost half a million people traveled illegally without actually knowing what they were. Let me serve you only with information that the Netherlands has now been found among your so-called migrants, and I say that they are refugees, 30 persons suspected of crimes. Today, I read by an Austrian police representative that Austria will return to Slovenia those individuals who are at security risk are causing a security risk – how did they get across our border? – if they have infectious diseases and otherwise present a problem such as false identity and so on. Are they refugees? They're not. Let me tell you another one. In the Netherlands, among these suspects were Nigerians, Georgia. Are these the areas where war strikes? Of course not. And when you talk so much about families and this right, how you have to enable your family to unite. Of course, but I'm asking you if there are refugees, how is it that middle men travel alone and forget their family at home? They don't think it's necessary for you to take care of your family and make sure that the mother and the children get on that boat first, and you stay and maybe even help in your own environment so that one day these kids and your wife can go back to where they lived? Of course, this is not going to happen or this is not going to happen when we're talking about migrants. But this is not the duty of our country. And I don't agree with a colleague from SMC who says we can't set some quotas to help people. We have to. The Slovenian boat is just like it is. Resistive as much as he is, powerful as he is, and capable of enduring as much as he can. What's more than that is a flood for all of us. And here's the problem for citizens and citizens. Of course it is. How can you say that we do not endanger their security and their future? Of course I do. You say that there are not many of these people we have in Slovenia today. Of course they're not, because we all know we weren't the target country. What if these bitter migrants, because they are not refugees, are returning and threatening because they cannot remain in the land they desire? For a few days, we're faced with getting them back, and we've already had a serious incident, a body under the influence of alcohol. Oh, come on! Since when do we have to give the refugees the money because we have to give them the allowance? Yeah, I'm talking to a fugitive. In the nicknames of the fugitives. We know exactly who we're talking about. We are talking about migrants who have thousands and thousands of euros in their possession, while our citizens, as I have already said, are living on the brink of poverty. And then we hear that we give them too little, that these proposals, which are today as some kind of proposal for a law that they should be given even more. So they need to be offered more than their own citizens. Then you are surprised that people show dissatisfaction in the streets. Yeah, where are they gonna show it? They have elected their representatives to the National Assembly, and if they are disappointed, they will show it in the streets. Yeah, that's how it is. It's their right. Some take it as a duty. I have heard earlier about the fact that when we want to tighten asylum legislation with amendments, we want to violate human rights. Oh, come on. This is what we hear from those standing with the red star under which 280 million victims were killed. And there was no human rights. Nor do we hear much about human rights from those of our citizens, those who had to leave Slovenia before fear, suffering, threats and violence. We rarely hear about their human rights. We are not even able to adopt resolutions. As far as minors are concerned, absolutely. I'm also in favour of helping children and families who are actually in trouble. But when we wanted the amendment to somehow cut in to see whether it was minors or not, it was also rejected. This agrees that what is happening in some other countries will happen to us. When they talk about the violence of minors, they cause the fear of the citizens, if you see, they are already violent, and then only after a thorough examination will it be found that they are already adults. That's what our citizens know. And then I'll call back when another amendment is open, but what is the weakness of this marriage. Firstly, it is not sufficiently acute in those areas that have now proved to be a problem in other countries. When it comes to examining the origin of the country, when it comes to examining individuals, we are too weak here. That is why we have also proposed that in the so-called initial procedure, a person who knows the language well, because this is the only way in which he can actually help to determine whether the origin is genuine. Second, we talk a lot about rights — what about duties? Very little. Our citizens have a lot of responsibilities, and most of all those who get hit by a wallet, paying taxes. Their duty will be only to attend some course, 80%, but it will not matter what they take away from it. When we talk about family reunification, we, too, have proposed that family reunion take place, but after a certain period of time, after seeing what is happening to this individual. The Law on International Protection is not a law on getting new citizens and getting them involved in our society, but it is mainly about helping those who need help. And once there are conditions for them to return to their homes, they come back to you. Therefore, it is also our duty to help with our best efforts to establish points near their homes where they can return as soon as possible. This is also our duty. Let me remind you of something. Look what happened on the so-called Macedonian border in just one day. They're tearing down the fences. Of course, we haven't been faced with violence that much before. How's that? We waited for the migrants in Dobova, we had a nice trip on a respectable train, we took them to the other side of the country, and then they left the country. And what we don't hear all the time and the police have been faced with it, if the matter hasn't gone fast enough, they've become restless and expected an even faster procedure. I hope that we are ready for what will happen now that you come from the so-called Macedonian-Balkan route and when they return from Austria to Slovenia. And what we read today is that it is individuals with infectious diseases, with threats to safety, yes, not to be surprised that people are scared! That's not my statement. That's a statement from the Austrian police. I'll call back later. There's something else. The calculations were said earlier, I think the fellow Servant said, "They're clear." Let's make a deal at home! In just a few days – I personally received the reply of the Minister of Home Affairs, one calculation. Yesterday, Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government, who was supposed to have very accurate data, if he wanted to say them, said another calculation. Later, the finance minister filed a third report. And I know why these calculations are different. Because no one wants to tell you the full cost. It's nice to talk about costing one migrant, say, 20 euros a day or whatever, 17, 18. How long do you think he'll be left with a pension of 400 euros a day? How much can he spend a day? No, it's not over, it's sad. It's sad that he doesn't survive. Because they're borrowing money because, thank God, they can do something for themselves and they help each other in this way. Beyond what we accept today, Sir Horvath, this is over. Despite the fact that you allowed 500 000 people to go illegally through Slovenia. And it's gone that now we're going to get back to all those who represent a problem for other Western and Northern countries. It's over. Your policy is over. But I believe there is a growing pressure on you, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Let's get this over with, shall we? Another round. If you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-workers! It's a very difficult darkness ahead of us. Not only before us, before the whole of Europe, before the entire European policy. But it's not about solving an act that's unique. This is a resolution, a process that we discussed exactly one week ago in the European Parliament at the interparliamentary meeting of foreign policy committees, AFET, where there was talk that this process would last for at least a decade. At this time interval in this future, we must also set our marriage solutions. I believe the government has prepared this law with the best of will. I also believe that Germany, which has now amended asylum legislation for the second time, has already changed Denmark, has changed it in the near future Austria, and I believe that we will also change it, because this law may be written today, which we are considering, about a year or two ago, it would then be up-to-date. But I don't know if he'll be up to date for, literally, tomorrow. And things will have to be sharpened. In this context, I would also like all of us here in this Chamber to be committed to the truth. I had previously listened to a coalition MP who said there was no financial burden on the state budget. However, a few short months ago, we adopted the state budget for this year, for the following year. And there's a clear line of 123 million. And the Minister of Finance has made it very clear that it will be necessary to borrow 50 million. Nobody or at least New Slovenia has therefore protested. Why not? Because as a member of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – I want to make it clear that concern for true refugees is also our ethical duty. Of course, within our capabilities. Our options and our capacities are limited. Janja’s colleague, who had previously discussed, gave a very good illustration of the boat. How many people do you put in a boat that's built, say, for 8 people? How much? Maybe 16. If you give 17, maybe, God forbid, they'll all sink. And there's too much of that information to make boats with humans disappear into the depths of the sea. And virtually no one shakes that the Mediterranean is becoming a great tomb. Even before they arrive in the promised land, many, yes, even children, experience tragically ending their lives. Of course, we need to show understanding for people’s concerns. We're here for the people. We've been sent here by people, and we need to have understanding for people's concerns. And we need to have answers to the questions about who will finance the social state. I'm glad we have such a constitution that we have Article 2. But we must always ask ourselves who will finance the social state. To say that we are very good at having economic growth, yes, Minister Marble says, this economic growth is very fragile. And I'm here to tell him about his claim. This economic growth is very fragile. But there is little to think about who can knock on our chests, that we have economic growth. Or tax receipts? Did the tax collectors contribute to this? We have to be honest and we have to cut hands for economic operators, managers, owners of family and other businesses who are trying to have economic growth. Tell me, what action has this government taken to contribute to economic growth? So much for that. I'll talk to you about it some other time. At the same time, politics must also lead. It must show a vision and say in a good way that the priorities of the rejected refugees are not ethically appropriate. New Slovenia does not reject the priorities of refugees, does not reject them. I need to be very clear here. And if I have to, I'll do it a few more times today. To understand ourselves, I repeat, we reject headless multiculturalism when it means rejecting our own, Slovenian values and customs and accepting foreign patterns uncritically. I reject an irrationally harmful policy that would be adopted by all migrants on average without security, without economic or social considerations. I particularly reject left-handed manipulation, which in migrants may see a new potential elective body, a new working class, sometimes called a working class with which to strengthen power in the future. I am fully aware that refugees need to be separated from economic migrants, separated as far as treatment is concerned, in order to understand each other. And that each solidarity also has its limits, its reasonable limits. I was talking about the boat earlier. Not only reasonable solidarity borders, social borders, but also borders, because refugees and migrants also pose a large security issue or security risk and pose security risks to the local population. Yesterday, I can say, the Minister and I had a good dialogue when we found that communication between the government and local communities needed to be strengthened. But that's hard today. Why? I shall return to the consideration of the budgetary documents. The government closed the doors in front of the municipalities when they knocked and warned you about compliance with and implementation of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, I am speaking because you know for yourself about the average. The government here said, no, the average for local communities remains nominal at the same level as last year, which means significantly less, with additional burdens on the new tasks and financial obligations of the local community. This is an exclusive violation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. And, colleagues and colleagues, now is the time to decide whether to preserve the civilizational heritage of the three millenniums or leave the country and continent to other civilizations. Do we care if our grandchildren have to protect their faces in half a century? Is it right for us to somehow deny all of our Slovenian traditional values, which, lastly, contributed to the fact that we received our own country 25 years ago? Yeah, who's gonna say, yeah, look at him, that's nationalism. I'll answer that. Not at all. It's simple math. And that's what this is all about. If we are to be humanitarian, if we are to be solidarity, we must also be able to count. As far as humanitarianism is concerned, we ourselves Slovenians, the state of Slovenia, see that we are very humanitarian. However, if we look at the analysis made last year by the European Council for External Relations, this is the think tank established in 2007 and led by Mr Carl Bildt, and then we find that Slovenia is a quitter in the field of humanitarianism. When I watched that, I was a little stressed out, but that's how others see us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u56	Colleagues and colleagues! It's not even a question of whether we owe it to the refugees or not. Everyone, I stress, who needs our help, knocking on our door, stressing again, naked, thirsty, hungry, boss, we must help everyone. Don't be unfair to us here, in this case, if you're looking for refugees. In doing so, it should be stressed that one basic criterion is who the refugees are and who the migrants are. Here I can commend the government for using the right terminology. You learn coalition Members from Mr Šefic because he really uses the right terminology. We have to be exact here. Why? Because we're going to get into a situation where refugees can really come to Slovenia. And because of this mix, because we've mixed everything up, even the terms, maybe we won't be able to help the real refugees anymore. Let's use the right terminology. The amount of $5,000 that we have proposed in New Slovenia. This is not contrary to international legal acts, commitments or anything else. Why not? Whoever comes to Slovenia, legally speaking, can no longer be a fugitive if he comes from Syria. Are we in a clear – legal way? Because it's going through a number of safe countries where I could apply for international protection. As a result, Austria has made such a vehement decision and has given a quota of 37 000. And no one's going to deny it to them. But it's not the key to arguing now whether this is in line with our right or not. The key is to set a limit, a reasonable limit, is one of the means to calm people, what they can expect, what our capabilities are, what their expectations can be, how much we will actually have refugees, migrants here in the Republic of Slovenia. People today don't know if there's gonna be a thousand, five thousand, one hundred thousand. We need to set this quota on the basis of our capabilities, economic capabilities as well as the ability to provide security for both migrants and our own citizens. On the basis of these two aspects, we need to set an upper quota. We can't take care of a "full boat," you said, all those who would like to live in our country, let's say in this case. We can't. Our capabilities are limited, but we also need to set the quota for people's reconciliation so they know what we're dealing with in this country. Because today, people, citizens don't know what they can expect. Word is there's no dialogue. That's what I'm stressing myself. There's no dialogue. Not that the secretary of state in this case would talk from congregation to congregation and knock on the door. There is no dialogue or communication. People don't trust government decisions. That's what I'm talking about. There's no dialogue. Why don't they trust government decisions? For all the decisions that were made were made in the end, after the words had been spoken of at home. First of all, we're not going to be like Orban, we're not going to have a fence on the southern border, etc. And then the day comes when we say that the fences are going to be technical barriers and then we put up a barbed wire, by the way. This hesitation in deciding what we're going to do, what we're not going to do, has sown fear among people. It's a hesitation. Not the conduct in this case, as you claim, of the opposition. That is why I say that it is necessary to make a decision. When we decide something, we decide. Not that we first say that Orban's policy is wrong, but then we take pictures of Orban in the middle of Ljubljana and how well we work together. Okay, but let's just be consistent that people will have some confidence in us. So we're also talking about communication outside to calm people down. Accommodation. There were children with me in Kranj. Look, I don't think there's a single person in the National Assembly who would say if I had the right information, and we're not going to house these kids in our country at all. But first of all, it's about kids, it's about teenagers, it's about 16 years old, it's about 10 years old. How old are these people? Adolescents. And I believe that if the right communication were properly presented to teachers in Kranj, these children would be settled there today, or young people, I still don't know how old they are today. But I agree, look, we can't talk about young people or people right now like potato bags and hesitate where we're going to put them. These aren't sacks of potatoes. These are people. This is not how communication can take place. Danger. Slovenia is becoming a target country. That's what migrants who apply for asylum say. We have seen through the media that those who return, which Austria rejects, ask for asylum in the Republic of Slovenia, because this is in their interest. They don't want to go to Croatia, they don't want to go forward, they don't want to go back. They want to stay in Slovenia. And this is a crucial question: where is our commitment to allow these people to apply for asylum at all? They come from the European country of Austria, from the target country, and this is a return migratory wave. In this case, the Government must act in this case in Austria to prevent migrants from being rejected. She should accept the consequences herself, Austria alone. We are not obliged to accept migrants if Austria sends them to us. We don't have to. Some blogger wrote that it should also be placed on our side of the fence on the northern border, because this return migratory wave will be able to go into thousands a day. And that's what some security authorities are pointing out. There is a problem of migrants still arriving in Slovenia, and Austria no longer wants to accept them. As a result, the right decision is to amend asylum legislation. I myself argue that, compared to other countries of the European Union, we are making asylum legislation too little worse. I support this proposal, which has already been adopted on the home committee. And you are also fighting within the ruling coalition or the SMC, at least that's how it is to be detected through the media, whether in Slovenia they can apply for asylum status of those coming from a European country, from a European Union country. If we are to follow other target countries, we need to tighten asylum legislation in order not to become a truly targeted country ourselves. When there is no more room in Austria and Germany, Slovenia will be very full. Not that we don't want migrants now, refugees, yes, of course we don't want them, do we? We want to help people who need help. However, Slovenia cannot take care of everyone who wants to stay here. Macedonia, Greece. I have a feeling that this deal is going wrong and that the border is falling there. If you're monitoring the media, you'll be able to see it. What can soon happen is that all these migrants, who are in Greece, thousands of them, are expected to go back to the Balkan route to Slovenia. And then for Slovenia, given what target countries are doing, there will be a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes is gone. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, let me answer the allegations that we are violating international law, as stated above all by the United Left. First of all, as regards the border procedure, that is not defined, let me just point out that it is regulated in accordance with Article 8 of the Directive on common procedures for recognition and withdrawal of status, number 2013/32/E. This means that our regime is in line with the directive. As far as 51st is concerned, it's also regulated by 33. Article of the same Directive, as has been said now, that we do not know what we want or that we are not united. As such, the Directive regulates four tax rulings where an application is not admissible and can be rejected in an application for international protection. The indent that we have set out is the case for safe European countries, but the argument that we introduced in the first phase is that European countries are also safe countries, and these are in particular the conclusions of the Council of the European Union at one of the meetings at which it was said that international protection is not recognised by those who have not requested it in the previous countries of the European Union. The fact is that we do not have legal practice in this regard. Indeed, the Dublin Regulation gives four tax rulings, but since we do not have legal practice with regard to this position taken by the Council of the European Union, we decide to delete this indent so that we do not have legal remedies against the country on this subject. Of course, what the United Left requires us to also delete the third indent would mean that this is contrary to a directive which specifies when a tax ruling is not allowed and the application is rejected. So your proposal is contrary to the directive. As regards the suspension in Article 70, we agree with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and will vote accordingly. However, we will act in such a way as to reintroduce the suspension of a remedy for accelerated procedures, which is in accordance with the Directive. The proposal made by the United Left to terminate in this case is contrary to international law. As regards the restriction of movement in Article 84, the actual opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was that we did not regulate certain quarters, although on the committee itself, after the amendment which was adopted, stated that we had somehow been satisfied, but that we added additional legal guarantees in this article, and we specifically explained the fourth indent of what is a danger, public order, so we have precisely determined that this does not leave an undefined legal concept. We have provided additional legal guarantees for minors, regulated the right to appeal and also regulated the possibility of administrative supervision, i.e. judicial supervision in the event of movement being restricted to a person, in order to ensure that there is no doubt as to whether the reasons are warranted. As far as the termination of the one-off cash assistance is concerned. The Refugee Convention itself speaks of refugees being treated in the same way as foreigners. So in this case, we are comparing it with the Foreigners Act and also with the legislation that applies to our citizens. As far as consulting with brochures is concerned, it is terminated, replaced by a number of possibilities and the duty of information with the presence of an interpreter, an adviser, the presence of UNHCR. We are convinced that personal contact and direct information is significantly better than providing information via brochures. As far as NSI is concerned, they are educators and also the people, that they are uninformed and that this is why they do what they do. Our proposal to the government may be to set up an information centre where even educators can call and inform themselves about the circumstances and other citizens not to say they have no information. As regards the following measures by the Government, it has been said many times, it cannot be black and white, but we are adapting to the situation, and all steps forward simply cannot be said. As far as the question is concerned, we are not obliged to accept any migrants. That's not true. Under the Aliens Act, migrants are also allowed to enter the country under certain conditions. Any foreigner may enter if he has the conditions to do so, he may be a tourist, and according to Schengen he may, exceptionally, allow access without documents for humanitarian reasons. However, when a person enters and applies for asylum, he must be treated subjectively and determined whether he meets the conditions. This time, however, has the status of applicant and we are obliged to deal with him in our area. Of course, the people have power in Slovenia, but we also need to know which borders, when the street takes power. Yesterday at Studio City, it was very well told how Slovenians behaved. We don't want people with special needs, we don't want Roma, we don't want other centers, in short, we don't want anyone around us very often. As far as rejecting criminals is concerned. Criminals, for anyone who violates the rule of law, we have an appropriate legal order and sanction. About the rejection of Austria. Yeah, we got some people back. The reasons, I suppose, will be explained by the government, which are the reasons. But in the same way, we return. Austria has returned 708 people to us so far, and we have returned 710 to Croatia. Probably for similar reasons. So I suppose the government will explain exactly what these reasons are. The question is whether or not the Georgians are refugees. Is it a safe country or is it not a safe country? It's a matter of procedure. Of course, objective circumstances suggest that Georgia is a safe country. The subjective circumstances of an individual should also be identified. The fact that someone is a young man is a young man. Doesn't mean he's a criminal. Doesn't mean anything. As far as the refugees and those with recognized status are concerned, they have no duty. Article 2 of the Convention on the Status of Refugees already makes it clear that they are obliged to respect the legal order of any State offering them protection. They are therefore obliged to respect all that is in our territory. And they are subject to the same legal order as our citizens, by no means. So we can't say they don't have a duty. As far as we're concerned, we're only giving them rights and giving them money and having a lot of assets on their hands. Article 13 of the Convention explicitly states that the property that refugees have brought with them must be protected. It's their acquired property. As far as pensioners are concerned, they can't survive with 400 euros. Yes, I agree. They can't. But it was the representative of this opposition party who was at the government when the pension was fixed when the bank hole was actually created and is responsible for what is now in this country. Certainly not the SMC who created all these things. SMC is trying to make things better. And, of course, the indication that we must decide what we will defend today – black and white, whether we will defend our civilisational achievements or whether we will be migrants. We can defend both of them. This, on the one hand, is our right and also our duty. People don't trust us, you say, because they don't really know what we're gonna do. We're acting in accordance with the circumstances. Of course, their trust is conditioned to a large extent also by the conduct of politicians. If politicians show that they do not trust and spread it, of course, the people will follow. And the question is, how old are these minors? We are determined in the legislation that a minor is every 18 years old. So, if I understand, we would like to suggest that our citizens are subject to a limit of eighteen years, but we will probably determine, from case to case, when a minor is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u60	If respectable Mrs Kozlovich had listened to me, I said that we stress the need to help families in the first place. Mothers, children and so on. And you'll find it hard to convince me that some individual, a healthy middle-aged man, will leave his family at home. But when, of course, it's a matter of family association, all of a sudden, it's going to be very extensive. I was also talking about our amendment, which says that the merger should come gradually. Some other countries that have tightened the so-called migration legislation have been regulated. Interestingly, it was sharpened by Germany, Austria. And if we look there, we'll say pensions again, because you just exposed them, they're not exactly like us. But they've decided to tighten up the migrant policy. You said we were responsible for lowering our government's pensions. Tell me, which is the lowest pension the government we've ever been to has lowered. But it's true that we've been lowering high pensions. But it is true that today, and here I say out loud, that privileged pensions in this country really would not have to be in the state of the country. And that there is no need for many who are joyfully behind those who wave with a red star today to receive special pensions. If you wanted to somehow include this in the Zuif context, then I must warn you or remind you that you have only extended it, you who are saving the country today. As far as the bank hole is concerned, however, it would be good for you to check the data properly, but above all today the problem is that those who are known to have caused bank holes come back to the bank under your authority. But for what? We have probably proposed them in the Slovenian Democratic Party because they are so successful. Don't deal with governments eight years ago. You've been in power for two years now. Let's work! And yes, in Slovenia the people have power and the people have the right to express their opinions. Of course, it is an essential difference, or it expresses this opinion in a calm, dignified way. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u61	Mrs. Anya Bah, the replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u62	Yeah, right now. Yeah, I'm answering all this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u63	Replica three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u64	I'm sorry. I'll be right out. Or they're threatening to do that. I agree with you. But then you can't look at me, but you have to go somewhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I myself, like Mrs Bah Žibert, have applied for the word that I will have the opportunity of replica, because it is earlier my reaction, which I have really passed through the rules of procedure, because I simply did not hold back because all of this has exceeded every measure of taste. I've been on my own a few times, but today I'm going to play more seriously the number game he started, and I think, in my behaviour, Mr Gorenak, and today Mrs Bah Žibert danced on it. In fact, I could no longer listen to this calmly without reacting and, of course, I apologize for violating order in this national assembly, but it was simply too severe. The numbers we have before us and the comparison with our citizens. I get it myself, as we all have recently received e-mail from a citizen, social worker, that it is 297 thousand people living below the poverty line. Of course, I am very concerned about this fact, and I have been playing with numbers about what has been very serious lately, and I simply can’t listen to this anymore, I have to respond, and that is why I have applied for the word. You are talking about whether migrants or refugees, or asylum seekers, will receive more than citizens in the Republic of Slovenia who live below the poverty threshold. If I am playing in a similar way, and I admit that this is partly a manipulation, because it requires careful analysis, which I am not qualified to do, and I hope that someone in this country will take it seriously. But if we look at the data, even if we took yesterday's data, when from 833 Mr. Gorenak raised a thousand 344 euros to the cost in that country. It is a manipulation in this part that this money goes to migrants, that this money goes to asylum seekers, or those who enjoy subsidiary protection. This money is not for them, but it is for them to remain in this country and to be paid at the expense of the supply of accommodation and all the conduct needed in relation to these persons. So much so that we understand that this manipulation will not take place, that we give 1,344 euros to asylum seekers or even migrants, and only 440 euros to our citizens if pensions or 533 euros, if this is a minimum wage, a guaranteed salary that many of us also receive and must survive. But if we look at these numbers, this is a game of numbers, I warn you in advance. If we look at these numbers in advance, it should be noted that during all this time, we have received a migratory wave from the end of September to 15. February, we can see that 414 people have been asked to international protection, which has been highlighted several times today. We've already saved 109 requests from this. And in only 10 cases, international protection, asylum, or subsidiary protection was granted to persons. For 10 people in this narrower sense. In all this intense refugee wave, half a million people who have crossed the Republic of Slovenia have been found to have met the conditions and enjoy our protection. Even if, as Mr Gorenak says, for a thousand 344 euros a month, that would mean EUR 13,000 440 per month for 10 and about 150 000 per year for all 10 people, in the entire refugee wave of half a million. It is therefore important to point out that yesterday we received information that approximately 32 million spent on migrants, about 14 million of which we received from either the European Commission, the United Nations and others that contributed the funds, remains 18 million, divided by half million migrants who have crossed the Republic of Slovenia, which means that we had 33 euros in costs that were not paid to migrants when the services were paid, except those where we have volunteers whose voluntary work is not even roughly voluntary work, because, if nothing else, it is at least borderline or very similar to what we call a working relationship in the Labour Law. Although it is not a formal conclusion of this working relationship, but it works according to the mandate, it is under control, it corresponds to many elements, which means we have costs. And these costs remain, the costs paid remain for entities in the Republic of Slovenia. We didn't put you in the hands of migrants. Some of these, 45 of them all together, we give the allowance of 18 euros, which also pains you and reminds citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For 45 people 18 euros per month of allowance, please, a negligible expense! If you have a little bit of numbers on this game and you draw attention to the other questions that are related to it. Yes, I am glad, we are finally saying that those who need help must be helped, and this is the basic intention of marriage and we have never denied it and we are trying to get help from those who need it. But since this is a new phenomenon because it is a mass phenomenon, the story is slightly different at this point, like the usual story we knew last summer before the mass migration wave began. Of course we don't know what's gonna happen. We have, as satirical eye has been nicely said, we have some sights and we have some psychics, I'm not among them, I don't know what's going to happen. It is clear, however, that we must be prepared. We must be prepared both to accept those who need help and, of course, to respond if it is such a rush that they would not possibly be part of. For this reason, we must do our utmost to be prepared for those aspects that have nothing to do with this law. And I don't know why you started pushing into the debate and the adoption of the Law on International Protection of All Other Aspects. For other aspects, we have other legislation, we have other mechanisms, and not least this morning a meeting of the committee was convened, it was necessary, in the morning, the journalists were already here and they were interested in what was going on, why we had an urgent meeting of the committee dealing with the security aspect. These mechanisms work, operate normally and there is no need to mix this content with the content of international protection. The content of the International Protection Act, which is before us, has nothing to do with numbers, has nothing to do with what kind of budget we will spend, has nothing to do with encouraging people to refuse to accept the assistance they need in the Republic of Slovenia. And of course, on the other hand, she also warned that it was unacceptable to call people against the help they needed. As someone illustrated — that you will not be overly upset, I will not name a person — he said that it is a double morality. This is a double morality, if, on the one hand, we swear on the values of the European Union, which I know very well what they are, and, of course, based on human rights and on Christian tradition, I am very clear, I am also among the founders of the Slovenian pan-European movement, so I know very well what I am talking about. I know what the values are, I know where the foundations are. But I also know the contents of this. And, of course, it's a double morality if you swear compassion for the fellow man on one side, but on the other hand, you warn people in advance, and you call them unwanted among us because they're not ours. There are only two million of us, and we like to say very often about these, but they're not ours, they've come from somewhere. And we're comparing things to 1991, not to mention the century we've passed. Of course, these are big questions, and we face them on our own. But now, for the first time, because I haven't had the chance yet, I haven't taken the floor yet, and today I took it. For all these people you talk about and compare the costs we have, and once again I warn you, stay in the Republic of Slovenia, the payment for services and goods provided by entities in the Republic of Slovenia are not lost, they are not going anywhere, they are staying here. If we spend EUR 385 on these, as was said yesterday, for fixed costs of supply alone, and even though it would be €800 for the remaining fixed costs that we have by having accommodation centres, asylum homes, safe houses exist, we will not be able to reach more than €700,000 per year with these funds, according to the existing data for these persons we have here. While people you talk about and compare with and try to convince people that they should be at least a little sensitive, that they are more foreigners than domestic people, let us say that if you play with numbers like that, the average is 5 billion for 297 thousand people living below the poverty threshold, because we have four cash registers in this country. And if in this way, as you have set up the data, all the costs we have in relation to migrants, asylum seekers, those who enjoy international protection or those who benefit from subsidiary protection, then the costs we have in all four treasury bills, both for the narrower national budget, both for the municipalities, for the municipal budgets, as well as for the health and pension bills, should be included. Five billion euros! We don't even know what kind of relationship this is. And we can certainly see that even if these people come, as well as those 5 billion euros, people don't get directly into the hands divided into 297 thousand, but enjoy the other rights they have throughout our social state. I agree, we are trying to ensure that they also have higher standards as high as possible. Therefore, we must make every effort to improve the situation in all areas, so that people can live better, that they also feel that it is worth living, not only that you have problems if you live, but that they will love and enjoy life. Of course, we also need to improve this, but we are committed to a lot of common money. Of course, it doesn't go into people's hands, but we do take care of people, both those who come and need help, as it is for our people. And if you look at the game of numbers, this one especially surprised me. If you compare the 20 billion we spend in the budgets in the four cash registers with the 2 million, you'll find that you get exactly the same number you've been talking about all the time, that's 833 euros. These are the costs we have in our social state, whether it is our citizen or someone who needs help. About a thousand 350 euros stops on average for each of us, regardless of whether our citizen is a foreigner, is an asylumaire, is one who enjoys international protection with us or subsidiary protection. It's the same fate on the hair. While it is true that people who receive their money either through a salary that is shamefully low, absolutely, I will always agree, and you may also remember that I also came to discuss the guaranteed minimum wage, that it is wrong to deceive people because our salaries, the starting salary for the 1st class are there somewhere between 200 and 300 euros under collective agreements. I absolutely agree, and we have an absolutely social sense. But not in this case to mix it up and not encourage people to, for the sake of money, please, refuse to help the needy for money. This is what we owe when we talk about being civilized and someone who doesn't exactly have the same habits that we have, and that's why we have integration processes. And perhaps with a little luck, according to my experience, we too will learn much from them. When I was in their countries, in the countries where they came from, I, I admit, felt wonderful, never threatened, but I was in very dangerous countries, even at the border with Afghanistan at the time of the war. And I must say, I never felt threatened by anyone. I therefore hope that we will stop this and that we will focus on what is the essence of today's debate. It is a question of whether and what international protection will we offer to people who come to us because they need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, first of all, thank you for your apology for interrupting my debate. If you listened to me very carefully, we were talking about 1994 because I stressed that at the time people felt that it was refugees, that it was those who needed help, and that they specifically separated whether someone was an economic migrant or a refugee. As for the costs, we talked about the costs all the time. But what you're saying is that costs stay at home, and that's the stupidest. Excuse me, of course they're staying at home, but costs are being made. This money could be spent on something else, such as free lunches, which we have recently discussed on a proposal from one of the parties. Maybe for scholarships, maybe for help with those organizations that deal with rising and reducing unemployment. Don't talk about costs and then say it stays at home. That's ridiculous and, above all, misleading. And when you say that the costs for so-called applicants are equal, just as you did some sum up with what our citizens get, it's not true. Our citizens, who we compared to, spent 40 years putting money in our cash register. They have given this country, and today you are equalising or receiving less than the costs, I stress once again the costs for so-called applicants. Yeah, 18 euros. Sometimes it's not about height, sometimes it's about height. Sometimes it's a simple way. 18 euros seems very small to someone, someone thinks it's medium and someone thinks it's a lot. And we have proposed that this be replaced with material aid. The last alcohol-induced accident may just indicate that our proposal was more than justifiable, as 18 euros can then be spent by an individual for whatever he wants. You mentioned number 45. It would also be good to know how many of these are families. Really, family, how many individuals are there? This matter would be interesting and you speak at a time when Slovenia represented [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u69	Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u70	Just transit. Just transit. Wait until these people get back, then we can talk about the numbers. The calculations of the thousand 200 we are talking about will soon be much higher, as this will draw other things behind us.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Today we are considering the Law on International Protection. What is this law talking about? You won't believe this, about international protection. Today, we are hearing about all possible other topics. International protection is clearly defined, knowing which two forms exist. And that's what we're talking about today. And these few cases we have. Now we are falling into a sense of unnecessary demagogies. Today, I have always advocated such a very formalistic position, a legal formalistic position, and I am reading this law from this point of view. So I think we should do this in a way and put a little more effort into actually talking about the law that is before us today. This is not possible, however, if proposals such as the famous costs are coming to the table. I think my colleague Horvath has, in some ways, opened up this debate well before me. I think it is absurd to treat people in terms of costs, and it is even more absurd to add up all possible amounts to this cost. This is the same as saying that patients in Slovenia are, say, those who are beneficiaries of health care, the same cost, because we will also include the costs of salaries of doctors, nurses, cooks, other nursing staff, security guards, rental of premises, etc. In short, it's some ridiculous comparisons. Besides, when we talk about people, we can quantify them into numbers, but it's already at the edge of the impeccable. And what is even more unseemly is that this then turns to some costs at the expense of Slovenian citizens. The fact is that our citizens and citizens are in a very unenviable position. By now, all governments have been landing on those EUR 600 minimum wages that are far below allowing them to be paid for their jobs. We have EUR 288 for survival, which are more than half below the official poverty threshold, we have almost 400 000 people living on or below the poverty threshold, etc. But it's not the fugitives' fault. This is the fault of the public sector's forgiveness, which is due to the reduction of pensions, the blame for the reduction of social transfers, the theft of state property, the fiscal rule and, last but not least, the pension reform adopted by the government, which was led by the SDS. Now attacking refugees or taking advantage of the refugee crisis in order to show a social sense towards its own citizens is a complete hypocrisy on your part because it is pure demagogy and misleading. As far as other performances are concerned. A fellow Servant said that there were in some way two directions in the opposition. One pulls too much into the open, the other pulls too much into sharpening the measures and that in some ways the coalition here is some balance between the security and the humanitarian issue. I stress, the United Left has taken a very legal position. And what we are advocating today is that we are achieving that minimum compliance with legal standards. We are not going to any extremes of overopening or anything, but I repeat, today we are talking about asylum seekers or people who would potentially be entitled to international protection or subsidiary protection and nothing else. And if we are to deal with this, we must achieve minimum respect for these standards. As far as border procedures are concerned. It was said that they would introduce themselves, that there was no concern of rejecting people at the border, and that they would only be introduced for those who apparently did not meet the conditions. This is a violation of international law. The Directive itself clearly provides that each request must be dealt with individually. Some effort is needed to get deeper into a particular case. This cannot be done either through the thumb or in the appearance of an assessment of whether someone is entitled to international protection or not. As far as all the security guards were concerned, they were supposed to be present, which Ferlug's colleague read from the law. These are, however, but where it is specified that these fuses will be used in border procedures. Fourteen days is the time limit within which the official should carry out the procedure. Today, however, we see that it takes more than a year to deal with these requests. Sometimes it's just an interpreter for a year. We already have a high percentage of illegal decisions rejected. It is said that these guards will not be able to function in practice. Thus, there is reasonable doubt that these border procedures will constitute infringements and, of course, also potential grounds for action by the relevant institutions. Border procedures will be the basis for illegal mass rejection, and this is in some ways a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Yes, there is not a gentleman who did a whole lecture earlier, Mr Horvath, about the costs. I hope he can hear us. I'm just gonna, I'm gonna say, some of what they say down there, nonsense or crazy, if you want. Yours too, Mr. Vatovec now. Then who's paying for it? You're saying it's not a cost. And that the citizens, we've heard before, have nothing to do with it. Who pays for this if not the Republic of Slovenia from the budget? And who then fills this budget if not the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Mr Horvath spoke relatively correctly earlier about matters when he spoke about the fact that these people do not receive this money. Of course they don't. Who says they're getting it? But I'm glad that yesterday, even though you've been totally dismembered in the coalition, we've reached relatively accurate numbers. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister was selling the fog, it seems to him that the costs of only EUR 385 per asylum seeker, I stress, to the asylum seeker, then the finance minister said that the costs were more than EUR 10 000 per year or more than 833, he even said that the number was close to what the interior minister had said, which is EUR 1,000 500 per month per asylum seeker. However, what Mr. Horvath claims below is of course not true is that it is 42 people or as much as he said or that during this year we granted asylum from this package to only ten people and then came to this multiplied number by 10. That's not true. The number of thousands of EUR 300 per asylum seeker refers to all asylum seekers, including those waiting for a decision. This means that we cannot say that only ten people have spent that money. No, that's not true. It's used for anyone who's in an asylum. Now there's over 400 locations worth of them. Otherwise, it is of no particular importance to talk about these numbers, because the official information adopted by this government is also available, so your government. She said how much costs were incurred in 2014 when 49 people were there. At the time, these costs were, as indicated here, a thousand 300 euros and so much for one asylum seeker. This remains in the country of Slovenia, of course, in the country of Slovenia, but if we did not have any asylum seekers, there would be no such costs. This is then compared with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to cost about that much if we add up all four cash registers, but it is madness. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia worked here for 40 years and paid taxes for 40 years and paid for 40 years in the pension register to earn 400 euros today. We cannot agree that he is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia in this respect in terms of costs with one asylum applicant in the situation he is in. That those who have €400,500 are paying in the state budget to go from the state budget to €300 per month for one asylum seeker. Of course, this does not go together in any way. This compares to doctors, etc., it's nonsense, it's not going anywhere. Or the rest and the amendments. Previously, the United Left SMC made a statement that it was on the verge of violating European law. Yeah, that's right. But there is no more European legislation. Then don't compare it to a fog. It's fog. Dublin Regulation, fog. She's gone. Germany suspended it as early as July last year. There is no common asylum policy in Europe. In Europe, there is a principle to find out, according to your own words. Then to threaten with some processes against the state of Slovenia because it does not respect these rules or is at the limit of non-compliance with the European rules that exist at all. Why? Because they're gone. The Germans first said, "Dublin regulation goodbye." She's gone. Are you going to respect something that's gone? In this respect, I support the amendments or support what the SMC has done in this amendment when it limits the possibility of asylum seekers coming to Slovenia. If someone is a member of the European Union and any member of the European Union, and if he comes to Slovenia and asks for asylum here – yes, why? He could have asked where he was at first. Either he was in Greece, either he went across Croatia or he was returned from Austria, it doesn't matter. There he could have applied for asylum. Here's what it means to support this government's thinking, if you want. But at costs, we'll never come together. Because if you think electricity costs nothing if you think that water costs nothing if you think security costs nothing – yes, 220 000 euros were paid in 2014 for a security service that protects an asylum home. That will also have to be paid this year, but probably three times that much, given that we now have scattered asylum units at home. That's the cost and it's done! And we can't say it's not a cost right now. These are the costs paid by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Let me answer when my colleague Vatovec said that we are on the verge of legality with our law or government law. Certain proposals from the United Left are also quite contrary to the Directive. As far as border procedures are concerned, let me say once again that they are regulated by the directive and have not been invented by the government. As to how it will be dealt with — if it cannot be determined within 14 days, it is going to be a regular procedure. This means that all these people will be treated subjectively, given their personal circumstances. Your claim that we have a high percentage of illegal decisions so far, that is something flat-rate, so we would like your specific statement here. And on that basis, you also claim that this border procedure can go in this direction. These are just some flat-rate statements, and your claim here is inconclusive. As far as the cost is concerned. The fact is, we're not coming together because we can manipulate these numbers very nicely. But we do know that the budget means the circulation of money. The more money circulates, the more the economy can turn; and that is its foundation. You say refugees, applicants get money and they have expenses. This is where you have to separate. You must separate and tell what rights refugees have – Mr Gorenak is leaving – and what rights the applicants have. There's a difference, you can't say that everyone costs that much, you have to be exact. You need to look into the law that the asylum-seeker's rights go to the fugitive, the one who's recognized his status. It's true. Eight was recognized. And those applicants who are currently eligible, we have 414, that's the last piece of information. On 28 February, we have 414 applicants and 10 have been approved, 8 applications for refugee status and 2 requests for subsidiary protection granted. As far as pensioners and EUR 400 are concerned. They do not contribute to the budget because they do not pay contributions to the budget; only if they have little work do they pay income from it. Of these €400, they do not contribute to the budget, for this money, which also circulates for our jobs. Again, as for the fact that it is such a low pension, that the police have low salaries, that the military has low salaries, that we have too few police officers, that we have too little military – respected SDS, that is your thanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u77	The replica has Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u78	It won't work, Mrs. Kozlovich. It won't work! I didn't do anything wrong. I specifically said that I was talking about applicants for international protection, or in my own words — asylum seekers. And these, as you said, are 414; but the eighth or tenth is already recognized. That's what we're talking about, isn't it? And they cost you a thousand and three hundred and thirty euros a month, dot, dot, dot! It's written here, and it says "President of the Government of Miro Cerar" in the back. Yeah, that's the cost. Anything else? I don't know what else to explain here. But I wasn't talking about the ones you drive for free from the Age to Austria. To these, count 9.20 euros as paid by the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia if he travels to Šentilj from Dobova. And you drive them for free. See, that's also the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss Article 16 and the amendment of the United Left Group? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] . Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you. I could replicate the previous statements on border procedures, but I knew that we would come to this article quickly, so I have an opportunity now. Article 43 speaks of so-called border procedures, and this is one, even at the outset, of the most controversial provisions of this new law. According to the law in force, we have a special procedure only for procedures at airports and ports, and with a new proposal this procedure also applies to borders. With the amendment, we propose to maintain the current regime to keep these procedures at airports and ports, because we are against precisely the application of these so-called border procedures, the main purpose of which, in our view, is only one, and this is, of course, an accelerated procedure in which the admissibility of an application can be decided, which is in some way an illegal practice already implemented by most members of the European Union. This provision lays the groundwork for the mass rejection of applicants, which I have already pointed out because it is an accelerated procedure that does not have an appropriate remedy. If we look at the whole proposal together, if in some way we read the law in full, how the articles work on each other, in fact in Slovenia virtually no longer will we be able to obtain protection. Why? The government has written the law in such a way that it can be completely arbitrary on its basis to limit the number of applications and also the protections granted. It is clear that setting such or any quota — and this is actually a type of quota — or preventing persons from making requests is illegal; however, the government has decided to make a completely identical solution, described in a different way by these border procedures. Regardless of where the person at the border will come from, Slovenia will be able to expel it after an accelerated procedure, since the government has determined that it can quickly dismiss everyone for a request. There are two conditions, which, for the first time, existed before coming to Slovenia in any of the governments – because it has to determine this – of the safe countries; or, for the second time, which came to Slovenia from another Member State of the European Union. This clearly shows that Slovenia can deny protection to everyone from the enforcement of the law; no matter where and why they came to us, because, on the one hand, they come to us through the Member States and also countries that the government holds secure; but we will come to this a little later. Is this illegal and contrary to international European law and our Constitution? Yes, of course it is. But since everyone from Slovenia will be expelled before they can file a complaint, the government is likely to hope that no one will notice that, in short, this thing will go smoothly. That any group return of persons is illegal and that neither Greece nor Italy, which falls under the two conditions established by law, can be regarded as safe countries, has already been clearly defined by the European Court of Human Rights. It has also made it clear several times that all applicants must have an effective remedy, which this law also abolishes. When and under what conditions an accelerated or border procedure should be applied, it is also clearly set out in the Directive we implement. Here, the provisions of this law are contrary to the directive itself, which is trying to implement. But apparently, the government has simply forgotten about the importance of respecting the rule of law, as well as special concerns about the protection of human rights. In the light of widespread panic and the spread of fear, the obvious respect for international requirements and the protection of human rights is also becoming irrelevant to the coalition. The result will be to get new deleted; and this time even at European level. Since we believe that already one huge black mark for Slovenia is too much, the amendments propose deleting the constitutionally controversial provisions that introduce this border procedure. And if we do not want Slovenia to become a serial human rights violator, then we must support this amendment today; unless in some way you share in the coalition the right-wing opinion that refugees are not human beings and therefore cannot have human rights. This is no longer a matter of opposition, let us say to this, to the reckless decisions of the government or to the actions of the government; it is a matter of non-constitutional solutions; it is a matter of breaches of international European law. For any such solution proposed by this law, there is almost a judgment that testifies to its unconstitutionality or is inconsistent with international acts. The only thing and here again I underline this legal-formalist concept today, because we could go to a completely different reading of this law; it is imperative that we adopt amendments because we have to meet these minimum standards, which we call respect for the international legal order.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 43 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you. I will no longer answer the border procedure, because I think the government will confirm it, I have said it many times. For article 51 alone, we were also told why we first decided to enter a single indent and why we also had doubts that it might not be the right time to do so. As for the allegations that the applicants will be expelled before they file a complaint. Here, it is said that when someone no longer has a right, there will be a law on foreigners. You need to know the Foreigners Act that determines when and how someone comes back. So there is no way that anyone is expelled before he can make a complaint; but the mechanisms that enable him to do so and also in accordance with the basic principles of this law are provided him with all the legal guarantees. As far as the safe state is concerned, you object. In Article 51, I will reiterate that this is in line with the Directive and that safe countries must also be set up in advance. Currently, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not made a list to identify which countries are safe. All the general panic you're talking about, of course, you're deceiving. There's no panic. The government, I will say again, shall act when necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u84	In a way, yes. I'm starting to find this ping-pong all the time. If we travel to the Foreigners Act, there is a deadline of 7 to 30 days; in the proposal for a new ZMZ we have this period of 8 days. And at a time where they would be, within seven days, these rejection procedures would be completed. In connection with the suspension it introduces, this remedy is in fact lacking and no longer lacking in legal protection. And stop saying that everything is determined and in accordance with the directive because it is not. I have already clearly listed several times today which provisions are contrary to the directive and those also referred to by non-governmental organisations, humanitarian organisations which are contrary to international acts and from the Geneva Convention to European legal acts. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We have previously heard that the law reduces individual procedures more quickly, allowing it to complete the individual phase, either at the beginning or in the intermediate phase. However, I believe that the disadvantage of this law is that it is not determined when, or at what time, a full - time person must apply. This seems important to us, so we are proposing a three-day deadline here. This seems to us to be an acceptable time. Within three days, somehow every individual who comes to the Republic of Slovenia knows what his purpose is. Surely such an amendment would help us to come to conclusions more quickly; and we know exactly what this individual wants. Our proposal is that when the competent authority enters the Republic of Slovenia with the applicant, when it has expressed that purpose, it shall submit it within three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 49 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. It is about defining or shortening the time frame when a decision is to be taken. We suggest it's 30 days. The fact is that the Government proposes to extend its decision by the competent authority which decides to do so; in the end, it can take up to one year and more. We believe that this interim period is too long to know the status of the applicant or the status of the applicant in relation to the conventions, according to the legislation and everything else can be gained. We believe that the Authority can decide this matter within 30 days without prolonging it. And it even defines in the law if it fails to do so within that period, that period will even be extended. We are simply proposing that this matter should be cut short here, which will certainly be in the interest of everyone, the applicant and the Republic of Slovenia, so that this process can be carried out more quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u90	Just one sentence. It proposes to delete the only two indents which are actually good and smart in this whole law. That says a lot about the candidates for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u91	The Minister of Magic has the floor. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. As we are considering today the amendment of the Law on International Protection, it is right to recall that the Ministry of the Interior has been calling for an integrated approach in all respects since the beginning of the migration crisis. The European Agenda on Migration at Work, when it comes to effective migration policy, also highlights the fight against illegal migration, which is also one of the very important aspects of this integrated issue, which must also be based on effective external border management. As we are discussing a very important law today, it is also appropriate to emphasise that the migration crisis did not begin in 2015. The migrant crisis, or refugee problem, is actually a result of years of neglect, leading to an escalation in this crisis in 2015; and it is also appropriate to adapt legislation adopted at European and national level to this fact. On the other hand, it is certain that the refugee crisis, as it knocked on the door of the European Union, is in fact nothing new in a global sense. There has always been, but at this time or in these processes the attitude towards this problem is changing, and we are also facing it today in Europe. We know that some countries are very open and adopt; others are governed by a purely transit policy and third countries are more prone to some kind of securitisation. In modern times, it is practically not difficult to find a question that cannot be judged through the prism of security, which is certainly not acceptable in a situation where the security picture does not confirm it. However, as we have also listened yesterday to the obvious that there is not enough communication and that there is not enough information, particularly by the government authorities, I must reiterate here that the obvious that there is no communication and that there is no information, is actually one of the hidden ways to disagree with certain serious and urgent solutions. I do not think that this is acceptable because certain solutions are also necessary to ensure security, so that we do not mention any other aspects of this problem. Today's debate in the National Assembly is expected in my opinion, not to say "past," but in writing, interesting. The fact is that today's debate in the National Assembly confirms not only the fact that, in these difficult times, there is pressure on the Schengen regime and on the whole body of international law governing international protection. However, in this context and in the context of all the efforts and views that are increasingly being adopted at the level of the European Union, it must be made clear that the right to asylum or the right to asylum is not based on the right to choose the country in which persons are to be asked for international protection. The race of this conclusion, as well as the views adopted at the level of the European Union, even in the conclusions of the European Council, is that international protection is not subordinate to freedom of movement. International protection within the European Union means a limited movement from one Member State to another within 90 days. It is quite clear that international law and European law are not based on choice as a primary principle, but aim to ensure that the first secure country, or if we are talking in the context of the European Union, the first European legal state should address the application for international protection or offer protection; this means that all European countries are safe and all European countries or countries of the European Union are also parties to the Geneva Convention. At the same time, it is important to stress in this integrated story that things will actually work in terms of the purpose of international protection that all solidarity mechanisms that are part of the European Union's concept of international protection must work simultaneously. As far as Slovenia is concerned, as we are discussing today the Law on International Protection, namely the national law, which must also be in line with the directives of the European Union, it should be stressed that Slovenia is not the first country to enter the European Union nor is it the first country to enter the Schengen area. Of course, Slovenia will continue to work towards humanitarian treatment of the migrant flow, as the National Assembly has also imposed on us, this is also our moral and ethical obligation. However, I believe that, as a country, we have the sovereign right and duty to take all measures, i.e. legislative measures, but above all, in the absence of a common European solution that allows for the smooth functioning of the country even if the state could be under disproportionate pressure on one of its key subsystems, a concrete asylum system. From the time I attended the meeting of ministers in Brussels, and also later, I made it clear that Slovenia is in a difficult position, we must come from a real situation. On the one hand, we are dealing with an open-door policy of certain countries, i.e. countries north of us, which objectively changed the structure of the migration flow, i.e. in terms of the percentage ratio between refugees and other migrants. At the same time, it is these open-door countries, and perhaps also open-door policies, as we have heard in the last days, that these same countries are also setting internal borders within the Schengen area or talking about the importance of internal borders within the Schengen area in which these borders are supposed to be non-existent, and measures in practice are actually exacerbating reception. What we are monitoring today in Macedonia is one of the concrete tangible solutions, which was also taken up by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that happening in Macedonia is of great importance and also symbolic importance, because in the case of Macedonia, the willingness of European countries to seek an approximation of the European solution is reflected in some way. So I think, actually, in this, if we can call it a double game, so on the one hand, we have an open door policy, and on the other hand, the flow is secretly limited, there is no place to even talk about internal borders being a solution within the Schengen space. If the purpose of all these arrangements and efforts is something else, I think it is also time and it is right to make this clear. Slovenia is a credible member of the Schengen area and there is absolutely no reason for Slovenia to be blamed in any way for its actions, because I think it has done its task extremely well. The paradoxical nature of the situation in Hungary is also evident. We know that, despite the fact that they have their own fence on which some are referring to arguments about their sovereignty and the effective resolution of the problem, this proves that this does not work, since Hungary has even more illegal border crossings on certain days than Slovenia has had in the event of our controlled transition, which is certainly more acceptable and manageable than the scattered border crossing. Today there was also talk about quotas. I must stress that Slovenia does not have quotas. The quotas actually put some countries north of us. In recent times, one of the arrangements that has gone towards reducing the migratory flow in order to achieve a manageable number of migrants on the Western Balkan route has been an agreement or joint statement by the general directors of the police, which also reaches a manageable level of migration, which still allows individual control of each individual migrant in accordance with the Schengen Code. And this solution, which is complementary, is complementary to the Schengen Code, to the conclusions of the European Council and is also against the so-called way through policy; therefore, some countries only allow transit across their territory. As with the implementation of the Schengen, we cannot wait for a common solution, because European solutions are too slow, I believe that, even in the case of legislation, that is, in the case of the International Protection Act that we are discussing today, certain very clear and very decisive positions should be taken, as well as solutions that adequately respond to the fact that mass arrivals into the European Union and at the borders of individual countries in the context of mixed migratory flows. In short, the objective in any case, with measures and legislation, must be to reduce migration flows or to deal with them in accordance with the basic concepts of the European Union. The European Agenda on Migration, when it comes to strengthening the European asylum system, also speaks of a more effective approach to abuse. Too many applications are unfounded and, in this way, also in the entire context are taken away from those who are actually entitled to international protection at the expense of some who may not need these protections. Today there was also some talk about the forecast in the coming years. Predicts are that the migration crisis will be long lasting, that is, 5, 10 years, maybe more. While there is currently no pressure on the Slovenian asylum system, given the long-term perspective, we can expect the target countries to no longer be able to accept, which can also mean, in the medium or long term, that there will be increased pressure on other Member States, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, however, we know that European solutions are too slow in this segment, and that is why certain solutions need to be adopted in legislation to minimize certain disproportionate pressures on the asylum system. Then, at an extreme stage, this will mean that people who are entitled to international protection will not be given a rapid and effective process. There is a lot of talk about Article 51 or the amendments to Article 51 of the Law on International Protection. With regard to the rejection of the application as inadmissible in cases where the applicant comes from a third safe country, I must clarify here that this provision is fully in line with the procedural directive. It will still be an individual hearing, the applicant will still be able to present facts and evidence in a personal interview and show why a particular country is not personally safe for him. It will be examined whether he actually had the opportunity to apply for international protection for justified reasons in the country concerned. This segment is by no means overlooked and I also think it is quite clear that this is properly taken into account. However, as regards proposals relating to the possibility of rejecting or rejecting an application as inadmissible when it is clear from the circumstances of the applicant's entry that he has entered the Republic of Slovenia from a country which is a Member State of the European Union, it should be pointed out here that the current legislation on international protection at European Union level and consequently also at national level does not allow for prompt and effective treatment in the event of a massive number of applications for international protection. We therefore consider that the proposal that I have just stated is justified that it is in place. This is based on the assumption that the person in need of protection should apply for this international protection in his first safe country, with the proposed solution limited only to the Member States of the European Union. We know that the Member States of the European Union are manifesting themselves as safe countries of origin through the Protocol to the Treaty of Amsterdam. All Member States of the European Union are also parties to the Geneva Convention. The Member States of the European Union are also committed to establishing a common European asylum policy or a common European asylum system based on the principle that the entire European Union is an area of freedom, security and justice, thus open to all those who are forced by legitimate circumstances to seek a solution. It should also be pointed out here that, at European Union level, the same mechanism is also provided for in the Dublin Regulation, which lays down rules for determining the Member State responsible for examining the application. However, since Dublin contains very complex procedural rules, these procedures on average last 5 to 6 months and are therefore unusable in mass arrival situations. This solution, which we are talking about today, creates a mechanism under the Dublin Regulation with a national lever, because Dublin is not, in fact, taken into account or not working. It should also be stressed that the proposed solution is optional. In view of the structure of applicants for international protection, it is still possible to deal substantively with certain vulnerable groups – either unaccompanied minors or requests from countries of origin for which it is clear that they need international protection. However, the proposed solution makes it possible to better manage migration flows and, given that migration is indeed massive, the possibilities for misuse of asylum procedures or international protection procedures are also minimised, which are certainly occurring under certain circumstances. Here, too, I must point out that all the discussions and all the positions are going in this direction at the level of the European Union. The European Commission is also preparing Dublin 4 as the custodian of the European acquis, in which the Schengen Code will be incorporated as appropriate. Their thinking goes in this direction, too. The European Commission has made it clear that it is the right concept to apply for asylum in the first safe European country, and then the relocation is carried out, which also gives a clear signal to persons wishing to join the European Union that this is the only way to obtain international protection and that everything must be done to stop so-called asylum shopping, so that no choice can be made as to where a particular person wants international protection. The European Union is also seeking to reduce this manoeuvre for opportunism. The aim of all of this is that asylum systems are not burdened with those who obviously want to exploit the migratory flow for certain other interests; not because of the justified need to obtain international protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you. I'm going to be very brief, too. Of course there's a problem. We've heard a lot about what the article says. With everything we have listened to so far, let us forget something or miss out on some fact that most of these countries do not have a sustainable asylum system in practice. Speaking of Greece, Italy, this is a country where the European Court of Human Rights has already established that they do not have a sustainable asylum system and that it is not safe to return asylum seekers to these countries because they pose a threat to their personal security because they do not have adequate asylum systems. And the same applies to safe third countries and so on. With this proposal, which we are now entering into the law, we are in some way allowing some possibility of arbitration quotas, some asylum raffles, if I may call them that; where the official body will in some way judge which it rejects. And this category of Member States of the European Union and of safe third countries is practically anyone crossing the Slovenian border. Of course, there is a possibility that there may be a number of mass rejections. But what is problematic here is that, in line with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, countries falling within these two categories, in short, safe third countries and other Member States of the European Union, may be potentially contrary to the practice of the European Court of Justice and can also be other institutions. Here again, I recall a possible violation of international law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The only thing I would really agree with is that what is proposed here in the basic text — not the amendment that I object to — is in line with the principles of international law governing this area. Anyone who takes time and reads international acts in peace knows that this is not only in accordance with these acts, but even follows the spirit or conclusions that were formulated or adopted at the same time with the Geneva Convention, its Protocol and other acts that regulate it. What I would find very difficult to agree with, however, is a few assertions about which little more is said. First, as far as the current situation is concerned, when Slovenia, together with the Visegra Group, helps to establish a new line at the Macedonian-Greek border that this is the idea of Mr Cerar. This, if you will recall, was the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which was given at the beginning of last autumn, but of course it was not wanted to be heard at the time. Similarly, what we are adopting today could be arranged, and some other things could be done, better by our proposal for a law that has exacerbated asylum law. So you turned it down. Working with the Multi-Garden Group was the proposal of our session, I wrote it myself, I defended it here, you rejected it two months ago. Things are changing. It may be working in the right direction now, but the problem is, it's all terribly late. All that has been done wrong, all that has been done unlawfully, unlawfully, and against the European Union's regulations even in the early autumn of this year, of course, is now returning as a terrible boomerang. And right before that, I argued all these months. Right before that. Here is the problem that we are facing today, which is so much bigger because it does not support your claim that you are properly informing the public and the institutions. Don't joke. Just a good week ago, in the National Assembly, the government, and the ruling coalition confirmed this by voting, denied Parliament as the highest legislative body the right to at least take a closer look at the plans the government has to face in the face of the migration crisis, which is the absurdity and paradox of the highest category. Not only have you not been properly familiar with the public, but you have not been familiar with this national assembly with the basic plan. There has been no such thing in history, by the way, independent Slovenia. And that's a terrible mistake. What kind of mistake does that make? Leave room for fear, then there is a legitimate fear, everyone wonders what is wrong with this government, and the hell it doesn't even want Parliament to say in a closed session, what it has prepared in such an important area that we all agree is a major security and, in fact, an increasingly social and economic challenge facing Slovenia and the whole European Union during this period. Don't ever say you've been properly familiar with the public. You're not. And then it opens up a space for fear, fear opens up a room for manipulation, and then there's all sorts of manipulations -- one time it's a poster, one time I don't know what kind of signs it's squeezing, one time it's throwing stones and it's squeezing the opponent, and it's burning. And finally we come to the absurd situation that the Slovenian police have now managed to solve when you have on one side of people, old ladies and poets who carry the text of the toast; on the other hand, a veiled group, apparently trained, equipped with sticks that knew exactly how to stand, knew exactly why to stand up, and was obviously ready to cut down after the violence. The moment those two faced it was the end of that right, how the right was violent and the left was charitable. If those on the left who were covered there were indeed on a humanitarian mission, they would not have held sticks in their hands, they would not have squeezed themselves together, and they would not have been covered up because they were on a humanitarian mission, they would have gladly shown their face. And you shouldn't hide behind these covered guys with sticks all over the top of the transition left – from Milan Kučan, Jankovic, Struklj, Fajon and so on. This is very sad what happened there; at the same time very scary. But also part of the responsibility for this point is borne by the government because it did not get to know all the facts in time. We have been alerting them all the time; if people do not know what awaits them, if people wonder what awaits them, then they are rightly afraid. And don't say ignorance is fear. Ignorance of your plans can be a reason for fear, the other way around. However, the reason for concern is that they are aware of what may be the result of wrong plans. They don't know what he's like. They don't know if he's real. What are the consequences of the wrong plans, but they see every day in reports from abroad, when it comes to Taharrush Game, to violence against women, to sexual delinquency against children, to murders, to everything you invent and do not belong to Europe. And, of course, there is also terrorism and, fortunately, there are also many police interventions that prevent terrorism at the last minute, like that action in Germany, where several terrorists were arrested who were preparing the worst forms of violence. And these people went across Slovenia. Why they could have gone over — because the rules were not respected at the time. Now you're slowly applying the rules, now you're going in the right direction. But what was happening in the autumn, what was happening at the beginning of this year, was, for the first time, illegal, completely flawed and posed a huge security, economic, social and humanitarian risk. Why I also say humanitarianally — because of what has been done. And I'm not saying that you've done this on your own. You've done a lot of things because you've just received such a hint from Germany or from other countries. But why listen to this? Obviously, we were the only ones who could count on ourselves, and we could only rely on ourselves sooner. Now, as we say, it's going in the right direction. But these things come back like boomerang and will be back for quite some time, completely unnecessary. For if things are not foreseen in due time and those measures are not taken that are less painful, then they must be cut down after worse. This is a problem facing all of Europe today. And still part of Europe, unfortunately that was also in your words, speaks of this crisis going on for another decade. If the migration flow lasts ten years, Europe will no longer be. Already there is little left of it, we have internal borders within the Schengen, we no longer have any free border crossing, there is economic damage, there is growing fear, there is growing mistrust, there is also a growing resentment of one country against another. It's not something you can build on. As we say, the only positive thing at this time is that you finally started using what we suggested many months ago. But these months are a waste of time, and no one can return these months. And it would be good for you to gather at least so much courage and to present to the public at least once in a closed session as much as possible how you intend to face this crisis. For this is no longer a matter of what the government wants, what the opposition wants; it is a question of the existence, existence of Slovenia, its operation, the security of people and also of an effective economy, in short, of the further development of the state of Slovenia, whether alone or further within the European Union, if this is already understood by that sentence that I have already said more than 12 months ago and then repeated many times – whether they will once and for all be protected by the external borders of the European Union or grow up internally. And then, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union will no longer be.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic has the floor. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Just an additional explanation with regard to the implementation of the Vatovec Member. In view of my initial argument, which was given in my initial implementation, that the right to asylum does not, or does not, allow for the choice of a country in which a person wishes to apply for asylum, this is also clear from the conclusions of the European Council, where it was said that Member States at the external borders must refuse entry to those who do not meet the conditions for entry and did not ask for international protection, even though they did have this possibility. In fact, the proposed amendments to Article 51 of the Law on International Protection go in this direction. That is why I have also mentioned in the introduction that this manoeuvre for opportunism, as noted at the level of the European Union, needs to be reduced so that aid can be offered to those who actually need it. If we look at the fundamental concepts governing the body of international law governing refugees, one way to distinguish between a refugee and other migrants is the concept of the first safe country that the refugee reaches on the run from war or from persecution. Of course, this is not the only criterion, since fleeing war and persecution under some inherent humanitarian principle, and on the basis of objective circumstances, however, is also linked to illegal border crossings. As far as non-refoulement is concerned. Here too, when the procedure for international protection ends with a negative decision and this decision is confirmed by the court, a separate procedure, i.e. the return procedure, is launched; therefore, no expulsion. This is not called exile, but the procedure for returning a foreigner either to the country of origin or to another safe country. This separate procedure also takes into account the principle of non-refoulement, the so-called non-refoulement principle, which is always identified individually and always in an individual administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Who would have thought, but this time I agree with the minister in this work. I would like to point out that we have also been saying this all the time that it is necessary to separate between the so-called refugees or those who are really needed by European countries; and those who exploit and are so-called migrants. And if you are a refugee, your status is essentially true when you come to the first safe country; and not by choosing which country you prefer to walk around Europe with individual A4 formats and reading which country will offer you more. Of course, it's hard for me to justify the status of the fugitive. But there is something else where I can't quite agree, because you said that the law in question is also proof of a more decisive position in solving the migration problem. I have to say, in a way, it doesn't hold. Why not? Today, after months of warning that so-called asylum legislation should be tightened up, today we have received your proposal at the table. It is indeed a proposal, but I must remind you that the countries of the West, north of us at that time, have already begun the second time procedures for sharpening migrant legislation and are more responsive to current situations and events. When you speak of more decisive positions, then it would certainly be true to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party in this regard, but we are constantly receiving rejection. Let me just remind you of some. Is it not also a more decisive position to tackle the migration problem by reducing the time limits for decision-making? Definitely. Is it not also a more decisive position that rights and obligations are precisely defined; and when such violations occur that the status of international protection may also be withdrawn? It is also in the law, which I do not agree with, which is not exactly the purpose of this law, but it is mainly help for those who actually need it, but whether it is not enough to say that these people are free to go to the labour market at the same time, or not enough to receive assistance, either within the framework of an asylum home, for one year. Is it not also a more decisive view that after a period of one year it is actually verified that this status is still in force and that the conditions for that person to return to his original environment may have already arisen? Is it not also right to suspend financial assistance when the applicant does not want to stay in an asylum home? If he feels that he does not need this right, why does he need money to help him move?Oh, my God! Then it is likely that some friends and acquaintances will provide this form of residence, and why is this on the back of the country?Oh, my God! And is it not a firmer view that any financial assistance is replaced by material aid, thus also preventing child abuse? Why should we not turn this into material goods, including children’s goods; and not financial aid, which can sometimes go this form of pocket money for things that are not necessarily life’s necessities or whatever we call it. And is it not even more decisive that what we have proposed in the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party should exacerbate violations in asylum homes? I still can't, and somehow I can't accept that in the law it remains that the sanction of the applicant in the event that he owns a weapon or an explosive, is that he is transferred to another environment. I know it'll be easy to deal with then, but it's a bad thing. I think these are more decisive steps; and unfortunately I do not see this in this law. As it is said, individual measures are welcome, but I still believe that many or most of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party are useful, that they do not take anything from anyone, that they do not take anything from anyone; and above all they do not take from those who are refugees. For the fugitive leaves his country, because he is threatened by war, because of violence. And if one country receives a residence, if three meals a day are available in one country, how can one say that anything is taken from it; or if certain other things, or by this law, are reduced to such an extent as are acceptable to the State in a given situation. What you stressed, Minister, is true — the waves are still coming. There will be years to come and even in Slovenia these numbers will grow. Why are we not already going into such measures as will actually allow these people to stay? But we can't offer them more than we offer our own citizens. That's how they feel, and they can feel justified. For these rights, which are in this law, are not an obligation. The ones I was talking about aren't an obligation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 65 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 70 and the two amendments of the Joint Left Group. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you. The proposal for an International Protection Act, despite the apparent unconstitutionality, legitimizes the suspension of the complaint. What does that mean in practice? Slovenia will therefore, on the one hand, after accelerated border procedures on the basis of the fact that applicants from neighbouring Croatia have come to us, for example, grouply reject these applicants in accommodation centres. It is quite clear that such an act is illegal and because the government is aware of it, it introduces or ensures that these applicants leave Slovenia in some way before they can complain. We are now legislating an illegal, illegal and unconstitutional solution, of course, under the pretext of as much implementation of the directive as possible, but of course it does not; the directive provides for something completely different. The Directive sets out clearly when an accelerated procedure can be applied and when a border procedure can be applied. The draft law already allows the accelerated border procedure to be applied to a large extent and is already in direct violation of the Directive. For the Directive defines accelerated and border procedures as an exception; these procedures will become a rule for us. And if we add to this the suspension of the action brought in all the expedited proceedings, this provision is no longer in conflict with the directive alone, but also with other acts. Here I am talking about Article 46 of the Directive, Article 25 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the caselaw of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights. The fifth paragraph of Article 46 of the Directive makes it clear that Member States must allow applicants to remain in their territory until the expiry of the period within which they may exercise their right to an effective remedy; if such a right is exercised within that period, it shall be exercised until the conclusion of the proceedings with a remedy. However, the government and the coalition simply decided to reject the applicants after a rapid procedure and to expel them before they could invest. As I have already said, the shortest period set by the Foreigners Act to leave the country is 7 days. In these cases, applicants will be able to be expelled before the deadline for filing an action of 8 working days is reached. The rejected applicant will be able to be threatened at home in border situations before the deadline for the complaint can be reached. The parties of modern lawyers – and we also appeal here to the other partners of the coalition – we suggest that you do not somehow succumb to this pyre logic or to following public opinion, but that for a moment they stop, think a little bit and forget about these effects of public opinion to forget the political pyar and support our amendments that erase this suspension. In addition, the abolition of the possibility of appeal to the Supreme Court is added here. In short, it is a complete dispersion of any judicial protection for asylum seekers. We appeal to reason, to respect certain minimum legal standards and to be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u103	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you. Certain things are so sad that sometimes the best thing to say is some humor. Why is winter the best time of the year for everyone on the right? Because it's the only time you see a left-handed man with his hands in his pockets. But my provost didn't have them right now, and that's the problem with the left, that he always thinks he can take everything and give it anywhere and that it's unlimited. But, people of God, someone pays for it. The funds are limited, let me understand this one more time. And this country has its own resources, which are shared, which are limited; and these resources need to be allocated as rationally as possible. This is indeed the case in this provision. Then I do not know what extension of rights would, of course, be a tremendous reflection of the process, because these proposed changes are merely a form of appreciation of the procedure, while all principles are still respected. Anyone who claims otherwise does not tell the truth. Then I will read you a letter that I received today. Since you all always have anonymities, let me say that this is Mrs Bohinc from Kokrica near Kranj; here is her phone. Says the following: The four-member family wanted to ask for help and we found horribly that in this country, I quote, the price for the four-member family is slightly less than €400. For one refugee – this is even the official Cerar statement – at least EUR 385 per month per person. Crate four, if we were to convert this into a four-member family, it is more than a thousand 500 euros a month. It is said that we are already pushing our people into misery to give others a relatively high standard. But it's rational, is that fair? Not rational, not fair. That'd be pretty piggy. And in fact, even in this number, which is too low for migrants, not all of the costs, which my colleagues have presented several times in the last few days, have been very reasonable. And he can do it again if anyone objects. What do you need to do? Once and for all, we need to understand what I am saying from the beginning, that of course we need to help, but you help first by helping yourself to be able to help others at all. But you can't help others by endangering your own people socially or security. It's not a humanitarian policy, it's a false humanitarianism, it's a false solidarity. This is false solidarity and false humanitarianism, which has already led to people dying in Europe and people dying. And that makes a lot worse living than earning your fair share here. This must be done once and for all. That fake humanitarianism and easier solidarity. And we need to get things into those frameworks that this country can do. What needs to be done, however, is clear to everyone in this Chamber, as well as to everyone in Europe, there are only different political games. It should be helped by closing the borders and helping where these people come from; that would be rational. For that money when you live here as a migrant for a year, some families could survive somewhere in the Middle East for several years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u105	The Minister of Magic has the floor. Vesna Györkös Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. There has been no group rejection of requests for international protection and there will never be. Procedures are always conducted on an individual basis and the individual circumstances of each case are therefore assessed, as this is certainly an indisputable professional postulate, which also applies in the context of the Law on International Protection. We are also of the view that the non-sustainability or suspension, as governed by the Proposal for a Law on International Protection, is, in our opinion, appropriate and also consistent with European and international standards. The possibility that the decision issued in an accelerated procedure in the case of an action submitted does not have a suspensive effect is permitted by a procedural directive which is also in accordance with all international rules and also in accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. In any event, there is an accelerated procedure in the event of manifestly unfounded requests and it is also logical that there is no suspension, for example, in a situation where the person in the procedure does not claim persecution. The proposed regulation aims to ensure the prompt and effective treatment of applicants who obviously do not need international protection or who obviously do not meet the conditions for international protection. However, it should be pointed out that in the accelerated procedure only a request from an applicant who clearly does not meet the conditions may be addressed if one of the circumstances set out in Article 53 of the proposal is found. As such, therefore, the application may be rejected only after a full substantive assessment of the reasons given by the applicant in his application for international protection. In addition, we must stress once again that the negative decision made in the procedure of international protection does not yet mean that the alien will be returned to the country of origin; it is only to be dealt with in accordance with the Aliens Act, which provides him with all the security guards relating to return, including absolute respect for the principle of non-refoulement.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 71 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 78 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Here is a proposal in the form of an amendment, which certainly means a more decisive policy. In the law itself, we know the so-called integration part that speaks of an individual being offered education. Otherwise, we also have some concerns or proposals for additions there, but the goal is that these people can also be placed on the labour market as soon as possible. Therefore, we believe that the provision of accommodation and nutrition for a period of one year from the date of acquisition of the status is sufficient time. After one year for sure, an individual can already go to this so-called market and try to take care of himself in that part. This, in turn, refers to the part that follows later when we talk about an individual’s union with a family. We simply believe that a one - year period is somehow long enough for an individual to take care of himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the Law on International Protection, sometimes I have a feeling, especially this morning, that we are not even aware of what important things we are talking about. It is, however, a fact that many things that should be dealt with in due time have also been missed in the past. Many times today have been heard in this Chamber of the National Assembly condemning, perhaps urging people to go to the street, of course people who are certainly afraid of the future in the united Europe as well as in the Republic of Slovenia. Before that, I listened attentively to a colleague of Dr. Horvath, who is now not in the hall. I listened to him very carefully, but I don't know; Mr. is a real doctor, of course I respect him, I respect his profession, but I felt he wasn't having a serious discussion about the situation today in Slovenia that didn't start a month ago. One example of not speaking in mind is certainly the neighbouring country of Hungary. I remember last summer, when we reminded the Slovenian Democratic Party of things, of the laws, of the proposals to be adopted; and we came across a stormy response, a negative response, a response that is not going in the right direction. On the other hand, we have warned the Minister, the President of the Government, the Foreign Minister and someone else to at least follow the activities she has foreseen and carried out by neighbouring Hungary. At that time we were condemning, condemning one, one from outside, the President of the Government of neighbouring Hungary; but let us see today, when we often think and speak many times, as if this crisis would pass in the spring or this summer. The fact is that it will never again be the same as it was and that this migratory crisis will last for many years. That is why I think it is also necessary to say this honestly to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I think we're talking too loosely to talk too often like that. And the fact is, also, when most Members, including the current Prime Minister of the Government, were preparing for the elections in 2014, no one deepened into things that threatened the world, Europe and Slovenia. It is no coincidence that in neighbouring Hungary these things were understood, understood, and acted in a timely manner. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State, there was nothing overnight. This situation, which is now a fact, began before the year, two or three. Many things have been underestimated, many things have been misplaced, and many things have, according to local words, been hidden and not told, first of all as Members, as well as citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I think and I firmly believe that this is very irresponsible, because the consequences will be visible for several years in Slovenia and also in Europe. What they received as the greatest gift in the history of extremists in last year — a kind invitation to Germany and Merklov to come. It was the greatest gift to all those who organize these things. And the fact is, I think we have to say this once and for all, that the war in Syria is not an accident and that not only those who no longer have a home are coming to Europe and consequently to Slovenia. People come to Europe who do not want to live in tents but want to have apartments, cars, jobs and more. That's a fact. The big question is, are we talking about this law and a series of meetings in the past in the National Assembly, or have we even thought about it? Many who come to Europe and to Slovenia are also those who have no good intentions. Of course, as a member of the National Assembly, I am concerned. I am also concerned that we are late, that we are indecisive, and that we do not want to see the reality. Let's look at two key problems. When the budget for 2016 and 2017 was adopted last year, there were 100 mayors on the balcony here and perhaps others. In fact, it was clear what the situation was last year, what it would be like this year; it was not so willing that the Minister of Finance, Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of State, would find so much will and would have found a common language with one of the municipalities. Now the local community is raping you. But people who live in these local communities are often referred to as anxious people who do not want to receive people who come from a distance, with a different culture, with other habits, and often with bad intentions. That is why I think my call to the Minister, the Secretary of State, and above all to the President of the Government, I fear that this team, this is my personal opinion, is no longer strong enough to follow the pace of problems and also the actions that await us in the future. Colleagues and colleagues, maybe one of you just thought I wanted to be a little bit like him. But we are not talking about state roads, we are not talking about plumbing, we are not talking about new schools; we are talking all morning about our future – Slovenia, Europe and also people living in our country. If we do not want to admit it today, we will have to admit it sooner than later in the summer or autumn, with much greater problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u111	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 83 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 84 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? It's nobody again. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 89 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much, President, for your word. In this amendment, we want to define exactly what we said before, whether we have rights on one side and also obligations on the other. I think that some things need to be more concrete when it comes to obligations as well. In the existing proposal for a law, an applicant with recognised international protection is sufficient to attend education. In our view, it is very important to take some of this education away. Because it is different whether you come to an educational program, either to learn Slovenian language or to learn about culture, our culture, constitutional arrangements, and really follow it; or if you're just sitting there to spend time and knowing that if you don't have enough hours, then you won't get the allowance. This is all that in some way also sanctions the proposed amendment of the law. We believe that it would be more effective if, in the so-called law, a contract between the applicant on the one hand and, on the other hand, the competent ministry, where the applicant, after the end of the so-called educational programme, would also carry out a form of examination, a test of knowledge, where we could see to what extent his understanding is; whether he understands our legal arrangements; or whether he understands at least the basic language skills of our Slovenian language, or he also knows our culture. This is our amendment, and I really don't see the reason why it wouldn't be done here on the basis of other educational systems in the end with some verification. Perhaps the applicant needs some more time for this education, and even through such a test it would be possible to see whether this was sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u113	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 100 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 125 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u114	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the handling of the Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the examination of the Candidate Decision, which, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member for which the term of office has expired. Because he's a magician. Margareti Guček Zakošek, on 29 February 2016, terminated his term of office, the State Election Commission forwarded to the National Assembly the conclusion that the term of office of the Member would change to Mr Saša Tabakovic. The findings of the State Election Commission were considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the National Assembly. You've received the report. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! I would like to thank, on behalf of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, for the work done now by former Members, our former colleague Margareta Guček Zakošek and wish her, on this occasion on behalf of the Group Member, all the good in her future path. At the same time, once again, invite our colleague, Saš Tabaković, among us, and wish him to do his job as well as he did in his role as alternate Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u116	Would any of the Members like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. We vote on the following motion for a decision: Confirm Saša Tabakovic's mandate, born 20. 4. 1981, residing in Ljubljana, Erjavčeva road 5. We're voting. 79 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. I invite Mr Saša Tabakovic, my fellow Member, to join us again and to occupy his seat. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a President and members of the Fiscal Council. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Dr Dusan Maramor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u117	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for your word. The appointment of the President and members of the Fiscal Council is the final phase in the design of a system-wide framework for sound public finances. Slovenia is an exception to the current situation when we are the last one to have no Fiscal Council; and also to the way Slovenia has set up this system framework. For this system framework, constitutional change was crucial first, then the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act and now the decision to appoint members of the Fiscal Council. For all, a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly is required. I mention this because, with such a system, we are actually more papal than the pope; and this represents an extremely difficult task for the government and for me as Minister. The very general acceptance of the three members of the Fiscal Council should be ensured. This is certainly the case with potential candidates for members and presidents, which is reflected in the response to public calls. As you know, we issued our first call on August 7th last year, as soon as the Fiscal Rule Act was passed. The first call was then extended, as we did not receive the relevant applications, and then we went to another call in November, which we had to renew for the same reason as the first call until 18 January of this year. After this extension of the invitation to tender, we received 10 applications. Of the applications received, according to what is required by law from the Fiscal Council, three applications were, in our opinion, the most appropriate. As one who was responsible for proposing candidates to the government, I was very pleased that we had received good and qualified candidates. These are three Doctors of Science; Dr. Damjan Kozamernik, Dr. Marjan Senjur and Dr. Davorin Krkuk. These are extremely good candidates who meet the formal conditions laid down in Article 8 of the Law as regards the required education and expertise, as they are experts in macroeconomics and public finances and experience. For these extremely important functions, it is necessary to have very specific knowledge. Someone who does not have econometric skills cannot be a member of the Fiscal Council because the assessment of the production gap, the structural deficit, the macroeconomic effects and the public financial consequences are linked to econometric calculations. Experience is also crucial for successful work in the Fiscal Council, of course, as it must understand how the country works and a member of the Fiscal Council must also have a reputation. Since broad acceptance is important for candidates, we have been particularly careful about this, so it is very important that I can say at home that all the experts we propose have participated either in an independent institution such as the Bank of Slovenia or in the right and left governments; therefore they should probably be acceptable to most political parties. Your Honor, allow me to remind you of what the fiscal world is and what the fiscal world has to do. The Fiscal Council shall assess the public financial policy documents submitted to the National Assembly by the Government in terms of long-term sustainability and compliance with fiscal rules. At the same time, the Fiscal Council has other tasks, such as defining what are the exceptional circumstances in which it can deviate from the basic fiscal rule. In short, members of the Fiscal Council have an extremely important task, so they must have the necessary knowledge because otherwise they cannot make a competent decision. Allow me to present from this point of view the key features of individual candidates. First of all, Damian Cosamerican, who is proposed to be president of the Fiscal Council. Mr Kozamernik is currently the main economist at the SID Bank, and before that he was Director of the Bank of Slovenia Analysis Research Centre from 2004 to 2013. Its special area is models that assess the public financial implications, and he is a doctorate at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland. The next one we propose is Dr. Marjan Senjur. We know him more or less; nevertheless, let me summarize some of the key things. He was President of the Strategic Council for the Economic Development of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2006 and 2007 and between 2012-2013, President of the First Fiscal Council. The last member proposed is Dr. Davorin Kruk from the Faculty of Economics and Business of the University of Maribor. He is currently acting as Dean and Head of the Institute for Economic Diagnosis and Prognosis. Your Honor! In my opinion and in the opinion of the Government, you have a very good choice. We have talked very closely with all the candidates, and I must say that I had a very good impression that their election will ensure good control over Slovenian public finances. That is why I sincerely want the candidates to receive the necessary support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u118	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In the United Left, we voted against the Fiscal Rule Act. We were the only party that didn't support this marriage. Why? We voted against it because it is clear that the fiscal rule is inappropriate for countries without their own currency; as it is clear that our fiscal rule is even stricter than what the European Union demanded. This is a theory; in practice, this means that there will be no increase in wages for nurses, soldiers or police officers that everyone would like, especially if the government still reduces taxes on the direction of the Chamber of Commerce. When we adopted the original law, we proposed certain amendments in the United Left, amendments that would mitigate the consequences of this law. For example, one of these changes was the composition of the Fiscal Council, where we requested at least one member of the Fiscal Council to be called by representative unions, because public servants are the ones most suffering from budget cuts and, on the other hand, lower government spending affects employment in the private sector. Therefore, it is necessary to include working representatives or representatives of working organisations who will pay the maximum price for the implementation of the fiscal rule in the composition of this system, because this holiday is not a simple technical body, as is often represented by the government and the ministry; it is a body that will, in the end, also politically guide the work of the financial ministry or the fiscal policy of the State. Since there is no representative in the current composition who is at least close to any working organisation and would represent the interests of employees in the public and private sectors, we cannot support this composition today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u120	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, in its name mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u121	Good-bye! Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We passed the Fiscal Rule Act in July 2015. All our four votes were given at the time for the law to be passed; and another part of the opposition. I had already warned myself about the shortcomings and inconsistencies of marriage and that there would be problems with law in real life, especially because certain things were not being met. You told me that everything would be regulated in the Public Finance Act, which should be adopted within six months of the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act – January 2016. March 2016 – there is no law yet. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in its work relating to the adoption of the State budget will also need to be completely revised. There is no solution to this at the table either. You've been looking for the fiscal world for over half a year, you've repeated the invitation three times. Why the calls were repeated, we don't know. Clearly, we do not deserve the opposition's answers. All you expect from us is a "yes" vote. You don't have our four votes for this component of the fiscal world. We would expect to be invited, at least before the opening of the procedure in the National Assembly, to a discussion where you, a respected coalition, could explain the valid and reasoned reasons for the proposal or proposals; we could raise our questions and concerns. Unfortunately, you've chosen a different path. It would be irresponsible of you, a respected coalition, to be irresponsible of the people you are proposing; and irresponsible of public finances if the Fiscal Council today does not receive a two-thirds majority. I believe you are not so irresponsible, so I expect the Fiscal Council to be supported today and I wish him a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u122	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will, of course, unanimously support all three proposed candidates for members of the Fiscal Council for a simple reason in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, because we understand this step as the last step in the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act; and thus as a last step in this state-of-the-art act of stabilising the public finances of the Republic of Slovenia. Not a coalition, not an individual parliamentary group; but the Republic of Slovenia. The process of appointing candidates or members of the Fiscal Council has been extremely demanding and it is also true that it has been so demanding and that it also needs the required two-thirds majority. I would also like to point out, or recall, that this required two-thirds majority as a compromise proposal, in cooperation with the opposition, has been introduced into the Fiscal Rule Act because we expected opposition parties to be so responsibly and financially in the last step as part of their vote. Let me remind you that the whole process of call and selection, which was carried out as mandated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has been very transparent. Finally, this is confirmed by all three proposed candidates. All three are highly qualified for this very difficult function, which should or should be performed within the framework of the functioning of the Fiscal Council. I also point out that such candidates, such individuals as the Republic of Slovenia, are not around every corner. Those who will not give these support today must ask what profiles and where they expect to be found in the Republic of Slovenia, and take responsibility for this too, not until the current government or the current coalition, but to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u124	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on its behalf, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. The procedure for regulating public finances and balancing public finances began in 2012 when the second Janšev government was in power. At that time a constitutional amendment was prepared, which was then implemented during the next government, the government of Alenka Bratušek. What is enshrined in the Constitution is solid and provides the basis for everyone who actually manages public finances to make sure that we have a budget balance. Then there was the preparation of an implementing law, which was made on the basis of a constitutional provision. The Government of Mira Cerar, or Minister Maramor, has worked hard here, there has been a lot of coordination, but this implementing law has deformed this constitutional provision, allowing for a deficit there and then when it was not necessary, and, secondly, has considerably loosened the constitutional provision in defining specific circumstances. Therefore, we did not contribute to the implementing law of our votes. We now have the next step on the basis of this implementing law, now we are voting on a troika that will judge budgetary acts in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law. It took a long time for the government to come before the National Assembly with the law. The tender procedure was repeated and extended, according to Minister Moromir. Apparently, at least that was how it was to be understood at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, that it had been extended in order to have some other candidates applied; it is said that those who, at least so as to be understood, had been addressed by Minister Maramor. And as a result, we have actually received suitable candidates for the government. The government needs 60 votes for these three candidates, a two-thirds majority of all Members. Regrettably, however, the Government, which formally proposes this proposal, has not tried so hard to invite the opposition representatives to a protocol meeting at least before its decision to elect representatives. It wasn't even done. In this case, however, it is the Fiscal Council's relatively long term mandate, longer than that of the Member State; that is to say, it is a mandate that will at least extend to the next government. And the opposition's expectations, as regards the invitation to draw up and draft a proposal, are very well founded. The fact that the opposition was not invited to prepare means that the government has chosen candidates solely in its image; as was the case with SDH, DUTB, the authorities of RTV, the European Court of Human Rights and, as is predicted, with constitutional judges who will still be on the agenda; in short, wherever possible. The systematic exclusion of the opposition, in particular the largest opposition party, cannot contribute to transparency or transparency and even less to the quality of the choice and work of the authorities or institutions. The latest cases we are facing — such as the sale of Adrie Airways and Paloma — and all these problems with the management of state assets confirm this. The fiscal council is too important an institution for the government to afford, and the state is given a staff force that is solely government-wide. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support this proposal, we will vote against it, and the burden of this decision is entirely on the shoulders of the government or its coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u126	The text shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franz Jurša, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, we have sent an important message on Slovenia's commitment to fiscal discipline, which has positive effects on the country's credit ratings and on the interest rate at which the state is indebted. The level of the interest rate at which we owe ourselves is extremely important, since a small reduction may already represent a large part of the money left to us, for example, for health care, education and pensions. The Republic of Slovenia must recover quickly and we can say that we are on the right track. Despite the higher economic growth and the smaller number of unemployed, we must fulfil the commitment of budgetary discipline, which will be made essential by the role of the Fiscal Council as well. The Fiscal Council established with a view to independent control of the state’s public financial policy will, inter alia, assess the sustainability and consistency of the public financial policy with fiscal rules. It will accept the ongoing resolution of the state budget, municipal budgets and health budgets and pensions and assess whether circumstances have arisen or ceased to allow for a derogation from the medium-term balance. The evaluations he will prepare will be forwarded to the Government and also to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, we are far behind in setting up this last phase of the system's public finances framework. In November, the government reiterated the invitation to tender for members of the Fiscal Council, which was renewed in December. Ten candidates applied for this call, and all the candidates registered met the legal conditions. All three candidates for members of the Fiscal Council who are proposed by the Government under Article 9 on the fiscal rule to the National Assembly are considered appropriate in the Desus Group, so they will receive all 11 votes from us. These are macro-economic and public finance experts who are shaped by knowledge of macroeconomic forecasting methods and estimates of cyclical public finances. In the Desus Group, we call on all Members to conclude with the confirmation of these three candidates the last step of the fiscal rule so that the composite Fiscal Council can effectively monitor public finances during their consolidation and thereby contribute significantly to the stability and development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u128	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that politics will once again drive out good candidates for the Fiscal Council, we must take full responsibility, given that we accept it with a two-thirds majority, because today we will not get the Fiscal Council. One solution, if politics were wise, would be not to vote today, but to put the vote on another day and to try to find yet another solution in the coalition and the opposition. However, there are only six members of the Social Democrats, but since we are a responsible party, we will take this responsibility and support all three candidates, and everyone else must take their part in the responsibility. I regret, however, that politics in this way is due to negligence, slump, the inability to negotiate such a candidate of repulsion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u130	I conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I must admit, I have been very interested in accompanying your candidates, who will be appointed to the Fiscal Council as one of the last bodies to complete the project of a golden fiscal rule. I would like to draw the attention of the Slovenian public to the incredible practice you are doing. First of all, you tell Slovenian soldiers that because of the fiscal rule they will never be able to have a higher salary, that you will no longer be able to finance all three pillars of defense that are urgently needed, so that you will not be in the story we had a few days ago about the 2nd floor, that you will not be able to finance yourself in any way, that there is no part of our assets for the 2nd indent, because we have a golden fiscal rule. I would like to inform the Slovenian public at this time of the following. Firstly, Slovenia still has 12 billion state assets, at this point in the background of a difficult fight for Forum 21 members who have somehow rolled this bank hole to re-consolidate their assets and come after it at several times lower prices, and this is during the period when you are talking about the golden fiscal rule in your way. This is also your way of appointing these three members of the Fiscal Council that you appoint. I'd call it next. Albert Einstein, I think in 1943, when he was teaching at Princeton University, wrote one of his aphorisms. One of the aphorisms was the Fascination of repeating and naming the same people and expecting different results. You appoint planning economists who have always defended Slovenia's national interest, that part of the former political Communist elite has acquired this state property and is also exploiting it. And these are the stories. And these stories continue. As my colleague, Boštjan Marko Turk, wrote days ago that the entire caravan travels further in the direction of the movie, the Marathons run an honorary circle, where you sell this coffin several times more, and that is the story. That is why anyone who is a sane person who understands, an ass who has already gone on ice three times and does not want to be a citizen of this Republic of Slovenia, where in a few years I may be able to monitor the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system and so on. People like Marjan Senjur and other quasi-planning economists, people created by Slovenian media and Slovenian quasi-economic university, see, they will never be able to protect and bring Slovenia into some normal waters of Western serious economies. This is why I will not support this because I am responsible because I have also followed the history of the economy because I am not from this economic school. I'm lucky that other professors taught me economics. And look, anyone who's sane today can't support it. You, as Albert Einstein said, name always the same people, always the same marathoners from the film that run the circle of honor, and with them you expect different results. That's impossible. I also hope that the Slovenian public monitoring this to remember this date today is March 1st, the beginning of spring, and look here in 5 years to remember what the bank hole will be in 5 years. But five years from now, respected colleagues, there will be no room for manoeuvre as you had in 2008, when you began to destroy the second Janša government until your term of office. At the time, Slovenia had room for manoeuvre, which owed 22% of the gross social product. When you finish your term, if nothing bad happens, we'll be at 90%, and there'll be no more maneuverable space for marathoners in the next round. Then it will be over and then the story of some serious Slovenia will end. At the moment, with other people, Slovenia has the opportunity to come to the most developed countries, to step on a train called the Fourth Industrial Revolution and to take sides with those highly developed countries. You said at this point that you don't want this to go to another marathon run, and that's, we can say, a burial of this country. Therefore, as I said before, I will not and will never vote for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u132	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you, President, for your word. In the positions of the coalition's sentinel groups, it was said that the opposition was guilty despite not knocking on our door. And to refresh your memory, I will read your coalition contract. The main mission of this government is therefore to restore people's confidence in the country and its core pillars of state-run action, political, social, cultural, social, financial, economic and other. More. The new political action must be decisive and unrelenting to all those who would in any way want to use politics for their own interests and thus try to threaten the well-being of people and Slovenia today. And you also have a special point in the coalition contract – The investigation of bank holes and the definition of liability. Your Honor, you took two hours, but you still didn't know how to count. Once you couldn't count to 46, today you won't be able to count to 60, and then, as I said before, without knocking on the door of any opposition party, you say the opposition will be guilty. Respectful, what you have brewed, eat! It's the first time you've ever squandered. You've had a second call, 10 candidates, you've chosen three to your advantage, so today's failure will be attributed to you and you won't blame yourself for this opposition. This government is thus hiding behind some independence, expertise, and apoliticalism. Well, let's see if we can get a glimpse of these candidates' résumés. Mr. Cosamer. From 2001 to 2013 analyst and even director of the Bank of Slovenia Analysis Research Centre. The one who didn't know how to make order until now sends a man to the fiscal world. Mr. Marjan Senjur. The President of the Fiscal Council in 2009-2012 when we had the worst indicators in all areas. And this gentleman would like to be president of the Fiscal Council again of your choosing. Dr. Davorin Kkruk was almost everything, so he almost also had a function in the Fiscal world. In the Fiscal Council we would set political and professionally challenged people to be able to praise the President of the Government, how he really has nothing to do with the Fiscal Council, not the NLB, not the SDH, not the DUTB, not the Bank of Slovenia, with nothing. And he'll say he has nothing to do with the government if it goes as far as it goes in this country. But as for his financial knowledge, he made it clear yesterday that he clearly cannot distinguish between what is public debt and what is sovereign debt. And we are doing even more as an average citizen, not as Members of Parliament, in the eye and in the misunderstanding of how the same people have been circulating for the past twenty years. And some have gone a little quiet, and today you're taking them back on track. In Parliament, in the first place, the new face, and in the banking and economic sectors, the old core of the so-called old boys, which this government, which is so hiding behind the judicial and banking systems or reforms, forgives and is back on the pedestal. The same names, but they also have very strong representatives in the government. Let us see, Mr Maramor, Mr Dragonja, they are always in some such and different relationship with people at a bad bank, NLB, the Bank of Slovenia and individual economic circles. But this government is fortunate to have a migrant crisis, as more is said about the migrant crisis, it can be called and recruited more subtly into banking and economic systems. On the other hand, colleague Logar, as chairman of the commission of inquiry, has no chance of getting any information. Because of such anomalies, which you have cooked for yourself, I cannot support the proposed candidates for the Fiscal Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u134	The text is given by Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u135	Dear Mr. Lisec! The information you provided was wrong because Mr Kozamernik was Director of the Bank of Slovenia Analysis Research Centre from 2004 to 2013. And he was the one who announced the economic crisis in 2009, which was why he could not get another mandate from Mr Gaspari. An excellent analyst, and I must say, I'm impressed. You also left out the fact that Marjan Senjur was the President of the Strategic Council for the Economic Development of the Government of Slovenia from 2006 to 2007, when Janša was the government. And, of course, he was not the President of the First Fiscal Council from 2009 to 2013, but from 2012 to 2013. I would like to reiterate that, given the situation, these are extremely good candidates. Of the ten reported, we collected these three because they were the only three, they had a PhD in science and they adequately covered the area of macroeconomics and public finances. There were two more with the doctorate, but one with the law, and the other with the business department, and it's impossible to cover this area. So this selection was essentially made at the most professional possible level, so I think that these statements, which have now been mentioned, are not correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u136	Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I now read the data, the proposal for a candidate for president and members of the Fiscal Council for a period of five years. And he writes to Mr Kozamernik, Director of the Bank of Slovenia Analysis Research Centre 2004–2013 and a consultant or analyst in this centre 2001–2003. I said nicely that he was in the Bank of Slovenia from 2001 to 2013 and I did not lie. As far as Mr Senjur is concerned, I have said what it says, the President of the Fiscal Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 2009-2012, and there is no record in this explanation that he was President of the Strategic Council. We received this from the National Assembly, and I had this information at my disposal. Although I could also have access to the data that the uncle of Google detects, and to the individual links of these three gentlemen with certain other names from Mr. Marble and Mr. Dragonje that I do not list all those that circulate within the Bank of Slovenia and NLB. So, Madam President, I came from the document of the National Assembly and not from other documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u138	I gave you my word for procedural, but not for discussion. It's purely procedural abuse. I'll give you a warning first. Do you still have a procedure? I note the fact that I gave the first warning. Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u139	Dear President, there is no need for bad will. Mr. Maramor, or Minister of Finance, responded to my reading of the national choir material. If this material is not correct, Madam President, I propose a five-minute recess to check that the services of the National Assembly are correct. Because if it's not the right data, then you've done something wrong for the entire National Assembly because you've given us the wrong information. However, if this information is correct, it is obvious that it is not the data available to the Minister of Finance. I repeat, no need for bad will. I just suggested that it be checked that the data of the National Assembly is correct and official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u140	You're deliberating again. What the Minister said, he said during the debate. At the stage of the debate, it may respond to any other debate. However, you have not been reported for discussion and therefore you cannot discuss it through a procedural procedure. That's why you got a warning. And that's what's important about the whole thing. Procedurally, I presume? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think that such a way of managing a meeting as you do is not appropriate when any of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party or any other opposition party tells any truth. Comrade Lisec had nothing to do with the order of the meeting so that they could give him a warning. He had nothing to do with the order of the meeting. Because that is why the Member should be admonished. He didn't break up, he didn't jump into words, he talked because you gave him your word. As regards the procedural proposal, he also did the right thing by addressing it to you and telling you that it is in the materials submitted by the Government to the National Assembly. He was quoting that material. If the coalition members and the presidents, that is, you, the President, are not reading the material to determine whether he has abused any procedural proposal and used it substantively, then this is a serious problem for the management of the meeting. The President must be a little more prepared than the others and look at these matters. I also propose that we move forward, Mr President, because perhaps there will be another topic at this meeting that you do not use these radical decisions, which are solely for the purpose of, I will say, inappropriate discrediting and unnecessary discrediting of Members of our Group. If they speak inaccurately, any parliamentary group may object in the form of a replica. But my colleague Lisec did not speak incorrectly because he read exactly what the minister had forwarded to the Government and Government in the National Assembly. If you are to give warnings for the reasoned performances of Members based on the documents of the proposer, that is to say the Government, then we are close to the dictatorship. That is to say, you will order Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and direct them to discuss at the meeting of the National Assembly and how to formulate proposals. And that's like somewhere in North Korea. I don't think there's any need for this and you're leading the meeting decently to the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u142	I don't think there's any need to be offended. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We will vote on each candidate separately. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 9, paragraph 6, of the Fiscal Rule Act, each candidate proposed will be appointed if at least two thirds of all Members vote for him, 60 or more. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Damjan Kozamer as President of the Fiscal Council. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 21. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision appointing Dr Marjan Senjur as a member of the Fiscal Council. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 22. (The vote was 53.)(against 22.) I take it that the decision is not taken. I am also putting to the vote a motion for a decision appointing Dr Davorin Kkuk as a member of the Fiscal Council. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour and 22 votes in favour. I take it that the decision is not taken. Since the proposed votes have not received the required majority of the votes cast, I will immediately inform the Government. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the discharge of a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u143	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Before you is a proposal for the dismissal of a member of the Board of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which was adopted by the proposing Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 75th session. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This proposal proposes that a member of the Council of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, Tina Zajec, now Osojnik, be dissolved prematurely on the basis of a withdrawal statement. A member of the Council of Tina Zajec, now Osojnik, made a withdrawal declaration in accordance with provision 12.f of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, that a member of the Board of the Agency should be released prematurely if so required. The members of the Board of the Agency shall be dismissed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed the dismissal of a member of the Council, together with a proposal to appoint a new member of the Council, because it considers that both proposals are connected and that this is the only way to ensure the continuity of work. The role of the members of the Council is important and specific, since the members of the Council are also members of the Senate who decide on individual matters under the responsibility of the Agency in the administrative procedure in which the acts with which the proceedings before the Agency are concluded are issued. This is precisely why, and in order to avoid the possible non-conclusion of the world, continuity must be ensured and a new member appointed in addition to resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u144	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly and to submit a proposal for a decision. Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me say that we will support this proposal for resolution. It is high time that this proposal is supported, because almost three years have passed since Tina Rabbit's resignation. Ma'am has stepped down from six. In May 2013, the call for employment was made in April 2014, one year after the resignation. There have been enough timely applications, but only on 25 February 2016 did the Government's proposal come to the Mandate-Volution Commission. It is said that almost three years have passed from the derogation to the settlement, in an institution which is important for the management and determination of concentrations and similar matters. Neither the government nor the government of Mira Cerar have done their job responsibly, for all these procedures should have been completed long ago. I'm surprised the Minister of Economy took a year and a half to figure out that he needed a man here who would be happy to do the work he was entrusted with. We can only wonder what the quality of work was at that time, in those two and a half years, almost three years when a candidate who did not want to do it, who did not want to do it, would probably go elsewhere, there were such and different requirements and also the necessary decisions. It is difficult here to shoulder the responsibility of the Minister of State to do his work so recklessly in this work. I think that the government coalition should also say something about these cases, so that not only Members of the SDS or other opposition parties will determine what is wrong and why things do not work. The reminders coming from the European Union are probably self-evident. The deadlines or correction of transitional provisions in laws that only extend the validity of acts are probably based on what I have said, including for this coalition a self-evident act. We have also probably faced such cases in the field of economics. Your Honor! I think that members of the coalition also need to critically judge the work of their ministers, especially if we get on the bench to decide on such proposals, which have expired almost three years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u146	I conclude the presentation of the Group's position. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počovalska.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u147	President-in-Office, Mr Head of the Group of Members, Members and Members of Parliament! As regards the time delay, I have already explained one part of the reasons in the introduction. However, it should also be clarified that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology had to carry out two tendering procedures, since the first candidate selected at the first tender procedure only after the Government had already proposed to the National Assembly its appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u148	This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision which will resolve a member in the world of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, Mrs Tina Zajec, now Osojnik. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 77 were voted against and no one was present. (There were 77 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council. Mag. Borivoj Kos submitted an application for early release from the seat of a member of the Broadcasting Council, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 102 of the Media Act, giving a reason for his early release from the seat of a member of the Broadcasting Council. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a regulation amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council, by which the mag is released from the seat of the member. Borovy Kos. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 76 voted against. (There were 76 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) I take it the council has passed the decree. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on discharges and appointments of President or President, Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision is prepared on the basis of two amendments to the Decision on the establishment of the number of seats of members of the Working Groups of the National Assembly and on the establishment of groups of representatives of the Vice-Presidents and Presidents of the Working Bodies of the National Assembly, on 10 February 2016 and 26 February 2016, as well as the proposals of the Group of Non-Aligned Members and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The draft decision was published on the e-club. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Would you like a word with the Members? Not at all. I then conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision on discharges and appointments of the President or President and Vice-Presidents or Vice-Presidents of the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 79 were voted against and no one was present. (There were 79 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Friday, 4. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Media. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present and 49 votes against. (There were 49 votes in favour.)(against 2.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on International Protection under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 16. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. With the amendment to Article 16, we propose that the draft law clearly stipulates that officials dealing with unaccompanied children must be additionally qualified to deal with children and that children must be informed orally and in writing of their rights and duties. This is a solution or provision already in force in the current legislation and it is in itself unacceptable that this provision should now be deleted by this proposal. This requires both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and Directive 2013/32 itself, which clearly stipulates in Article 25 that Member States provide, I quote: "If a unaccompanied minor is interviewed in person with regard to his application for international protection, this interview shall be conducted by a person who has the necessary knowledge of the specific needs of minors." End of quote. So that this amendment proposes nothing but simple respect for international acts and in the United Left we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u150	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 58. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 52. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 34. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 52. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 43. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u151	These are so-called border procedures, which we have already talked about a lot today. With the amendment in the United Left, we propose to maintain the current regime because we oppose the introduction of so-called border procedures whose main purpose is to decide in an accelerated procedure on the admissibility of asylum seekers at the border and, of course, also on the basis of the group rejection of applicants. This may be a potential violation of several international acts, threatens us in some way a new case deleted at European level, and here we must call on all present to act in a state-of-the-art and not to put Slovenia in a situation which, of course, would be ethically extremely controversial and, on the other hand, would cast a very large stain on the international image of Slovenia, so that we will absolutely vote in favour of this amendment in Slovenia and in some way expect the support of the coalition as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u152	There are 74 Members and Members voting for 9 votes against 64. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 64.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. By Article 45, we first decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 45(1). We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 45(2). We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour and 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. First, we decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 49(1). We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present and 21 votes against 53. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 49(2). An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u153	Article 49 is another provision which touches more vulnerable groups, says minors without a escort. Here, in particular, in the draft law, it is in fact allowed to decide whether minors should be dealt with quickly. We are correcting this with the amendment and writing that, in fact, when deciding on unaccompanied minors, these procedures should always be carried out on a regular basis, which is, of course, in accordance with the principle of the child's benefit and in particular with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Convention on the Rights of the Child already mentioned. In addition, the new tenth paragraph provides further respect for the 2011 Constitutional Court's decision, which clearly states that the rejected applicant must have at his disposal a specific time limit for the voluntary fulfilment of the obligation to leave the country. This is an element highlighted by police officers, voluntary organisations and experts in the field and should urgently be corrected. So we do this with our amendment and, of course, we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u154	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 63. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 51. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u155	This article has the exact same effect in practice as if quotas were written in the law. This article proposes or is the basis for the group rejection of applicants, whether or not it actually concerns people who need protection. By adopting this law, an application for international protection may be rejected by anyone who comes from either a safe country or who has come to Slovenia from another Member State of the European Union. It is therefore an arbitrary decision of the authorities to whom they will grant protection and to whom they will not. As I have already mentioned in the debate today, if the applicant comes to us from Croatia and Italy or if, for example, he has abstained from coming to Slovenia, for example, in Greece, his application will be rejected. Of course, it is clear that every refugee meets this criterion, so that in fact there are very few people who would fall under the beneficiaries of international protection. In the United Left, we have always warned that it is exclusively a humanitarian crisis, that Slovenia is obliged to respect international commitments and that all who need protection must also be granted this. Of course, we strongly oppose mass deportations without any treatment of rights. For this reason, we propose deleting provisions that undoubtedly constitute violations of international asylum and humanitarian law. But we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u156	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, I explain that we have amended Article 51 on the working body. Article 51 is the result of a regulation or directive which gives a tax ruling, in which cases an application may be rejected. Of course, it is not explicitly stated in the Dublin Regulation, but in line with the conclusions of the Council of Europe, we have also introduced an amendment to the possibility that it may be rejected if the applicant comes from a secure European country. Given the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, and given that we do not yet have the right legal practice in this area and to avoid possible violations of international law and actions against the Republic of Slovenia, we will now support the amendment of the United Left, but we will re-amend it in the third reading, because we do not support their proposal to delete the third indent, and we will coordinate it accordingly, because it is also not in accordance with international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u158	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 18. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 65. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 68. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 68.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. First, we decide on the first amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 70(1). An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you. I'll keep both amendments together, given that it's a meaningful connection. The proposal for an international protection law has one key anti-constitution, and this is what is happening in this Article. This is the abolition of the suspension of the complaint. What does that mean in practice? Slovenia will reject a certain number of applicants in accelerated border procedures and these applicants will have no effective legal remedy to appeal against such decisions. Simply because they will leave the country before they can actually file such a complaint. We know that it is very short-term, we know that it is also very difficult to provide translators in such a situation at this stage and also adequate legal assistance in order to write such complaints in a timely manner. However, this would not have a major impact after all, as it would be virtually impossible to bring these complaints to an end, because they will in fact no longer be in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia when the court decides to do so. In short, it is not only anti-constitution, but also something that is contrary to the directive itself, which makes it very clear that there must be a legal remedy in the law that in some way protects the rights of asylum seekers. And this legal remedy is, of course, this and is provided for in Article 46 of this Directive to remain in the territory of the State until the expiry of the period within which they may exercise their right. The bill does not allow this because these hands are completely at stake. In short, the minimum time limit for leaving the country is seven days, says theoretically it is possible to dismiss such an applicant within seven days. However, the deadline for lodging a complaint is 8 days. In a way, we are in a paradoxical situation where you may be expelled before you can actually file this complaint. The second amendment, however, refers to the possibility of a complaint to the Supreme Court, which is, of course, terminated. We have seen in recent practice that almost most of the Supreme Court's judgments have gone to the benefit of the complainants, that there have been problems and irregularities in these proceedings. Now, too, this legal guardian will no longer be able to do so. Here, too, we are faced with grave violations of the Constitution and other international legal acts, so it is necessary to stop, consider and do the right thing. We will therefore vote in favour of this amendment in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u160	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SMC Group shall be mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u161	In the SMC Group, we will support this amendment. This is because we follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which says that the suspension effects are not admissible in all the procedures listed in the law and are permissible in the case, and this is also permitted by the Directive, in the case of accelerated procedures. We will support this amendment so that it can be amended in the third reading and regulated as provided for in the Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u162	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 19. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 70(2). We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 65. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 71. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 65. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 78(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left Group shall become irrelevant to the same Article under point 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 51. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 78(2). We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 63. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 63.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 83(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left Group shall become irrelevant to the same Article under point 2. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 52. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 83(2). We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 66. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 84(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD to the same Article under point 2 shall become irrelevant. We vote. 74 Members and Members were present and 7 were voted against and 66 were voted against. (There were seven votes in favour.)(against 66.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 84(2). We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 57 were voted against and 15 were present. (There were 57 votes in favour.)(against 15.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 89. We're voting. There were 76 Members and Members present, 18 for them and 53 for them. (There were 18 votes in favour.)(against 53.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 100. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 62. (There were 8 votes in favour.)(against 62.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to Article 125(1). We're voting. 77 Members were present and 3 were voted against. (There were 3 votes in favour.)(against 73.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 125(2). We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present, 53 of whom were voted against and 17. (There were 53 votes in favour.)(against 17.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the proposer of the draft law has already proposed, in a supplementary explanation, that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, and we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. In the United Left, we will vote against this decision because it is more than obvious from the very treatment of the labour force and not least at today's meeting of the National Assembly that this law is far from fit for adoption. On the one hand, they open up on almost every side, almost every article, if not suspected, sometimes even clear signs of unconstitutionality or conflict with the European or international legal order. On the other hand, we have seen that we need to take some time to think about certain articles, as we have now done with the amendments we have proposed in the United Left Group. Some corrections have been adopted, but far from being suitable for this law, it would actually be something we hope to put into our legal order. There remain provisions which are potentially controversial, which may be brought before the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice of the European Union or, last but not least, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. So I propose that we take some more time to sleep through these articles, to consider what we have learned from the debate, and not least what we have proposed with amendments in the United Left, both on the Committee and today, and to do this debate or third reading at the next regular meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u164	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you, President, for your word. The law before us certainly does not reflect what should actually be in force in this country at present. The fact is that in some other countries, which are significantly better than our country, so-called asylum legislation has already been sharpened for the second time. We have been calling on the Government for months to come up with a proposal that will go in the direction of tightening asylum legislation, and this has not happened. Today we witnessed another strange matter. The Minister assured us for about 15 minutes that Article 51 is in line with all directives at the international level and other regulations, while then the coalition simply throws this article out. And that is also the only bright point of this bill. We cannot support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor can we, because we are aware of what kind of country we are currently living in, what is the situation of our citizens and, above all, that we are opposed to helping those who do not need help at the expense of those who need help. Even when you give this article 51 out of law, that's exactly what you're doing. That's not solidarity. It's about getting new voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u166	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 21. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A third consideration of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly on Friday, 4. 3. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which these amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin in relation to the management of state property, the recruitment of state-owned companies and the punishment of those responsible for the bank hole. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 50. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenka Bratušek in connection with the management of state property and staffing in state-owned enterprises. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 50. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the Centre for Foreigners, Asylum Houses and Exhibitions and common costs. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The costs for asylum seekers to be clear, not for other migrants, but for asylum seekers, were the subject of my question to the President of the Government. It is clear that the coalition wants to deceive the Slovenian taxpayer in one way or another with the mathematical exercise. That's why I asked the Prime Minister about these costs. I expected him to say these costs correctly. The President of the Government didn't say them right. I took them myself through your document, a document adopted by the Government and obtained information which has also been publicly published that one asylum seeker costs the country an average monthly of a thousand 300 and a few euros. This number was later confirmed by the finance minister, who in fact denied the Prime Minister of the Government. After all, he said the numbers that I was saying. Nevertheless, it seems to me that even after today's debate over the law on international protection, where we have also discussed these costs, there is a real possibility that we can discuss this once again. It is not acceptable for an asylum applicant to cost the country a thousand 300 euros, but we have our citizens, with minimum wages and pensions, who do not reach a third of that amount. I call on you to vote in favour. If you have any argument that my numbers do not hold, you will support this proposal and we will be able to come up with your arguments. I'm just going to take the vote against it as, what can I say, further concealment. If you think you're right about any smaller numbers, word for word, or if you're asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u168	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 50. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Dr Vinko Gorenak's question on the costs for applicants for international protection. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 50. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Andreja Širclja in connection with the procedure for the simplified connection of Probanka and Factor Bank to the Company for the Management of Bank Claims. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 47. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to the question of the question of Vialeta Tomić on the installation of six juvenile asylum seekers without the assistance of adults. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Madam President. What happened at the France Prešern Gymnasium in Kranj is unacceptable and unheard. As we have already heard, parents and 24 teaching workers have prevented the accommodation of six young asylum seekers without the presence of adults. This is about children aged 10 to 14 years. All those who have ever had children know well how sensitive these years are and how they may be in large, almost adult calves hiding vulnerable tender babies. Moreover, if they are left homeless, without parents, without anyone who understands their language, it is so clear that we should show generosity and solidarity toward such children. Fear and hatred have no place when we talk about children. Just yesterday we heard a round of applause for the children's action. It is also for children who may be other races, different colors of skin, different religions. The children of the world are children. And if we want to call ourselves a man of kindness, then we must be human primarily to children, no matter where they come from and whose they are. In short, such behaviour is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution and also to educational standards, as the Basic School Act in Article 10 states that children who are foreign nationals or stateless persons who reside in the Republic of Slovenia have the right to compulsory primary education under the same conditions as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The 24 teachers of the France Prešern Gymnasium violated the basic principles and ethics of their profession, acted against the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and, above all, opposed the values of solidarity, against racism and democracy. In order for such cases of intolerance to never happen again, please support my proposal and let us discuss this. Thank you for your votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u170	We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 10 for them and 44 for them. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Magi. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on Mr Jožef Horvat's question about accommodation centres in Slovenia, with special emphasis on the accommodation center in Lendava Municipality. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for a little while. Members of the New Slovenia Group will, of course, support this proposal. Yesterday, when I asked the Minister about the location of the accommodation centres, about the capacity of these centres in Slovenia, with particular emphasis on the accommodation centre in the municipality of Lendava, I could honestly see that one in-depth, honest debate in the National Assembly would for the first time be of particular benefit to the Minister or to this government. This government is obviously closing its eyes and still doesn't see that thousands of immigrants have become permanent, and not just this month, for this year, I'm probably afraid, for a decade. If the leaders of our country are not able to call us all together, all political parties, then let us, Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia do so. Let us unify our positions so that we do not go about this human disaster called the refugee-migrating crisis and fight and fight. Let us be united and adopt common political positions for this year and for the following years. Also these legislations that we adopt, asylum legislation, the law on international protection, see, these are essentially solutions for today, for tomorrow. What about the day after tomorrow? It seems to me that it would be crucial, however, that we once realize that we have a boat, a Slovenian boat built for a certain capacity of people, so that we can accept maybe 150% of the capacity of these people on this boat. What if we take them too much, then what can happen? I really expect support from this decision, which is sincere, is well-intentioned. And we need this, we need one in-depth debate on how to solve refugees, how to process migrant cases, and all of this within the capacity our country has. We will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u172	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 14 for them and 51 for them. (There were 14 votes in favour.)(against 51.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member, Mr Franz Breznik will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on Mr Franz Breznik's question on informing local communities about the migrant centres. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is very similar to that of my colleague Horvata, by focusing primarily on the Lenart accommodation centre, Black Wood near Lenart. Dear President of the National Assembly, as you know, we were in Lenart together, talking about improved communication. On 17 September 2015, neither the mayor nor the councillors were informed of the intention of the refugee centre being there. They did it, I can say, on their own. Also now, let me say that during this time when we haven't heard from each other, Black Wood has even come to the first place of the accommodation centers in Slovenia, so where people who are rejected, so those who have given this path through, which somehow came to the target countries, have been rejected there, have not been granted status, and will now be returned. So it's about centers where there's a higher security risk. So you put it on the first list and in two days you come to Lenart, the delegation of the Government comes to Lenart. What is she going to talk to the saints and the mayor about? What kind of communication is that? This is the ultimate part, this is the ignorance of democracy. And then all those who have any concerns will be marked by Slovenian media leaders and by you and the United Left that we are unethical, unsocial people, insensitive people and inhumane people. Those of us who have done a great deal in our lives have done much for our Slovenian fellow countrymen. So it's not about vulnerable groups, it's not about children, it's not about women, it's about the people that this government has put down, we can say, through the fingers through to the Schengen area, and now they're coming back disappointed. I'm sure this matter will not end so peacefully. We saw yesterday what these people did when they didn't get their demands, what they did on the Macedonian border. So these people are coming back. That's what I was talking about a few months ago. I said above all that it was necessary to communicate at the outset, that the border should be closed, that sovereignty should be established in this area and that most of these people had nothing to do with the Schengen area. Now, because of the government, such non-communication will be at sea, thousands of children will die in countries when quotas will be filled that could come, which could be given shelter, precisely because the government has acted in a charlatan way and has not communicated. So I ask once again on behalf of humanity, on behalf of what you have agreed at these meetings, to communicate, to take some solutions, and that the Government also communicates, which is the basis of my question, with the local communities, who will come there, who will be there, and to present before that to the municipal councils and mayors what will happen there in this local community. I ask you once again if you are Democrats, if you are not a bulldozer Democrat, to confirm this question of my mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u174	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 14 to 50. (For the vote was 14.)(against 50.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc to the question of Mrs Mate T. Vatovec's question concerning free outpatients to help people who cannot use public health services. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you. For bono ambulances, as they are called in the conversational language, they are becoming more and more permanent. In a short time, the fourth will open up in Nova Gorica, the fifth in Velenje, and the matter clearly points to some of the problems we have in the public health system. On the one hand, these ambulances were first established in 2001 in Ljubljana to help the most endangered groups, these were primarily homeless, Roma. Their goal at the time was to close the door within one to three years. Fifteen years later they still operate well, with 900 permanent patients and between 400 and 500 uncommon patients. This clearly points to some dysfunction in our health system, the fact that, in fact, these pro bono outpatients today represent some kind of silence, or some kind of social security guard, for those on the social side who cannot afford basic health care from such or other circumstances. I therefore asked the Minister how he planned to facilitate the work of these pro bono ambulances in some way, and in particular what measures he has in view of the fact that public health will include, to the greatest extent possible, people on the social side. And we have seen in recent years a practical increase or explosion in the award of concessions to individuals who serve at the expense of these concessions, and at the same time we have these pro bono outpatients, who have many bureaucratic and other financial obstacles to their operation. Let me just stress once again that these are voluntary healthcare workers and donations that individuals or various foundations donate to this for the bono outpatients for their operation, the purchase of medicines, basic needs and so on. I estimate that this is a serious problem in public health, a matter worth talking about in plenary session of the National Assembly. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal in the United Left because it is a matter that needs some attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u176	We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was seven, and the vote was 42. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Commissioner Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc to the question of Ms Miha Kordiš on improving the working conditions of health workers. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was five, and the vote was forty-four. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Mark Pogačnik in connection with the increase in excise duties on petroleum derivatives. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 46. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the next proposal for a decision The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of the message. Branca Grims regarding applications for asylum for rejected migrants. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members shall be mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u177	See, international regulations are very clear that what is called an asylum shop in the jargon of lawyers is not permissible. There's no way you can travel through one country, go to another, ask there, play the roles, refuse you, go back to the first and ask for asylum again. It's just not allowed. Or that you play roles in several countries at the same time. This is happening in Slovenia right now. Those who are rejected elsewhere come here and have the opportunity to apply for asylum here again. My question was exactly why it was allowed. Since international law is clear in this regard, this is not admissible, and the State has every right not to consider such requests at all, to immediately dispatch such an applicant to the first safe country from which it came. Today, these things would be even clearer than international rules, but in line with them, I would certainly have regulated Article 51 in those two paragraphs that you had deleted from the law a little earlier. Because it is difficult to understand, but certainly very harmful conduct, which is clearly contrary to the purpose of international law and also manifestly contrary to the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, directly at the expense of citizens and citizens. It's that fake solidarity and false help you're talking about doing damage to your own, for the benefit of someone else, without meaning and without need. Not only are they not bound by international rules, but, on the contrary, they are travelling to a different opposite course, which you yourself have deleted today by deleting those two paragraphs of Article 51. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, not only is such a debate useful, but it is also necessary because it is in the public interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll definitely go for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u178	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 51. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Parliament's proposal Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Zvonka Laha on subsidisation of new jobs. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 48. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Trcko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Mramor, and the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question sent by Dr Franz Trc concerning the discharge of the President and the member of the Board of the Dars and the responsibility of the Supervisory Board, Dars. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 44. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Logar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Home Affairs, Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of the message. Anzeta Logar concerning locations for migrant accommodation centres. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 51. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of Mr Ljub Žnidar, on the strategy for transport development in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 47. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mamorr, to Mr Jana Mahnič's question on the planned exhaustion and destruction of companies managed by the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, an example of Alpina Giri. Mr Matjaž Han has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much, President. I am of course in favour of this question. But I'm afraid, even if we vote this debate, it'll be a month too late for Alpina. I also spoke today with some of the employees and with some of the people from the Supervisory Board who went to a meeting at DUTB and Mr Dragoni or the Ministry of Finance. I hope they made a deal there. But I can't understand one thing. Some German companies with some advisory contracts come to a company that is already in so much trouble and advise an already impoverished company for 85,000 euros a month, so that they can finally collect what is left to collect. I hope that we will stop the Slovenian good brands in Slovenia from destroying with some quasi economy, which some individuals who are, I will say, have eaten up all the knowledge in this economy. The jury or Alpina is a good brand, and I hope that those responsible will be able to keep this brand alive. However, if I am voting in favour of this proposal now, and I welcome the proposal from Vanya, but it is not here now. But in a month we'll just politicize, and people will be out of jobs. That is why I call on the Ministry, Mr Draganjo and DUTB from this city to really start to save the company, not to destroy it. But mostly I mean dutb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u180	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u181	The New Slovenia Group will support the proposed proposal. I myself was in Zireh on Friday, where the locals explained the situation to me in detail. And what Matjaž said, I can only confirm. That a company in difficulty, DUTB, this is a state-owned enterprise, is charged by the State with owning the DUTB that this DUTB, which will have to restructure and change its business in order to operate more effectively, will charge almost EUR 80,000 of a monthly advisory contract for its restructuring advice, is a crime. Matjaž, if you as a coalition Member can't do anything about all these stories, then what do we have left? I think that parliamentary debate is the only weapon that we Members have. But now your coalition should also ask itself, in precisely such cases, what happened when the DURB leadership changed under the pretext of wages. Slovenians are absolutely vulnerable to wages. And $21,000 is a high salary. But it was sand for the eyes. The real story is who will work with Slovenian companies. Alpina is one case where it tries to restructure by charging her with 80,000 euros each month to pay for counseling, and then these guys still want this company to move down to the Balkans. The second is the case of Peck, where the gentlemen and the boys told me that there was a buyer for Peck called Baldini, the one who wears the shoes of a slightly higher price class, you'll know that these are respectable shoes. And this buyer would buy Pekko. What about our DUTB and SDH? He's making fun of all this stuff. And the continuation of the story is that soon some investment fund from de la Vera, the Blue Investment Group, will appear, I think it is called, which in the bankruptcy mass will be very interested in buying the property of Pek. Why? Because Pekko has properties all over the Balkans in elite locations. And these guys who are in DUTB and SDH today, because they're getting steak, they kill the whole cow.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u182	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much, President. I think it's been a long time, but Mr Tonin is getting to know everything in this country anyway, but when we speak and explain his voice, I would ask you to warn him not to argue with me, because I didn't argue with him, but you back him up a little bit, and then you slap. I'd like to, President, but not when we explain our voice, it's controversial. However, we can convene an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on the Economy, and we will say everything we know, and also what we do not know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u184	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, I presume, has a mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. See, several companies were a term in Slovenia: Elan, Alpina, Peko. And you won't believe what's going on with these companies. It's not that these companies have such a bad program, far away from it, but some strange stories appear and always unfold to the left. Left is left and right is right. And because they turn left, where in Slovenia all capital is in fact or practically all, then very strange left curves occur. And things are going down. Of course, we will vote in favour of getting this out of the way to talk about this in Parliament. We will therefore vote in favour because it is Gorenjska and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u186	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We will also support this proposal in our parliamentary group. There have been a number of meetings of various committees on the economy, public finances, finance, but unfortunately the whole opposition – from there to there – has voted against it. There is something to play for the public, and something is to press the button when it is necessary if we are really dealing with Slovenian property. Paloma will end up in Cyprus. Adria Airways will end up in Luxembourg, Alpina will obviously end up, or Peck's real estate will end up in, I don't know, a mailbox. I don't know how else we can convince you that this is serious and that action needs to be taken. We can't do anything but convene sessions and warn. And if you don't mind, let's talk here. But we need to act. It's just from the conversation, unfortunately, it won't get any better. But we who are not in the government and the government coalition have no other weapon or argument to do anything with.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u188	An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. We will also support this proposal in the United Left. I would say, however, that we were not the United Left in the coalition and in the government, when a list of companies were being drawn up to take part in privatisation. On the contrary. We have always and everywhere opposed the forgiveness of workers, the privatisation that is called the sale. And we are always and everywhere for our companies to remain domestically owned. We will support the proposal, but we do not want the cheap collection of political points at the expense of the poor workers who are threatened with short-term forgiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u190	Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support this proposal for a decision. There is a great need for a debate in the National Assembly. The opposition shall convene urgent meetings of the committees, joint meetings of several committees without a strike. The coalition's runnin' over. Of course, these are our famous brands, which were discussed by colleagues Tonin, Alpina, Pekko, Paloma. I'm adding Nafto Lendava to 100% state property. Where did the politics get her? Under water. That means state administration, state property! That's what we need to talk about here. Yeah, where else? It's obvious that the level of committee meetings is too low, you're betraying us there. We have good suggestions, here, colleagues and colleagues, we need to talk, not just talk, make decisions, decisions, make decisions, commit the government to what it needs to do. And it's over with this kind of economic policy. It's all going under.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-01-SDZ7-Redna-16.ana.u192	We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 35. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 16th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I inform members and members of the Committee on Culture that in 10 minutes, this is the opening of a board meeting at 6:30 p.m. in the big salon.
