ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 22nd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m., Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Janja Sluga until 4 p.m., Mrs Vojka Šergan until 3 p.m., Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik until 4 p.m., Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mr. Franz Breznik and Mag. Matthew Tonin. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 21. On the day-to-day agenda, this is for the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič. The Interpellation was brought before the National Assembly by a group of 11 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Mate T. Vatovci. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Mate T. Vatovec, for an explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, is expected to be appointed as an infrastructure expert. Unfortunately, this has very soon proved to be not an expert or is actually using his knowledge to work contrary to the interests of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Our main findings to Minister Gasperšić are the inhibition of the construction of the second track, the privatisation of the infrastructure, the suspicion of illegal activity and the superficiality of the management of the station for which he is responsible. The initial opposition to the construction of the second track was soon replaced by a hindrance, according to the requirements of the public and the economy, as well as part of the policy after the early start of the construction, came on the day with the idea of a public-private partnership, which, despite the conclusion that it is the most expensive way to build, is still pushing. Such construction is financially pointless and most burdensome for the country. It also means privatising the state infrastructure and the companies operating this infrastructure. If this project is to be implemented, it will be followed by TES 6 by the largest infrastructure robbery of those taxpayers whose interests the Minister of Gasperšič is to protect. From the beginning, the connection to the privatisation of infrastructure to the second track project was very clear. It was only recently after the other Primorskie and demonstrations in Cyprus and Ljubljana that the President of the Government of Cerar began to discuss indeterminately some additional transhipments and logistics capabilities which, of course, cannot be at the turn of the second track. Therefore, there is only one way to obtain a private investor in a public-private partnership project – through the dismemberment and privatisation of our largest and only port, or through the dismemberment and privatisation of state railway management. Minister Gašperšič showed in his two-year ministry that there is nothing more than an easy private capital to tighten his fingers on Slovenian infrastructure. If Minister Gaszperšič remains in office, the second track will most likely become an unrealised blind track. Nowhere in Europe has the model of a public-private partnership ever built a comparable route for mixed transport. We'd lose at least two more years for a project that's already late anyway. Thus, what the Minister announced at the time of his presentation would happen; traffic flows would be diverted to the corridor across Italy and Austria, and one of the few strategic advantages we have would be lost. But let's go slowly from the beginning. At the time of his appointment, the Minister swore that he would work with all his strength for the well-being of Slovenia. That is not the case, it was clear at the time of his presentation before the parental committee. At that time, he unequivocally stated that we would not need a second track, as he intended, for at least 30, 40 years. What the Minister wrote in response to the interpellation, that his performance was indelibly and distortedly interpreted, and that he merely expressed concerns about the design and financing of the project, is a shameless lie and deception, which, however, is full through this reply. The Magnetogram of the hearings is, of course, publicly available on the websites of the National Assembly and in the magnetogram, the word finance appears 35 times, but never about financing the construction of the second track. At the time, however, Dr Gasperšič said regarding the second track that we do not need it because the traffic has already shifted to the Italian-Austrian corridor. The fact is that currents have not yet been diverted and that the corridor is still in construction. What is most controversial about this is that Minister Gašperšič has already surrendered to Austria and Italy in advance. He announced that Slovenia would not take advantage of its strategic position. He accepted the scenario by which Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper would lose most of their revenues and our economy is one of the few competitive advantages. After taking office at the declaration level, Minister Gašperšič changed his mind. The project, which he claimed was irrelevant and delayed, declared his priority but never justified it in practice. The Minister credits himself for the measures that have been initiated long before his mandates, but he is taking responsibility for the failures that he is actually responsible for. In his actions, the project was blocking, which ultimately proves a list of activities related to the construction of the second track, which was to be carried out intensively during his term of office. More specifically, the achievements of the acquisition of construction and other permits, the start of the construction of the extracted track, the commission of a study on the verification of the estimated value of the second track, the establishment of a state-owned enterprise of 2TKK and the draft Law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the implementation of the investment in the construction of the second track. Except for the last-mentioned law, which does not actually exist yet, and for the establishment of a 2DKK, which is a missed move, none of the above is due to Minister Gasperšič, but only to a whale with foreign feathers. In all other cases, it is a multi-annual project that started long ago before Dr. Gasperšič became Minister and he himself is only responsible for cutting the tape. The application for a building permit was submitted in 2011 and was subsequently supplemented several times. The vast majority of the land was purchased before Dr. Gasperšič took office. We can also read on the official side of the Ministry that this is not part of the second track project, or more specifically, that it has been removed from the project and is carried out specifically because of the increase in the capacity of the existing track. The modernisation of the existing line, however, began substantially before Dr. Gasperšič became Minister. The first phase of the project was completed long ago and the main parts of the second phase should have been completed in 2012, but only in October 2014. All that has been completed during the time of this government or is in the final phase is the second phase of phase B and C. And this has only come to an end, but not to begin. A completely different story is, of course, the CEF call to which Dr. Gasperšič’s ministry applied last year. It is here for failure that the Minister has received a project from the previous Government in such a low level of readiness that it has not been possible to file an appropriate application and at the same time a large number of Member States of the European Union have run for office in the tender. Although last February the minister claimed that he believed that the project would be successful on this call and that we would get between €300 and €400 million, it is now clear to him that this was not possible because of the poor work of the previous government. Preparations for the invitation to tender have, of course, been under way before Dr. Gasperšič's performance as Minister. But the idea of a public-private partnership, which is now on the table, was launched right around Minister Gasperšič. In particular, the application was unsuccessful because the project did not have a closed financial structure. The financial structure is still fully open today, more than a year and a half after that. The only thing that really happened on the second track project at the time of the ministry of Dr. Petra Gasperšič, what the minister himself appoints a achievement and for which he is truly responsible, is the establishment of a company called 2TKK. The government announced its decision to set up a special company for the construction of a second track in January this year. This is supposed to be done with the law. Two months later, the government made a decision. With this, the government has elegantly avoided the democratic process and any public debate on the form of a newly established company. The law, which should be prepared by the Ministry of Infrastructure by 30 March, disappeared from the agenda. It was re-emerged only in the Minister's reply to the interpolation, which states that a good two weeks after the introduction of the interpolation, the draft law was sent to prior inter-resort coordination. Neither the public nor Members nor the general public concerned are aware of the content of this Act. 2TKK was set up to privatise itself in the near future and the country retains only a minority share. The second track is supposed to be built in the form of a public-private partnership. This is exactly the heart of the minister's so-called efforts to build a second track. In his response to the interpolation, Dr Gasperšič wrote that he would like to have a substantive, professional and public constructive debate with the aim of finding the best financial and transport solutions before the beginning of the construction. In fact, there was no debate. From the very beginning, Minister Gasperšič categorically opposed all alternative funding proposals. In fact, the decision on public-private partnership was taken at the beginning of 2015. Despite the failure of the CEF to apply for the tender, although the Government is aware that this is the most expensive solution, the Minister has done nothing to find a cheaper and faster solution. On the contrary. At the OECD, he ordered a study to prove what the minister had already stated at the presentation that the second track would not be necessary for much longer. In his reply, Minister Gašperšič writes that he has always pursued the goal of building the second track with as little tax money as possible and is actually doing the opposite. The second track is not a highway that end up being paid by users, and the second track will ultimately be paid by citizens in any case. The difference between the classical investment and the public-private partnership is that we will have to pay profit to the private partner in addition to the costs. This was also acknowledged in his typical liberal way by Minister Restorationšek in an interview for Youth, when he frankly said that the Government had decided on a more expensive option. The second track according to the public-private partnership model, which the Minister insists on, is practically impossible to build. When a journalist asked the minister this February whether he knew any cases of public-private partnership in Europe, the minister also admitted that he did not know him. In fact, there is no public-private partnership in Europe for the construction of freight lines, but a minister would not be a minister if he did not say immediately afterwards that any project could be the first. How can we expect the project to be successful if, after the recognition of the Minister in Slovenia, we have no experience with the public-private partnership in larger projects? How will our officials, who have no such experience, defend public interest against representatives of foreign multinationals, those who have been lobbying with the minister for the past year? There have been no projects in Slovenia and in the future the Government does not plan similar projects, although the proposal for a Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia foresees 6.8 billion investments in transport infrastructure in the next six years. All investments other than the second indent will be financed by classical public funding. That's logical, because that's the cheapest funding. There are more reasons why public-private partnerships are more expensive. For the first time, the private investor will hire loans at a significantly higher interest rate; for the second time, it will be harder to obtain European funds; and for the third time, the investor will require a margin in addition to coverage, that is to say a profit on investment. According to currently available data, the cost of financing in the case of a public-private partnership would be twice as high. The construction of the second track would cost EUR 1 billion without VAT, but the cost of financing the construction would be 1.3 billion in the case of public financing and 2.7 billion in the case of private investment. This showed the calculation of two university professors of economics based on assumptions that anyone can verify. The OECD study, for which Minister Gasperšič spent €160,000 of public money and which is his chronological argument for public-private partnership, does not contain any cost comparison. Moreover, this study also states that there is no model for a public-private partnership that would eliminate the risk of no return on investment in the decades to come. Regardless of the cost of financing at the end, it is clear that the cost cannot be passed on to the users of the line. The railway is not a highway where an investment is paid with tolls or vignettes. The use is negligible, with 7 million euros a year being collected on all thousand kilometers of Slovenian routes. Minister Gasperšič's aim was to build the second track with as few taxpayers as possible, but the truth is that in the end, the loans that private investors will rent will be paid directly by the citizens. Not only are these loans going to be more expensive, but we're going to have to provide the private investor with even more profits. In fact, the Minister advocates a solution that includes the most tax money. On the basis of a public-private partnership, we will end up paying citizens significantly more than in direct public investment. In summary, we can say that we will build in the most expensive way possible, without the necessary knowledge to implement the public-private partnership for the construction of public rail infrastructure, and in doing so we will be the first model for Europe. The public-private partnership project is so difficult to implement as private capital is not in itself adopted. If we want it to be adopted, it is necessary to provide the investor with funding from the budget and related transactions. That's exactly what the ministers of the plans expect. The investor shall be granted a refund on availability. This means that the State pays him the contractual amount for each day when the route is open, even though it is not followed by a single train. The amount of this subsidy depends on the related transactions it acquires; therefore, the larger the related transactions, the smaller the outflow from the budget. But these tied businesses mean privatisation of public infrastructure management, that's a fact. In addition to the budget subsidy, the investor will receive concessions from our state-owned companies, but if this is not feasible, these companies themselves. This will not be recorded in the budget balance, but it will harm Slovenian citizens, as denationalisation, privatisation and ownership have harmed them. However, Minister Gasperšič would not be Minister Gasperšič if he did not claim one at the beginning of his term of office, but now that he is cornered, something else. In February 2015, Studio explained at 17:00 that they could sell shares of state-owned infrastructure companies. A year later, in his reply to his colleague Ferruga, he said that it was possible to build this additional transhipment capacity in Luka Koper, more specifically, in the area of the planned third pier. In order to grant the concession for the construction of the third pier to a foreign investor in the second indent, he spoke publicly in interviews at the beginning of this year, despite the fact that he or at least had to be made clear to him as a competent minister that this would be contrary to the concession contract with Luka Koper. It is not surprising that lobbyists from large terminal companies who were of course interested in the second track and also in the capacity in the port of Koper began to come to the Ministry of Infrastructure after 2016. Two weeks before the parliamentary holidays, Minister Gasperšič explained in a letter to the Government that it was necessary to verify the economic sustainability of the concession awarded to Luka Koper and to amend it accordingly by granting new concessions for the construction of port projects which were not yet in implementation. It is clear, in short, that Minister Gasperšič is working to open a concession contract and grant new concessions to some unnamed concessionaires. Therefore, the statement given in the reply to the interpolation that, I quote, "it is not in any case a weakening of the ownership position of the State in Luka Koper, because the state cannot unilaterally modify the concession contracts." End of quote. It is true that the State by granting a concession for the construction of the third pier does not weaken the ownership of Luka Koper, d. d., and weakens the position of that company in the port itself and takes part of the concession area into the account of private investors. It is, in short, about privatisation in such a way that a state-owned enterprise withdraws from the market as far as possible and thus allows for the penetration of private parties. However, Minister Gasperšič needs the consent of the concessionaire to amend the concession contract, this is Luke Koper, and this is where the story of pressure on the administration and supervisors of this company begins. With regard to the pressure on the guards of Darsa and Luke Koper, Minister Gasperšič wrote in his reply to the interpretation that these findings were not made public until after SDH had proposed the replacement of individual members of the supervisory boards and that the evidence had not yet been presented. Here, first of all, we must say that we are not interpolators seeking Gašperšič's fingerprints at crime scenes. As Minister, of course, he is politically responsible and should not be liable to criminal liability. The fact is, no pressure is placed in the public when it happens or just after. In addition, such things often involve more subtle forms of pressure, for example, someone in a position merely to express his opinion, in this regard making only recommendations, only to think that everything would be better and so on. These pressures are then increasing, and they can also reach open threats. When pressures do not depend, formal replacement mechanisms available shall be used. In the absence of concrete evidence, some facts clearly speak for supervisors and administrations. On 2 April, a second track project was held at Brdo pri Kranj, on which the President of the Management Board, Luka Koper Dragomir Matić was also invited. The consultation was supposed to be of a professional nature, yet Luke Koper was prohibited from participating in the consultation with anyone else from society or from the professional public. A poor two weeks later, a record of this meeting was delivered to Luka Koper, marked "confidential", although before and during the meeting it was never communicated that it was such a content. It is also unclear why the advice of stakeholders for the construction of a second track would bear State security marks. Even more so, if the Minister himself claims that he wants in-depth professional and public debates on the subject. All we know is that the Council is supposed to pressure the President of the Management Board, Luke Koper, to agree to a public-private partnership. There's no point in overly losing words about pressure on Dars and Luke Koper. The supervisors themselves have long presented this to the public, Alenka Žnidaršič Kranjc has also reported certain things to the police, who are now investigating these things. The problem with replacing the administration of Dars and attempting to replace the administration and supervisors of Luke Koper is that there is a similar modus operandi in both: pressure on the administration, pressure on the supervisors and finally pressure on the administration of SDH. Then it is unusual for decisions on early discharges and exchanges of supervisors and administrations in both cases to be taken at a time when the company actually achieves record revenues and profits. Minister Gasperšič writes in his reply to the interpellation that the applicants are misinterpreting the legal arrangements for the management of companies, in such a way that the Minister of State, Government and others responsible do not have the right to express their dissatisfaction with the management, decisions and positions of the administrations of state companies. Of course that's not true. In the United Left, we would often or too often wish that the Government would express these discontents more clearly and that it would sometimes intervene in governance. We have cases of state-owned enterprises in particular in the area of infrastructure that do not achieve such good business outcomes as those of Luka Koper and Dars at the time of the change of supervisors and administrations, and in this regard, Minister Gasperšič does not express any dissatisfaction. Moreover, some companies can opt for investments that are contrary to public interest, and the Minister is quiet. Pressures on supervisors, barriers to the construction of a second track and efforts to build a public-private partnership model have the same common denominator: privatisation of state infrastructure. The last Minister of Gasperšič also makes it possible at the legal level, for example, by means of a new Law on the Company of Slovenske železnica, allowing the sale of ownership shares of subsidiaries of companies of state companies. Novela was accepted at the Government at the same time as the signing of the letter on the intent to sell the company Slovenske železnice – Freight Transport, Austria's ÖBB. This is not to be ignored because Slovenian Railways – Freight Transport – are the only companies in the Slovenian Railways Group that made more profits in the past year. It is a sky-breathing example of efforts to privatise Minister Gasperšić, who is only the top of the icy mountain. The Minister in response to the interpolation is very clear on how this is happening with us. It is obvious that the specific amendment of the law proves its privatisation efforts by rejecting the need to harmonise the Slovenian Railway Company Act with the Capital Investment Management Strategy. This defines the possibility of new shareholders entering the ownership structures of the subsidiaries of SZ if the real needs for such a measure are demonstrated. Of course, the real needs have never been shown. The law, which is seven sides long, does not mention real needs once, speaks only of adapting to market conditions. In addition to the harmonisation of the Capital Investment Management Strategy, the Minister further substantiates the need to amend the Slovenian Railway Company Act by substantiating the possibility of divestment of certain companies as part of the Slovenian Railway Group's strategic business plan for 2016-2020. This was also adopted at the same time as the signed letter on the intention to sell SZ — Freight Transport and the adopted amendment to the law. So we have a law whose content we adapt to the act and to the business plan. The hierarchy of acts is turned upside down in such logic, and if anyone is talking about the kidnapping of a country, they probably have the most obvious or eccentric case here. It is interesting that Minister Gasperšič has never expressed his dissatisfaction with the fact that the Slovenian Railway Administration has adopted a business plan which was contrary to the law or that SDH has adopted this business plan. On the contrary, Minister Gasperšič went cold and calm to amend the legislation, which subsequently legalized all of this. Of course, this novelty allows not only the sale of business shares of Slovenian railways – Freight transport, but all companies in the Slovenian Railway Group, including those operating the railway infrastructure. It is significant, however, that in response to the interpellation, Minister Gasperšič highlighted mainly the construction company SŽ – Fersped and SŽ – Freight Transport. This is probably a response to which additional logistics and pre-shipment facilities are available to the private investor in the second indent in addition to the third pier concession, Luke Koper. This is not only about privatisation in the event that the investor gets ownership of these companies, but also about privatising the management of the state infrastructure. If I touch the last update of the railway Prague-Hodoš. In early summer, the President of the Government and Minister Gasperšič attended the festive opening and cutting of the tape of the updated railway, and later we learned from the media that they still drive old diesel locomotives along the track. The problem with the new route is that there is not enough electricity supply at a given section to reach the full capacity that it also allows. The Minister argues in his reply to the interpretation that the applicants are not well informed about what locomotives they are driving on the track at – and this is true, we admit. We do not have access to such sources of information as the Minister of Infrastructure has on current developments on routes. However, this last case of the festive opening of the line, which is practically unfinished, is the last case of the ministry under Dr. Peter Gasperšić, which we cannot cross. Above all, it is not beyond the fact that the Minister is responsible for the modernisation of the railway, that the line was not built, but mainly the responsibility of Elektro Maribor, whose responsibility is to build this far-reaching project. Nor did the track electrify and modernise the Ministry of Infrastructure itself, always on the basis of calls are the companies that then carry out the whole thing. Elektro Maribor was in charge of the construction of the remote and Minister Gasperšič was in charge of the infrastructure as a whole. The Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, does not perform his work in a way that would raise the welfare of Slovenia, to which he pledged in his oath as Minister. Sunday, bad work, misleading, privatising infrastructure and managing it, suspicions of illegality are words that best describe the work of the minister. On the basis of the above and justified reasons, we believe that the interviewer investors on the work and responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšić, feel that the latter is not suitable for the performance of the minister of infrastructure, so we propose that the State Council discharge him from this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u3	You received the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič, to the interpretation 25. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I give the floor to Minister Peter Gasperšič to explain the written reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues in the Government, citizens and citizens! I see today as an opportunity to respond as much as possible to the interpretative statements as possible, but also as an opportunity to present briefly the work done by the Government in the areas of infrastructure, transport and energy in these two years and also to discuss plans for the future. In particular, I would like to draw a slightly broader context, which is necessary to understand certain decisions, timetables and financial frameworks. In front of you, but also the wider Slovenian public, I would like to present what we have done together with the expert team of the Ministry, Government and many other colleagues at this time. We are aware of the importance of infrastructure, both with direct results that bring modern connectivity, economic development and better life, as well as with a positive impact on the growth of gross social product. Let me just give you a few key results. After many years, we have provided more resources to reinvest in road infrastructure. For comparison only, in 2014, 66 million investments were made on the road network, and this year we provided 104 million, almost 60% more. This will allow us to carry out 334 different interventions into road infrastructure in 2016 and 2017. The Ministry was very successful in drawing on European funds, allowing us to carry out some important projects: modernisation of railways worth billions of euros; we deepened the waterway to Luka Koper; we started building the highway from Drazenci to Gruškov; we renovated the airport in Maribor; we introduced a single ticket for students and students; we built a network of 26 fast electric power stations on the motorway network. Energy rehabilitation of buildings is also one of the major projects of the Ministry and Government. The public sector has a special role to play here, setting an example in the field of energy efficiency. In the past cohesion period, we have restored almost 600 facilities. We are also continuing with the energy rehabilitation project for buildings during the period 2014-2020, when we have €115 million of European grants available and we are already implementing the first projects. I'll tell you more about the second track below. But let me stress that the second track is and remains the priority of the government, the ministry and me as minister. I hope to further answer not only your legitimate questions and any doubts, but also to reject unjustified claims and wrong conclusions. But here I would like to point out that I fully reject the perceptions of the interpolation investors. As to whether I am fit to serve as Minister of Infrastructure, you, honourable Members and Members will finally have a reasoned opinion, and it is my job to present the arguments for your opinion. The four alleged reasons are given by the Group of Members and Members, signatories to the interpolation for my resolution. I will answer them in reverse order, from the last to the first, because it is already from the length and above all the weight of the arguments of the interpellation proponents that the basic apple of the dispute is the second track and all that has been involved in this project. Especially since the second track for the Slovenian situation is an extremely demanding project. From the 27 km of the track, there are as many as 20 km of tunnels, including 2 viaducts, 2 bridges, and one gallery. If the public financial situation were to allow the construction of the second track in a classical way, this would be through budget funding, we could have started construction already, since we had already obtained a construction permit at the Ministry of Infrastructure at the end of March this year for the second track. Let's go in one order. The fourth alleged reason for my interpolation was to be a failure to update and electrify the railway line Prague-Hodoš. And the facts are as follows. The electrification of 109 kilometres of long section was carried out in full, in the time and financial framework established. The entire section meets all the conditions for an electric tractor, for speeds of up to 100 miles [160 km] per hour. From 15 June of this year, passenger transport has been carried out on the entire route and since 20 June has been carried out by electric tractors. Carriers gradually replace diesel locomotives with electric locomotives. Electric trains have no electricity problems. Let me conclude this point by firmly rejecting the statement in the interpretation that the population and the economy of Gorička should suffer from electricity shortages. That's just not true. For all of the above reasons, I reject the statement in point 4 of the interpolation. The modernisation and electrification of the railway line Prague–Hodoš were successful. A third alleged reason is to seek to privatise state infrastructure. There is not a single argument to substantiate these claims, but there are many that prove otherwise. Let me take my turn. The basic objective of the amendment of the Slovenian Railway Company Act, which was prepared for intersectoral coordination in October 2015, was to comply with the existing and applicable capital investment management system. This was precisely the aim of ensuring a coherent capital investment management strategy, which you adopted in this reference to the National Assembly, but not to act in disagreement with it. The State’s capital investment management strategy defines the possibility of entering new shareholders either into a roof company or into certain core and support activities managed by the subsidiaries of the Slovenian Railways. This would provide financial resources to reduce indebted Slovenian railways and develop them. We have followed the initiative of the Slovenian Railways to ensure adequate development for the daughters of 100 per cent of companies on the market. These are companies Slovenske železnice – Freight Transport, Slovenske železnice – Railway construction company and Fersped. New capital and new customers are needed for their development. However, it is wrong to speak in this context about the privatisation of infrastructure, since these companies do not even manage infrastructure and are even less owners. All Members and Members of Parliament, including those who propose the interpretation, are well aware of some other facts, so allow me only to remind you of them telegraphly. SDH adopted the Strategic Business Plan of the Slovenian Railway Group for the period 2016-2020 as the founder of the company on 26 January this year, which provides for the need for strategic integration in rail freight transport, which does not exclude the possibility of capital integration. In the proposal for a law, we therefore proposed deleting a provision whereby Slovenian railways cannot share or transfer their business shares in subsidiaries owned by their 100 % ownership. They can do this now, and at least 50% and one share must remain owned by the Slovenian Railways. In addition, the coalition members proposed an amendment that Slovenian railways, as the founder and associate of its subsidiaries, may have business shares in each subsidiary in accordance with the strategy. That is what the Government has proposed, and the National Assembly has accepted. Let me add that in addition to legally built-in fuses, they are also in the current management system in possession of the security. In view of the Act establishing the Slovenian Railway Company, it is still necessary to have the supervisory board's agreement on capital investments. The consent of the Slovenian State Holding Company as an investment manager must also be given. In view of all the above, as unfounded, I reject the allegations that I am advocating the privatisation of infrastructure as Minister of Infrastructure. On the contrary, I have always advocated the view that infrastructure must remain in the country's 100% ownership. The second alleged reason for my interpretation is the suspicion of unlawful influence on Dars and Luke Koper's supervisors. Interpreters were so cautious that they entered the word "sumi" in this paragraph. Therefore, it is not a matter of any proven illegal influence, but of suspicion. And when these are rejected, applicants in the style of the most vicious tabloids will be able to argue that they have only talked about suspicions, and irreparable damage has been done in the meantime, as good gossip is no better than bad suspicions. So let us not spread suspicions, but let us strive for the truth. However, the truth is that suspicions were made public only when SDH proposed the replacement of individual members of the Porte Koper Supervisory Board, not when the alleged pressures were expected. Concerned, credible and consistent supervisors should immediately inform the competent authorities, in accordance with the laws and principles of corporate governance, as they have not done so, that these charges have been made primarily to encourage public pressure on SDH decisions as the manager of state investments in companies. I think that the goal of influencing our own human resources composition was to protect ourselves, i.e. to prevent the replacement of members of the supervisory boards. The reasoned proposals for the replacement of individual members of the Supervisory Board thus, instead of serious discussions with professional arguments, become a struggle against the alleged pressures of the Minister and, of course, it is clear in advance to whom a negative omen will be attributed in such a suspicion and to whom the righteous shines. For the reality of these suspicions, no evidence has ever been provided, so it is extremely problematic if suspicions become a tool of political struggle. I believe that interpolation should be based on evidence and actions, not on suspicion. In addition, let me mention that Luka Koper and Dars are among those companies in the majority or even 100 % of the property of the Republic of Slovenia that have concluded concession contracts with the country. The Ministry of Infrastructure, as the competent department, is obliged to ensure that the objectives of managing capital investments and commitments under concession contracts are mutually coordinated, while the Slovenian State Holding, as the operator, is obliged to ensure that the operations of these companies are carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation, the strategy adopted and each annual management plan. In the case of Luke Koper, we are witnessing a situation in which a dominant company of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the Government's efforts to establish a public-private partnership for the construction of a second track, which is urgently needed for the development of a port and for the development of railways. It is important to ask whether, in such a case, and in such a case, the Secretary-General, the Government and others responsible do not have the right and even the duty to express their disagreement. If the Government did not have an impact and consequently a responsibility for the implementation of the sectoral policies, this would in practice mean the kidnapping of the country by systemic companies. This led to the first key reading in the interpolation. However, before I do so, as in the previous two points, I should categorically reject here the obvious unproven suspicions of having an impact on the human resources decisions of the supervisory boards as one of the reasons for my interpretation. I never asked supervisors for any replacements, no management, no company. First of all, I believe that even after the political weight invested in this interpellation, the alleged reason for my replacement should be the irresponsible conduct and inhibition of the construction of the second track of the Koper-Divic. I ask you, honourable Members, whether we are really blocking the construction of the second track project, which we have already classified as priority strategic projects at the time of the appointment of the Government. In accordance with this government commitment, I have been acting alone since the beginning of my term of office. Are we really blocking the construction of those who, as a prerequisite for drawing on European funds for the second indent of July 2015, adopted the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia? Are we really blocking the construction of those who invested 191 million euros in upgrading the existing line between Divisco and Kopro, thereby increasing transport capacity from the original 9.2 million tonnes per year to 14.3 million tonnes or from 72 to 82 trains per day? Are we really blocking the construction by completing the project of electrification of rail lines of the range group in the area of the port of Cyprus, which allows the arrival of electric locomotives directly to the port area? Does it really hamper the construction of the Government, which, in its mandate for the second track, obtained a supplementary decision on environmental agreement and 49 consents to a project to obtain a building permit? Are we really blocking construction by actually starting to build the first section of the new second track? On 8 July this year, work started on the extraction track project, which will increase the capacity of the existing track from 82 to 85 trains per day or from 14.3 to 15.2 million tonnes per year. For this investment, 85% of European funds were successfully acquired in 2015 under the so-called national envelope. Are my co-workers in the Ministry really obstructing the construction of land, which, after a good year of intensive work, managed to obtain the right to build on the remaining 20% of the land where the most demanding procedures for regulating ownership relations were under way, which allowed us to build on all the land needed to build a second track in early December 2015? It's a good million square meters of land. Are we really blocking the construction by filing an application for a building permit for the construction of the second line of the Divač-Koper railway line, which was acquired on 31 March this year, which is already legally binding today? Does it really hamper the construction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which adopted on 31 March this year a decision establishing a specific project company 2TKK? On 2 June this year, the Government appointed the company’s director and, as of 28 June, the company has been registered in the Register of Justice. Yesterday, however, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding approved the annual management plan of 2TKK, which will allow it to recapitalise EUR 100 million this year. So are we really blocking the construction of the second track, the one we've classified as priorities, accepting strategic documents, obtaining all the necessary land and permits, taking care of the complementary infrastructure, and practically starting to build it with an extraction track? Indeed, the question was never a second line, yes or no, but only in what time dynamics and with what financial structure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is working towards the realization of this strategic project, so that public debt will not be increased and the state budget and taxpayers will bear the least burden. We assume that the financial burden and risks associated with this project must be shared among key stakeholders who will benefit most from the construction of the second track, while ensuring the further development of the port of Cyprus, Slovenian railways and Slovenian logistics economic activities. These are the key reasons why the Government decided in February 2015 to implement the project in the form of a public-private partnership. To this end, a public order was also published to verify the estimated value and all possible rationalisation and optimization for the Divač-Koper second track project. On 30 June, a contract was concluded with the selected contractor with a period of three months. We'll get our first findings by the end of this month. There is absolutely no doubt that there is a need to provide a new railway connection between Divisco and Kopro. Despite the increased transport capacity of the existing route, there is a constant latent risk that extraordinary events cause congestion or occasional traffic closures on this single railway connection. Such a case is this year's fire on the edge of the karst. Let me just give you a few more information that adequately confirms the Government's understanding of Luke Koper as a Slovenian strategic window into the world or even better than the sea entrance into the area of Central and Southern Europe. In 2015, a project was successfully completed to deepen the canal into the first port basin at a depth of 15 metres, allowing for the influence of larger container ships. On 30 June this year, the government adopted a five-year port development programme by 2020, which provides for approximately €300 million in investments in port infrastructure and equipment. The Ministry is actively working to address open issues related to the regulation of import roads and port entrances and to provide additional land for the needs of the port. There will be plenty of time in the debate to reject some other misrepresentations of interpolation. Allow me only the concluding thoughts of this opening statement. For the Government and for me as Minister, the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper is a strategic priority not only because of the development potential of the port of Koper and the Slovenian Railways, but because of the entire Slovenian coast and sustainable in the future of Slovenia. At the beginning of the construction of the second track in 2017, I have committed my mandate and will return it to the Prime Minister in case of failure. If I have rejected the arguments of the interpolation, I hope that I have also pointed to its political interest. I understand it as possible, but an unwise attempt to prevent a second-track project from being carried out with a public-private partnership, because those who oppose it are essentially opposed to the construction of a second track. Our Government has taken responsibility for this type of funding precisely because of: firstly, poor experience in financing certain infrastructure investments in the past – remember TES 6; secondly, due to macro-fiscal constraints and thirdly, because of the key objective that the burden of the project is borne by the recipients of its direct benefits, not only by taxpayers. This is our responsibility in the present and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. President of the Government, esteemed ministerial assembly, good morning or good morning also colleagues and colleagues! At the time of joining this autumn and the new work challenges of our assembly, we were initially welcomed and, I believe, also cheered up the data on higher employment, stable economic growth, better inclusion of Slovenia in comparative competitiveness and economic freedom scales and, last but not least, the first reading of the budget for the next two years, which suggests that Slovenia will finally be fiscally stabilised and return to the circle of the most successful European countries, further among the most successful and responsible members of the European Union. With the good results of this work and, frankly, we must also recognise previous governments, it is also possible to understand, at least in some cases, the opposition is strongly urged to continue and speed up a series of investments in interpellations. While the latter could be understood as the last attempt to end the work process before the elections and the concrete results and performances of the tasks, showing that the Government is not as successful as the data and statistics show. However, because we believe in the good intentions of the opposition, we understand the already invested and announced interpretations more than an opportunity to make a systematic assessment of the work of ministers and ministers and once a month take a closer look at the work of one of the pillars of the Slovenian government. At the same time, we would like to see that an important parliamentary instrument for the control of the executive branch would not be taken lightly, as poor and superficial interpretations in fact reduce the importance and role of this, for the democracy of an extremely important tool. In particular, it seems that now that you are one, now the other opposition party, or already absent independent Members, are taking over the interpretations and the credits for their investment. The last parliamentary work degrades from time to time to the level of the average misdirected Spanish sequel. However, if we leave behind a well-known and, unfortunately, present parliamentary "show must go on" we can find that today, according to the content of the Minister's tasks and responsibilities, we are considering an extremely important material for the further development of our country; in particular, if we look at the interpretation or monthly introduction or analysis of the selected Ministry, and discuss the future and development of Slovenian logistics, we add the issue of the process of building development axes, important regional transport alternatives, and not least the issue of the state and development of Slovenian energy. However, the core of this interpolation is the issue of the early construction of the second track and the related long-term perspective and status of Luke Koper, the third pier and the country of an extremely important logistics sector. We have repeatedly reiterated that Luka Koper is strategically important for the Republic of Slovenia and must remain in the ownership and management of the country and its people, because we do not know how to imagine the development of the country if, due to the wrong policy decisions of the main North Adriatic port, neighbouring competitors would be overtaken and Slovenia would gradually enter the door into the world of logistics and development. Therefore, it is not surprising to the staff and the general Slovenian public that, when SDH and the Minister of Infrastructure had a lack of or insufficient communication, privatisation was also possible in the case of Luke Koper and, in the case of the second track, further delay in its construction. Even or especially the Social Democrats, we immediately set out a clear expectation that such speculations would be based on a lie that was responsible for confusion and accountability. Where are we today? The president of the SDH administration said good-bye, the Secretary of State, Mr Dragonja, and Minister Gasperšič publicly, clearly and without delay, put the issue of delaying the process of construction of the second track and, in case of failure, announced his resignation. At the same time, public commitments were made to exclude the possibility of gradually privatising Luke Koper through concession contracts, which was one of the main fears or demands within the Social Democrats Group. If we address the question of the second track more closely, we can see that, after the SDS Minister in the Government did not seem worth the effort, today, however, on the table, a valid building permit for the construction of the second Koper-Divač railway track, which has become legal at the end of May this year. A 2TKK company is also set up to lead the construction project, including the preparation of the financial structure, which is still the biggest challenge, but with a clear framework and an idea of how to fill the framework with money. About 200 million is the expected financial contribution of the Republic of Slovenia, 200 million are expected EU grants, and Slovenia, clearly, is also counting on the loan from the so-called Juncker Fund and, most importantly, the inclusion of stakeholders in the construction of the second track, in particular the Slovenian Railways and the Port of Koper. While there is still some work to be done, a common language needs to be sought between the country and both companies and the time dynamics of funding and other mutual rights and obligations need to be defined more precisely. Therefore, the need to borrow and burden taxpayers will be lower than the financial contribution of both companies which are in majority state ownership. This is how we support the Minister's ideas in the direction of seeking European funds, which include both the country's largest infrastructure companies, and clearly exclude the possibility of possible ownership privatisation, in particular Luke Koper, or the granting of concessions on port or rail infrastructure. Such assurances have been received by Minister Gasperšič, which we consider to be a very important and good basis for deciding not to support interpolation. But that's not the only thing we expect from Minister Gaspersic. With full commitment, we must continue the process of installing and building the third development axis, both the north and the south, by building the North Sea Oblast and by expecting the Minister to complete the energy concept of Slovenia as soon as possible, as the next Port of Koper can happen in Slovenian energy if we manage it anarchically and in a way that is simply left to lobby and foreign takeovers. In our work, the Social Democrats want everything good and, above all, the courage and efficiency of the Minister. For Slovenia needs hard, hard work and results more than today's interpretation debates and the transfer of responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister, respected members of the Government! The public-private partnership pushed by the Minister and Prime Minister of the Government directly threatens the future of Luke Koper, Slovenian Railways and 400 other companies, which together create as much as 2% of Slovenian GDP. As my colleague Vatovac has already said, it is virtually impossible for us to build a difficult track with public-private partnerships such as the second track. If the project were to be implemented, it would be twice as expensive for citizens as if Slovenia were building this track with public funds, not by the United Left, but by economists. Therefore, in the United Left, we are concerned that the second track for citizens and citizens will become the new TEM 6. So I start with the question: Is the project feasible? In February this year, the journalist Dela Minister Gasperšič asked if he knew in Europe any case of a public-private partnership that builds the railway. Minister Gaszperšič replied: "I don't know or in Europe, but I know about cases in the world." In short, in one year, since the Government has decided that the second track must be built with a public-private partnership, the Minister has not been able to find a single case of good practice in Europe, which is not surprising at all, since not a single route for mixed transport has been built in Europe with a public-private partnership, and especially not such a difficult track that freight trains are likely to follow. After Minister Gasperšič demonstrated his incompetence in this way, he also said: "Ever, any project can be the first." In short, in response to the interpolation, he acknowledged that we do not have practical experience in Slovenia with models of the public-private partnership for infrastructure projects, but now he is trying to convince us that he will implement a project that no one in Europe has ever done. All the surrounding countries and virtually all European countries are building with the credit potential of their own countries. The Brenner tunnel will be built by Italy and Austria with public funds. Even in Slovenia, not one metre of road or railway has been built with a public-private partnership, so I am primarily asking coalition MPs and MPs the question: Do you think it is possible for Minister Gasperšič and his team to carry out a project like no one else in Europe? And: Do you think it is possible for such a project to be implemented in the public interest? Whoever supports the minister today guarantees it. Now we can go to the point, and that is, in whose interest is the public-private partnership that the Ministry is forcing. Minister Gasperšič wrote in his reply that the private partner will relieve Slovenian taxpayers with his contribution; in short, the investment will be cheaper for all of us. Of course, one wonders why then Austria, Italy, in fact all European countries build railways with public funds and not with public-private partnerships. The answer is clear; because this is cheaper for citizens. This is also confirmed by the statement made by Minister Počavalska, who openly admitted in his interview for Youth that the government had decided to make a more expensive option. So each of us should ask why private capital should invest in a project that is not in itself profitable. In doing so, it is important to stress, as already before me, my colleague Vatovec, that the railway line is not a freeway, as the motorway returns its investment with tolls. Dars, for example, collects 370 million different tolls each year with us, while the use for the entire Slovenian railways is worth 7 million euros. So the tolls bring 370 million, the railroad 7 million. Thus, the entire Slovenian railways do not cover 10% of the cost of the investor in the case of the second track with the annual repayment of credits. Of course, this is also recognized by multinational organisations interested in investment in the second indent, and these are not charities. They are interested in profit and should be asked how Minister Gasperšič intends to provide them with this profit. The formula is very simple. 2TKK, which will be in majority foreign ownership, will receive a concession to manage both the different and the existing track, and the citizens will pay this foreign company out of the budget each year a subsidy for availability. As this will not even cover the investment, the Republic of Slovenia will also grant concessions to this company for our public infrastructure, and of course those that will bring profits. The only such profitable concessions are currently located in the Kore port and belong to the state-owned company Luka Koper. It is not a coincidence, therefore, that the Ministry of Public-Private Partnership Investment has been lobbying for multinationals involved in port activities all the time. Therefore, of course, what Minister Gasperšič says is not true, that the private partner will burden our citizens. In fact, it is the opposite; the citizens will burden the private partner. One part will be paid with subsidies and the other part will be paid with tied transactions, i.e. with the privatisation of our public infrastructure. Therefore, it does not matter, of course, how much it will cost to finance this construction. The GZS study by three university professors showed that public-private partnership would cost twice as much as public investment. Public investment would cost us the citizens 1.3 billion euros, and this quasi will cost us 2.7 billion euros. Of course, the difference is made on the one hand because a private investor is looking for profit and most of it is out of the question that private investors owe substantially more than the state. So the loans are more expensive for them. In doing so, I would stress that whoever today supports Minister Gasperšić will vote in favour of his second track project and therefore that Slovenia is overcompensating the necessary investment in it twice. In the United Left, of course, we won't do that. Minister Gasperšič and the President of the Government are constantly misleading the public about what a public-private partnership is. You say, let's say a private investor won't get a subsidy, but a compensation for availability. But that's just another name for the subsidy, because the facts can't be erased. The turn of the railway will not be paid by those who drive on it, but by the citizens. The country will pay this foreign company a flat fee each year for each day when the route is open, no matter how many trains it takes that day. Citizens will already be able to determine whether it is such a compensation for availability as they call it a subsidy or not. At this point it is worth noting that the State currently does not pay any compensation for the availability of Darsu or Luka Koper, on the contrary, Luka Koper pays the concession to the State and to both municipalities. The other way to pay the investor is by doing business. If the private investor receives concessions on another public infrastructure, which will be profitable itself, the subsidy that we will pay directly from the budget will be lower. Minister Gasperšič also replied to his colleague Ferlugi in January this year that they would grant a concession to a foreign company to build and carry out additional transhipment capacities that could be built in Luka Koper, in particular a third pier. On 29 June, Minister Gasperšič sent a letter to Vladi to prepare amendments to the concession contract, which would allow new concessions to be granted, then there was a rebellion of employees in Luka Koper and the government stopped talking about the third pier. However, it still intends to grant a concession for the performance of other transhipment facilities. To date, neither Prime Minister nor Minister Gasperšič has answered the question of the Cypriot workers whose additional pre-shipment capacities are these. They still have not guaranteed that Luka Koper will maintain all existing concessions in the area of the port of Koper. In response, Minister Gasperšič wrote that Luka Koper was informed through the project council of all the solutions contained in the draft law on the second track. This is clearly misleading, as the draft law is not accessible to Members either, and the project council met only once, on 7 April this year without any material. Did he at least answer you coalition partners a simple question about which concessions are in play? Will you be able to guarantee that Luka Koper is a whole company with all the concessions? Desus has, we know, set a deadline for the Minister to answer these questions by the end of the year, but in the United Left, we stress that if we want to carefully judge his suitability as a minister, we simply need these answers today; today is a crucial day for the fate of the public-private partnership at the second track. It is clear why there is no answer to this question so far and why the records of the Interdepartmental Group for the second track are marked "internal". The Public-Private Partnership project is not feasible without tied business, which the Government does not want to talk about. There are no other yields in Slovenia other than the port of Cyprus. The question is whether the construction of the third pier would be profitable enough. The calculations so far show that no and that it is necessary to privatise Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways directly. That's not what I'm saying. The current team at the Ministry with Gaspersic is not the first to propose a public-private partnership. In 2007, Deutsche Bahn offered an arrangement to the then government. The Germans were willing to invest 370 million euros in our infrastructure for, watch out, half share in Luke Koper holding, Slovenian Railways and Intereurope at the same time. In addition, they demanded that Slovenia contribute a good 4 billion more to modernise railway lines. Thus, EUR 370 million required a half share in Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways, Intereuropa and a 4 billion investment in the modernisation of railways. Now the government is counting on someone to invest a billion euros, i.e. three times the amount that Deutsche Bahn offered in 2007 in exchange for such strong concessions. At the same time, the government assures us that Luke Koper will not privatise, but she obviously knows that this is not possible in a public-private partnership as planned by the Ministry, because this coalition has amended the Slovenian Railways Act, which allows the sale of shares to Austrian state railways. Minister Gasperšič wrote three weeks ago: "As a competent minister, I can claim that the port of Koper in addition to business should also become an investment, strategic or even capital centre, as the neighbouring ports already do and become closer to world logistics." That's, uh, between the lines, the announcement of the beginning of the privatisation of Luke Koper. But there's something clear. The mere granting of concessions is the privatisation of infrastructure management. The rent brought by today's strategic position and our country's investments will be used from here on out by foreign capital. On 1 September, Minister Gaspersic wrote that the investor will also be granted a concession to manage the existing track. The Minister is therefore prepared to manage the only railway connection of the port of Cyprus to fully transfer to a company that will be owned by the neighbouring countries, most likely by Orbánov Hungary and Hoferje Austria. I'm sorry, but that's no way to run an independent state, that's how the colonies are managed. Our position, the position of the United Left, is clear: a public-private partnership is impossible if we do, but we are ahead of the threshold of the new TES 6, i.e. an investment that will be overpaid twice on the shoulders of citizens. I will ask, in particular, the coalition Members and Members of Parliament here, who are vouching for the Minister, if you think this is feasible. Sooner or later, the cards will have to be placed on the table, if not sooner, when the law comes to Parliament and the citizens will not be powerless, they still have the option of a referendum to stop this project. To conclude, I stress that there is an alternative, and this is the construction of a second track with public funds. I wouldn't be that expensive after all. We'd need 36 million euros a year. On Friday, last week, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, for example, discussed a new proposal for income legislation, after which the richest couple in this society would be granted 56 million euros in income leave. So 20 million more than what it would take to build a second track every year. So it is not a question of feasibility, it is not a question of finance, it is only the priorities and political will of this coalition and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u9	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u10	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Honourable Minister, Colleagues and Colleagues! Interpellation of Minister Gasperšić in fact hangs in the air since his presentation further, presentations before the parental committee, when you, the distinguished minister, have excited the Slovenian public a little bit, including this National Assembly, with your statements on the need for a second track, and on the construction or non-necessary construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje section. In Novi Slovenija, we estimate that the Minister's work so far or better said too slow work, work, is entirely in line with the then imposed only tactics; it is said to maintain the situation so far. Everything else is running out of money or it's becoming unnecessary. At least that's how it seemed at the presentation, and this work is essentially continuing. We could not agree less on such an approach. This is precisely why Slovenia is lagging behind in development for Austria, Italy, not to mention the Czech Republic or Poland. The quality of modern infrastructure is the basic condition for the development of an economy that brings jobs, prosperity and not least, which also makes it possible for the social state. The relevant transport infrastructure is the backbone of each company, economy and service activity in the broadest sense. The country's development indicators are also reflected in the level of development of this infrastructure, investment investments and the importance of responsible planning, including the multi-annual transport strategy. Well, let's see what our infrastructure is like. Roads. We are witnesses to a very poor and troubled condition. Nevertheless, the orientation of our budget is far from ensuring and enabling additional investment in road infrastructure in addition to regular maintenance. However, it is not possible to improve the road infrastructure, but only through regular maintenance. It's not possible. Therefore, if we wanted to gradually restore the entire network of state roads, this year and for a few years we would need EUR 298 million for this purpose in the budget. Dear Minister and distinguished Government, action in this area should be more decisive, as our roads are increasingly dangerous and pose certain risks to car manufacturers who no longer provide such guarantees than they once did or in other countries of the European Union. Railroads. In Slovenia we have an outdoor railway museum. If you compare our railway infrastructure with rail infrastructure abroad, when you move more than 100 kilometres from one place to another within a few hours with 300 kilometers an hour, then we can only substantiate this claim further. But we are in the field of rail infrastructure where the Western European countries were in the 1960s and where the countries of Eastern Europe were in the 1990s. If we joke a little; what the emperor has left us today, unfortunately, we keep. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as infrastructure is concerned, of course this Minister is not the only one responsible for this situation. This is actually drawn from the mandate or from the period of independence, or we have not taken more decisive steps before to update our infrastructure. But in the last two years, steps towards modernising transport infrastructure have been too small and too determined, things have not changed according to expected needs. Austria has also long since come up with the idea of avoiding the Koper-Budapest railway corridor because of our inefficiency in the regulation of railway infrastructure. As a result, it has started to speed up its support for investments in railway infrastructure, updating and upgrading the Danube-Cradec-Celovac-Beljak-Trbiz-Videm-Trst-Benek route. Despite the difficult terrain, they are aware of the importance of railway infrastructure and that they cannot count on Slovenia, the second track and thus better and faster access to the northern Adriatic, to the port of Koper. There is also the line between Gradna-Celovac and the neighbours, both Austrians and Italians, so it goes much faster than we do and the question is why. The good geographical position we have Slovenians does not mean anything if we are unable to use these positions effectively. Slovenia is thus losing its logistics and transport competition because we cannot agree on and decide on key infrastructure projects in the field of transport. The neighbouring countries do not practically have these problems for us. Without us, they have already agreed and started building a new Baltic corridor that bypasses Slovenia. I'm sorry. The question therefore arises why the new corridors do not take Slovenia into account despite the exceptional geographical position. However, with the arguments and justifications of the interpellation candidates, we must point out that, nevertheless, the proponents insist on the accusations of privatisation of the state infrastructure. We add that perhaps at least some form of public-private partnership would allow us to move away from the dead point in the field of state infrastructure, which threatens our development. The public-private partnership is not a step away, as the interpelling proponents say. About the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper. The fact that the development of the port of Koper and the development of Slovenian transport infrastructure as well as logistics clearly require a second track on the Divač-Koper railway route, despite the extensive discussion of both policy and economics, has certainly not done anything in the direction of actually starting construction. The greatest damage to the total inefficiency of the second track that is not yet in existence, but without any doubt, Luke Koper feels the same. Despite the fact that policy is uniform, the second line of Divaca-Koper is needed, procedures are being halted again and again to finance the construction itself. The country as the owner of our only port, Koper, must be a good host as the owner of Luke Koper and must take care of its development and growth. Minister Gasperšič did not bring any new start to the project. Moreover, despite statements by the President of the Government that the construction of the second track is the most important infrastructure project, he said the opposite at the beginning of or before the beginning of his term of office and this is a characteristic bipolarity. While it is not true that the Government has done nothing in the construction of the second track, it is worth mentioning the establishment of the project company for the construction of the second track, but at this establishment there is one key problem: we have a business, we say we will plant shovels, we start building and we promise dates and dates, and we do not have at all and we do not know the financial structure. Here lies this fear of many and also fear in this case of New Slovenia. When it is claimed, I repeat that we will start building, we do not or do not know who will finance this project. It is justified to fear that such nonchalant decisions may repeat the story of TEŠ 6; not because of the public-private partnership, but because we will go to the nose under some pressure to build without knowing who will give us this money, how we will get it and where we will get it. Another TEŠ 6 is not necessary at this time. In New Slovenia, therefore, we cannot agree with these procedures, because these procedures go beyond the relevant procedures and may represent an additional burden for taxpayers. This concept, which takes into account a billion EUR 400 billion of investment, is by no means, at least for New Slovenia, not to be taken into account and at the expense of the next generation, at the expense of our children, our grandchildren paying this question, we cannot agree in New Slovenia, therefore, the search for the concessionaire is also an appropriate decision for the second track, if we choose to build a third pier, the search for the concessionaire or the public-private partnership. This raises another question. How much European money and how effective were we in drawing on European money to build a second track? We had the opportunity to have 385 million euros from the so-called CEF funds on hand. At the time, at the initiative of New Slovenia, there was also an urgent meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, when we noted that we did not adequately comply with the procedures for only applying for this CEF call. We were really unsuccessful. Last February we actually applied very poorly, without knowing how to fund the project. What has changed since then? Do we know how to finance the project after a year and a half? Not yet. If this same call comes forward tomorrow, we will still be unsuccessful in obtaining €400 million. When we are at the second track, or when we are talking about the Coast and Primorski, it is also worth mentioning the tolling of the section of the state road H 6 Koper-Isol. To date, the New Slovenia Group has pointed out a number of outstanding questions about this method of tolling in this section. At the urgent meeting of the Infrastructure Committee more than a year ago, we stressed that Slovenian tourism is one of the main economic sectors of our country, especially the 47km coastal zone for the inhabitants of Slovenia's Istria being a source of livelihood. In the fact that there is only a quarter of the coast in the 5 km coast and that only a quarter of the coast is natural, compulsory tolling on the newly built section of Koper-Isol is unacceptable, especially for the local population. It is therefore an additional burden on the people of Istria who did not pay the toll until the tunnel was opened in this section. And then, then, strongly opposed a year ago, and today, when we're interpreting, it's a huge decision that this tunnel will be excluded from the tolling system by the vignette system. So, despite our well-intentioned calls and the calls of the locals, the minister in the past has not been prepared to listen to these needs until the interpolation comes to the door. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government and well-respected Minister, in the future I wish you a successful job, because it seems that you will continue your interpretation. In the second half, you have a really great deal of work to do – as far as the financial structure is concerned, it should be closed when we applied for the CEF, and today, after a year and a half, it is not closed. In Novi Slovenije, we will vote in favour of the decision-making decision, the slow steps and the reasons mentioned in the position just mentioned. But, Mr. Secretary, in the next half of the day, listen more to the opposition's ideas that we gave a year and a half ago in the construction of the second track and, for example, in the toll system, in the construction and updating of roads, we were somehow unheard of. We wish you a success.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u12	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The Group of Non-Aligned Members has contributed signatures to this interpretation. Why? Due to numerous problems at the Ministry of Infrastructure: problems around the second track, problems around the third development axis and the protection of critical infrastructure, if I only expose the biggest. The reasons are both political and professional. Of course, the second chance to launch Slovenia into the world is an opportunity to put Primorska on a European map. This is mainly about the conflict between the coastal region and the centre and where the decision-making power is. The corridors that are being established appear to bypass Slovenia. It is a Baltic corridor, it is a pan-European corridor and here is the strategic importance of Slovenia. It is important here for the economy, for the development of Slovenia and for the multiplier effects. The Ministry must create policies, seek solutions, but not only represent visions, which then do not have realisation in projects that are capable of being implemented. Getting the European Union's funds – here we are all getting ahead of ourselves, here we have not fulfilled our promises, the government has achieved nothing in this area. Moreover, our secretary and all those who advocate European funds in the European Union have not contributed enough here. Violeta Bulc stated that she was more committed to the route that would connect Koper with Trieste, which would give rise to Italian interests that the railway would push Slovenia out of strategic corridors through Pontebbe. As far as Italy and Austria are concerned, they know exactly what to do: they are building a railway. This is an infrastructure that is important for the development of the economy and that is done by public funds. Of course, they are successful in drawing funds from the European Union. This is a critical infrastructure that is being protected everywhere in Europe, because they know that this is the future of the economy. It is about hiding in this project many other projects, such as the port administration, such as the privatisation of Luke, because this is only important for multinationals who are increasingly in control of the world. In fact, three stories are intertwined; the first story – the construction of a second track, which appears to be the most expensive version and the most untransparent. The second story is the privatisation of logistics. Logistics is still important for the further development of the economy and many profits are being made here and taxes are being collected. Apparently, the country won't have any of this. What about Luca Koper and the third pier? And the third is a story that's not transparent. If we focus on the second track, it was an election theme and an election promise, which was not realized in the coalition treaty. If I focus on the multiple effects; the effects that exceed the costs of investing in the second track are shown in the positive effects of Luka Koper, the positive effects on Slovenian railways, the positive effects on logistics companies and companies linked to such transport. We always forget these effects and look only at the costs that should be associated with the second track. Of course, apart from the political issue, the most important professional issue is the private-public partnership. As such, private-public partnerships are known everywhere in Europe. Colleagues from Sweden have warned me that even with them, where controls are very good and transparent, private-public partnerships appear to be about public money, private earnings and public responsibility. As we have set up the project, as the Government expects the project to be carried out, this is exactly what it shows. Comparably, if we look at such projects, especially for the construction of tracks, there are no projects in Europe, of course, some of them are in partnership between local self-government, but they are more passenger services than transport, which is still important for the economy. Austria, Switzerland and others are building with public funds. If we look at the case of France as some of the most modern railways and infrastructure, we see that they have also given up on the public-private partnership. It is a very good example of England, where they went into the privatisation of railways years ago, but they have found that there are many threats to both safety and others, that infrastructure is falling apart and that private interest has no idea after the renewal of routes, new investments, but only looks at profits and for security they do not care. That is why we have witnessed many railway accidents in the past. Do we want such a form of private-public partnership? If we look even more at history, the construction of the railroad in America east-west and the appearance of the tycoons. I believe that we already have enough tycoons in Slovenia and we do not need new ones with such a project. When we look at how the government has embarked on the project, we see that construction is untransparent, that they have decided to build the most expensive building, that it is hidden behind the goal of privatising logistics and that we all thought that Slovenia will become a small Switzerland, but we see that Switzerland and our neighbour Austria are building such projects in a completely different way and that little Switzerland will not become a small Switzerland. The government is following a Congolese model, which is characterised by keeping people in ignorance, that with expensive studies such as studies on the back terminal and similar studies, the project is being auctioned, it is being interpreted in a transparent and creative way. What did the government do? The government has set up a company. Are we now in Slovenia for every tunnel, for every bridge, for every new road we will set up companies? These companies are costing, it would be better to devote this money to the implementation of the second track itself. The government has carried out and is carrying out an audit of a project for which it takes a very long time. We could already perform the audit, know what the real price is – prices have fallen on the market – and what we really need. The establishment of a logistics holding company is again one of the issues of fragmentation of the project. We won't know what it's going to be for, and how it's going to be, and it's going to be harder to control the cash flow. If I finish, Slovenia does not appear to become a small Switzerland with these projects. We will increasingly fragment projects, become less transparent and increasingly conceal financial flows. That is why Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members contributed signatures to such interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government, the Council of Ministers! Let me first say that we respect the institution of parliamentary democracy, such as interpellation, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. In fact, it is the highest parliamentary institution in the hands of the opposition to draw attention to what the coalition is doing, what the government is doing, and in particular to offer us, parliamentary coalition groups, a mirror to help us set up as the legislative branch of the government of its own executive branch. Thus, we respect and welcome from this point of view any reference to the interpretation meetings of the legislative branch. However, see how many oppositions are sitting in this space today? When I counted before I came to speak, the 12 opposition representatives are in this room today. Of the 11 signed opposition representatives who called for interpolation, there are 5 of you here. But if we are going to do such interpretations, we must also seriously ask ourselves about the health of our democracy, not us, but those who choose and convene interpretation sessions in such a way and with such responsibility. You will pay the bills, people will lay them down for you, people for whom you are here and who directly or directly from their wallets also pay you for the work you are doing. Now for the content. Interpellation from the point of view of coalition parliamentary groups, as I have already said, is a mirror — a mirror that we need to set up for our own government as responsible part of the legislative branch of power, in order to lay down accounts on what it has done and how well it has done and what it will do. This is the moment where we face the results of the past work and especially the moment for the coalition part in Parliament, to look forward and to enable our country to maintain positive and promising trends with commitments to the coming work. From this point of view, therefore, it must not be and is not a problem for our Group of Members, the Group of Leaders of the Coalition, to set up this mirror for our own Minister. However, when we took the individual contents and indications of today’s interpolation under scrutiny, we found that the material was unconvincing. Not one of the readings cited by the interpolation proponent, which we are going to be talking about today – I wish we had a little less than or 14 hours in the course of the day, 13 hours of the bad – to discuss. However, according to our assessment, none of these findings can be proved. The Minister has already said something in his introductory presentation, and we will prove a lot through our debate. In this interpretation, the Minister is able to see practically everything that your heart desires in the field of infrastructure; from blocking the construction of a second track, from trying to influence supervisors, to making a personal effort to privatise state infrastructure. More. Minister, you are responsible for the failed electrification of the railway line, which works on the ground and is successfully completed in all criteria. The Prague-Hodoš track is upgraded, modernized, electrified and equipped to reach speeds of up to 160 kilometres per hour. Electrical power plants are being built, level crossings are being arranged, greater rail safety is ensured. Partial and, in particular, temporary closures on a smaller part of the route do not stem from a poorly completed project. The return of all such false allegations to the Minister shall be at least incorrect, if not maliciously. Of course, we all know that the heart of this interpolation does not lie in all of this, but that it touches one project at the other end of Slovenia. Where the whole story revolves, we have been able to get to know it intensively in the past period, especially around money and capital. Today we all know how important it is to build a second track. I'm talking about him. That's no longer a question. For this government, it's just a fact from the start, and obviously there are problems, big problems with that. Slovenia is richer by awakening, especially with the renewed launch of the second track project; it is richer for a strategically extremely important, modern and sustainablely effective project, from which we can look forward to a number of so-called multiplier effects both in the area of economic development, logistics and development, including in terms of the acquisition of new jobs, but certainly in terms of regional development, both local and wider Slovenian placements in the development region of Europe and beyond. We are certainly aware of the dimension of the dilemma that occurs to every economic man just before and during the implementation phase of such a project. It's normal for them to show up. In line with the commitment to build a second track, this government carried out a series of very concrete activities with one goal – as soon as possible but responsible for the economic implementation of the project. Of course, on the basis of a rational, transparent plan, without hidden accounts, which in the past we have paid citizens and citizens in most of the other major unfinished projects. Let me just mention that, thanks to Minister Gasperšić, we now have the building permit obtained for the entire route of construction of the second track; that since the first day of its mandate, the Government has been working to find the appropriate form of funding, to build the extraction track, and it would be listed, but we will still be in the coming hours. There have been speculations, including by the professional public, that the estimated value of the project is overestimated and the move of the responsible host is to verify and obtain real values. From this point of view, we appreciate the Minister's attitude and also the warning that the burden of this project cannot and must not yet be added to the budget, taxpayers, people, because, you know, in the end, all of this is actually removed from the common account and we cannot take this joint account indefinitely and we cannot take only for the construction of another track, but we must also have in mind the numerous other contents of our lives, which also require taxpayers' money and budget; from social, education, agriculture, care for the environment – if I mention just a few. Many indicators suggest that the Minister is struggling with challenges on the ground, that he is actively and responsibly looking for solutions to those unresolved problems that he has inherited from past governments and these problems in his department, I believe that if we are very honest with each other, we cannot be solved overnight. The story of the second track, this will, above all, be widely known by colleagues from the SDS, if they want to, is the story of a project that has already been launched in previous mandates, but has ended for such or other reasons. It can also be because past governments have not been strong enough or not visionary enough to take it further. A little bit more about this interpretation. It smells of individual interests, the desire to lubricate with state property, the desire to create unrest in the economic and broader social environment. We must do our utmost to overcome reason and to ensure transparency and traceability of decision-making and work, especially when more than a billion euro is worth investing in the game. We must do everything to ensure that our country, under the tactics of honest and responsible leaders, including, and especially, political leaders, remains on the side of the future, of development, of caring for people. People who deserve a promising economy, a social, social climate and the conditions for them to develop their potential without unnecessary burdens of history and ideology – with those two elements that some in our country are trying to abuse at the expense of their own people and their own interests. The vote of the Modern Centre Party, our parliamentary group, today is signed by Minister Peter Gasperšič and we will continue to argue this with the facts and I believe that we are constructively discussing the findings of the interpretation. Don't make any mistake. To conclude, once again, in the ranks of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we openly accept the debate on the work and responsibility of any member of our government, because Parliament in its essence, in its core, represents the central place of debate and responsibility, the attitude towards people, our society and our country. It is right and we support the opportunity that has been given to us today by, as we say, the opposition or signatories, who are increasingly few – now that I am closing this debate, there are two remaining in the room – we support this opportunity to show citizens and citizens how much this government has done in the first two years in the area of infrastructure. In spite of the unenviable circumstances in which we have also started the story in this area, and in particular the incentives we need to grab them immediately, so that we can continue the projects planned without delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u15	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This government and also Madam President of the largest party obviously goes no further than binary thinking. The opposition consists of a whole range of actors. We're here. It is true, however, that of the five Members and of the Members of the United Left, we must do a number of other work during the interpretation, mainly because your laws are weak, Summarian, unconstitutional and so on. You too could be a lot more often or you're sitting here, and there are a lot of you here, and you're like, excuse me, deaf. Please, we've listened enough to morale in two years. Two years ago and two days ago, I told Mr. Cerar to stop being a moral theologian, let's go to work. But you're still too many moral theologians. It's not a study of theology. It's the National Choir. Please, Comrade Brglez, teach this to the doctor of political science. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u17	I think that I will teach the Doctor of Sociology in particular that there is a procedure in the National Assembly and that at the time when the views of the groups are explained, there is no problem with procedural ones which are totally unfounded. They are in no way different from what everyone else in the National Assembly cites as an argument. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u18	Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I fully agree with colleague Simono Kustec Lipicer in her introductory debate when she said that the work of Members would be assessed by citizens. I completely agree with you. The government coalition assembly is a great incentive for young people who serve and seek bread abroad. Well, not just that. Today, they drive children to kindergarten abroad, today they drive children to schools abroad, and they also buy drugs there because they are cheaper. They're really going to evaluate the citizens. Now for the interpolation. Dear Minister Peter Gasperšič, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will assess your work from a professional point of view, which will be supported by factual arguments, not by an approach to political or opposition aspects. Let's do it in a row. First, let's look at the commitments you've entered into the coalition contract for your department. It is said that these are your records: All in one place, the project I know, the establishment of a national traffic management centre – the link is not realized; the financing of mandatory public services – the commitment is not realized; the adoption of the Infrastructure Development Strategy – the commitment is realised. However, this was not followed by concreteness in the implementation programme which you, Minister, promised to be in the first part of this year. Harmonisation of the railway system organisation with the European directives in this area – the commitment is realised; integration of public passenger transport – the commitment is realised with this year 1. 9, it's not quite finished yet, it's a lot of trouble, but it's a start. Speeding up the development of broadband networks – the commitment is not implemented. If I look at the points of interpolation tabled below, I would like to make the following arguments. Unresponsible management of the second track project, Divača-Koper. The undeniable fact is that it was known in advance that the application to the CEF open invitation to tender would be unsuccessful as the financial structure was not closed. Why did we even run and cause costs? A new call for cohesion countries is coming in the following month, and at the end of October, the Divača-Koper project is still not ready to meet the tender criteria. An audit of the project has not yet been made to verify the estimated value, nor has it yet produced an investment programme to close the financial structure. Next. Suspected of unlawful influence on the guards Dars and Luke Koper. It's two of the largest state-owned companies and under your Ministry's department. Both companies record very good business results, and you have tried to influence the replacement of supervisory councils as well as the management itself. This was confirmed by the Witnesses concerned by their statements. On Dars, you succeeded, but not on the basis of an expert argument, but a purely political point of view. You didn't make it in Luka Koper, and despite the fact that there's no excuse for it to lead and manage SDH. It was also unreasonable to appoint an additional 6 supervisors at HSE, Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. Yeah, replacing supervisors was hard work! It was much easier to name six new ones. Is that rational? Next point. Modernisation and electrification of the Prague-Hodos railway line. As big a project as the modernisation and electrification of the railway line Prague-Hodoš, it must not hang in the air in any particular detail in the construction. It is a waste of the necessary power supply due to the unbuilt remote Murska satu-Cats. The result and consequence of all this is that trains will drive slower than planned. A little less than €500 million should by no means be invested, despite the fact that the construction of the project has not taken place under your ministry. I'd like to draw your attention to the other facts. There is no implementation plan for the transport development strategy to be adopted this year. There is an inadequate approach in the modernisation of railway infrastructure, which will encourage and prolong the implementation of projects. I give an example: the establishment of a state-owned company for the construction of a second track project, Divača-Koper, for 27 kilometres of track. Comparison: Even highway sections in Slovenia had a very difficult construction (Black Kal, Trojane), and we did not set up a state-owned company for any department. How many state-owned companies in Slovenia would we have if we set up a new state-owned company for every 27km section? Is that rational? Delays in the introduction of a single ticket for integrated public passenger transport, which has not been followed by a re-financing of public passenger transport, are also noted by the Court of Auditors. It is unreasonable to encourage the GSMR project, which has grown from 117 million to 144 million, and it is, I would say, a fairly fixed project, not a deepening of land or a fact that would not be known in advance. There's no reason to encourage. Dear Minister, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wish to help you constructively through the drafting of laws as well as with the proposed amendments to provide additional funds for infrastructure projects. Thus we have introduced two laws, the Law on the Construction of Transport Infrastructure and the Law on the provision of funds that are exclusively intended, amounting to 500 million per year for the construction of public transport infrastructure. However, there was also no support from the Ministry for the proposed legislation. Nor have you managed to negotiate enough funds for the normal operation of the station in the government; there are only 160 million missing for the renovation and maintenance of roads. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have prepared two amendments for an additional EUR 50 million for roads and EUR 30 million for railways, but we have been voted on by the coalition. In your opening statement today, you provided information that you are pleased that 334 road operations will take place this year — more than 800 of them five years ago. And putting the third development axis in the north, in the section against Velenje. I don't think you're acting hard enough here, because the main culprit for blocking the project of the third development axis is the SD party, which has everything in its hands, but things don't move anywhere at all. There is no progress or completion time for the Postojna-Yelšana motorway section project, as well as for the Jagodje-Lucija project. Of course, you should also be commended constructively for successfully completing the bishop’s bypass as well as for a large number of bridge facilities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u19	Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u20	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting to the Council of Ministers, also a nice greeting to Minister Peter Gasperšič. Dear colleague and colleague, nice greeting! We are here today to work together to determine whether Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, still enjoys our support, as an interpretation of work and responsibility was introduced against him earlier this summer. It is true that since the investment and developments in Luka Koper, which led investors to interpellation, it has been quite a while and the memory may not be fresh, but some of the issues from this hot June cannot be overlooked. At the time, Minister Gasperšič was not the most skilled with the media and not the public. I'm not going to repeat Luke Koper's story, because we all know each other well. Our group visited the port at the time, but not by accident, but it was planned to get better acquainted with the situation on the ground, so today I find it unwise from the minister that Luke Koper himself and her administration and the workers did not visit. If the minister had acted differently at that time, perhaps we would not be sitting here for 14 hours discussing his work or his work. It is no secret that we are critical in our Group to Minister Gasperšić. You could tell him a lot of things, including all the promises he's made lately. Let us hope that this is not just about pre-interpretation candy, but about the commitment to work and solving infrastructure problems that are not missing from us. Only in the case of wine and the Markovec tunnel, which the minister has always claimed could not be excluded from the wine system, but today he promises that wine will no longer be necessary. We hope that the Minister has not changed his mind just because of the interpretation that has been put in place, but because of the well-founded reasons, such as the positive effects on the Coastal – tourism, the unloading of the local road, after all, the Ottoman agreements. At the same time, we are interested in what Dars thinks about you under a harmless regime on the Coast and whether you are supported by the President of the Government. In the Desus Group, we strongly supported the construction of the second track of the Koper-Divič railway, because we believe, and here also let the profession confirm that Slovenia needs the second track and the competition ports breathe for us as a collar. Our president, Minister Erjavec, as foreign minister, is having a hard time explaining why we are not building the track yet. It is high time that the Minister of the Project took the project seriously; and here is the heart of the problem. Minister Gašperšič is not considered the biggest proponent of the project, since he already said at his hearing that there is no need for the second track and we have already cut our ears. Today the situation is supposed to be different; the minister has changed his mind, the government supports the project and the ministry prepares all the necessary documentation. But the skepticism remains, it seems to us that the minister is too ambitious, that he has a bad team, that he is too indecisive and that things are moving too slowly. We did not hide that we hesitated to vote today, but we decided to support the Minister. Not because we think Dr. Gasperšič is an excellent minister, but because we would believe that he is wholeheartedly committed to the second track project and the third development axis, but to maintain political stability. Stanka Desus is a constructive member of the coalition, we are a reliable partner, and it is clear to us that the President of the Government is the one who puts and removes ministers and ministers. We respect the President of the Government, and if Dr Cerar believes that Minister Gasperšič enjoys his trust, then we have no major problem. But we have a problem if things don't move forward. We therefore expect Minister Peter Gasperšič to explain by the end of the year how he will finance the second track and what the value of the project will be. We also expect a clear response if the second track is financed through a public-private partnership, how this private partner will also be paid. The minister has already said that the concession in Luka Koper will not be shared. The port administration is supposed to remain united, which we agree with, but that is why our issue is even more relevant. We want the Minister to meet our condition for today's support and to plant next year's first shovel on the construction of this necessary track. At the end of September, the project will be completed and we will find out how much it will cost us all, so we estimate that the Minister has enough time with the team by the end of the year to successfully run for European funds and finally close the financial structure of the project. Today we will support the minister because we want him to succeed. But if he fails, he will lose our trust. We expect the Prime Minister of the Government to accept responsibility for himself and finally replace the Minister. After all, we and colleagues in the SD have already paid our ministerial tax and if we are partners, we are partners in good and bad. We are giving Minister Gasperšić another opportunity, and we expect him to make a firm commitment to do his best with the team to get this 26km rail track as soon as possible. We also expect the construction of the third development axis, including the Koro highway and the tunnel under the Gorjanci, to be accelerated. Slovenia has an extremely strategic position, and we must take advantage of all its development potentials, and therefore we need a minister who is determined and visionary, we need a minister who hopes. Minister Gaszperšič, I know you have good intentions, but I'm sure you're a little indecisive; first in your ministry, then elsewhere. Since we are putting the stability of this country first, we will not support the proposed interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The debate between Members and Members on the interpretation is followed. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you, Vice President. Following these views and presentations, I would briefly respond to certain statements, and we are in line with what Mr Minister said in his explanation of the reply. As far as the first point is concerned, this is the update of the Prague–Hodoš line. When we wrote the interpolation, this event almost exactly happened or happened a few weeks ago, and the fact is that at the time it was discovered that there was a problem and that these remotes had not yet been properly installed, but the question is not whether this problem then went away, that now, let's say that this modernisation is successful and that diesel locomotives are slowly withdrawing electrically. The thing is, actually, someone is responsible for this thing. The fact is that this is not the worst thing we read to you in interpretation far away from this, but on the one hand, as I have already said in the beginning, when I put on the table certain answers to your response to the interpretation, I have already said that in some ways you are responsible as Minister for the whole project, so not only for the infrastructure part or the part concerning the modernisation of the track, but also for the electrification. Finally, you are also responsible for the field of energy. So to blame the contractor, that is Elektro Maribor, that this error occurred, and to talk about the success of this project force in some way contradictory. In short, you are partly responsible for the lack of electricity at the time when this happened, even though you went to cut the tapes and take pictures for the media. As far as the privatisation of public infrastructure is concerned. I repeat, this was not about any alignment with the current situation, it was not about aligning things with a management strategy that allows new stakeholders to enter far from this. The strategy is clear, it speaks of the fact that the shares of this company can be sold when expressing legitimate needs. I think it was something completely different here, so some other logic. Therefore, the aim was not to ensure that the law was consistent with the investment management strategy, but was to bring the law into line with what some plans or visions are. Ensuring the proper development of subsidiaries, as you mentioned, namely the need for new capital, new clients and so on, a strategic business plan – we are talking here about acts, some documents that are subordinated to the law and which should themselves adapt to what are legal requirements. I repeat, when the Slovenian Railways Act was amended, it was a reverse logic – you went to amend the law in such a way that it is consistent with the management strategy, even though it is not true, because the management strategy clearly speaks of the possibility of privatising subsidiaries in the event that the needs are expressed and with the development strategy of the company, which SDH has also adopted. So, in a way, with two documents that were actually adopted contrary to the law, because the law clearly says that such privatisation is not possible. The aim of the amendment of this law is nothing more than the privatisation of public infrastructure, the Slovenian Railway – Freight Transport and also roof companies. There is practically no other reason here, no other aspect to speak contrary. In short, the fact is that it is a business, at least for freight, which operates in profit, it is practically the only subsidiary in the Slovenian Railways Group, which is such, i.e. profitable, and one of them is the infrastructure manager. Thus, the amendment of this law does not speak of anything other than that public infrastructure can be privatised. Further, as far as the suspicions of influence on the supervisors are concerned. You said there's no evidence that we're talking about suspicions, obviously, but there's no comprehensible obviouss about the time dimension. You said that these overseers did not come forward until the announcement of the replacement of these overseers occurred. On the one hand, people talk about it, usually never happens the moment, say, when a person gets a call from a minister or some other impulse, but in fact people get courage and reveal it later. However, I think it is crucial in this question that this shows, unfortunately, a recurring model. In short, much ahead of Luka Koper was Dars, in both cases, two people specifically accused you of trying to influence them, as well as Luke Koper's administration, for example, as regards the opening of a concession contract as an agreement on a public-private partnership and so on. In short, these are indications that this is clearly one of your methods of action. As far as the suspicions of influence are concerned, in some ways you do not reject these suspicions with some concrete arguments, but only with principled defence. But in a way, I would point out one more thing, and that's how many times you change your mind. I think that's what he's saying, let's say, about some consistency. In January this year, you replied to your colleague Ferlugi that you would grant a concession for the third pier in Luka Koper, and in February you did the same thing for Work, and now you are pretending in some way that this was not the case. In September you argued that the second track would not be needed for another 40 years – I say then – and now you are saying that it is your priority. In short, there appears to be some inconsistence or very rapid change of attitude. Last we heard of these pre-interpretation mints. I asked you last year about the possibility of removing the Markovac tunnel from the toll system. At that time you categorically claimed that this would be contrary to the law, unfair to other users of motorways or roads within the toll system in Slovenia and would only endanger Darsa's operation. In fact, a few days before the interpolation, you come out with exactly this idea to change the qualifications of this tunnel, this road, and to remove it from the toll system in fact, which is also, in my opinion, still constitutes discrimination against other users of motorways in Slovenia and, of course, threatens this financial sustainability of Darsa. Changing your views is a very common phenomenon in you, so simply say, "I didn't influence the overseers," doesn't convince me, because I just can't trust you in this way. Here I would also like to point out how some others have been involved in this story, particularly with Luke Koper, actually paid some responsibility for their statements. Here I am referring to former Secretary of State Draganjo and CEO of SHD Jazbec. They resigned precisely because of what statements they made about Luke Koper's poor business and, of course, after long pressure. It was precisely because of these contradictory statements made by them that, for other reasons, they also withdrew. Minister, you are the only one who insists on this change of attitude and does not accept responsibility for it. As for the second track, and this is of course the heart of this interpolation, I agree, in some way you indicated that there was never a question: the second track yes or no. Another deceiving. From the magnetogram at your presentation in September 2014, it is clear that you said several things that indicate that at that time, at least if I say so, you felt that we did not need another track. As you said, not for at least 30, 40 years, because traffic has already been diverted against Italy and Austria, which at that point did not hold and still does not hold, because you are still building this corridor and so on. You said you had adopted a transport development programme. There is still an open question and I repeat this question. There are 6.8 billion investments, and in six years there is only one public-private partnership, and this is the second track. Why the second track? It seems quite clear to me, especially because there is no way to do any related business elsewhere, so to offer a private investor something extra, something more. The second track offers this formula. And I still believe that this is the case, too, because if not, it is very incomprehensible how in six years it is possible to give 6.8 billion for investment in public infrastructure, not for just one project. You have said, and here is also another fairly frank deception, that the Government has adopted a port development programme that envisions €300 million of investment. The fact is, Luca Koper is the one who prepared this program and the government just confirmed it. They are also these investments, these 300 million, the investments of Luke Koper, not the government or the state. It's a similar story with an extraction track. It is constantly repeated in some way that the extraction track is either the beginning or the opening part for the construction of the second track, which is totally not true. This extraction track is one whole and a few kilometres of track that serves as a complement to the existing track, and also on your official Ministry’s website you state that it is not a second track, but that it is only an additional aid or capacity that would try at this time, while the second track is gone, to alleviate problems with traffic saturation on this track. Here we come to the assurances you have given to the Group of Social Democrats, which are once again in complete conflict with the other public views you have given both as Prime Minister Cerar. You said behind closed doors there would be no concessions and there would be no privatisation. What you have obviously promised Members of the Social Democrats is contrary to what was your official position and also the official position of the Prime Minister. Here I quote your answer to one of the questions sent by 2. 9. 2016, I quote: "With the law currently in pre-resort coordination, 2TKK, d.o.o. is expected to be awarded a concession for the construction and management of the new railway connection to the second line of Divaca-Koper, the management of the existing route and additional pre-storage capacity and other, with the logistics of related activities." Here is perhaps also the question for those who met with you last week and also provide support for how to ensure the profitability of this investment for private foreign investors. The idea that, for example, the capital would be contributed by Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways is completely impossible. You are opposed to the idea that Dars would take credit for investing in the construction of the second track, because he is too indebted and because there is a risk that this debt or loan will be reclassified to public debt, but the consortium Republic of Slovenia-Luka Koper-Slovenian Railway presents exactly the same risk. It is also possible for two major state-owned companies, including the state and Eurostat, to take over this consortium if this consortium were to be indebted, to simply turn it into a public debt because it is two companies owned by a majority of the state. So once again: the answers you give are not consistent with what you once said or with what you still say, and I think they are different deceptions. Next. You mentioned investing 100 million in upgrading the existing track. Here you are again boasting in some way about the achievements of others. On the one hand, you speak as if you had put it out of your own pocket, and on the other hand let us make it clear to all that these investments have started long before this government's mandate. You're just concluding something that was built long before your ministry. You have also said that you are committed to the sovereignty of Slovenia. 2. 9. 2016 again in response to one of the questions sent, you stated that in addition to the concession for the construction of the second track, you would also grant a concession for the execution of the existing track. In this way, 2TKK, which will be owned by the majority of this foreign capital or even by foreign countries, will manage our only connection between the port and the rest of the world. So, even more nonsense. Next. You said you were proposing a public-private partnership because of your poor experience with TES 6. Bad experiences with TER 6 may give us some particular experience and appropriate caution. And now you're suggesting we go into another bad experience, that is, into the unknown. The public-private partnership in such a form as is now proposed has never been prepared, we have no experience with such a way of financing the construction of infrastructure, and in this way the question is very simply raised that we can once again burn and with another track, we make another TES 6 precisely because we will build something without experience. You also acted as some kind of rhetorical question, which concludes your chronic argument in that you are for the second track, how this government is supposed to block the second track when you set up a company called 2TKK. I think it's a tactic that will eventually offer no other alternative. By your force or force you privatize infrastructure management and expensive and, of course, harmful and in some ways impossible project. You also said that whoever is against the public-private partnership is against the second track. I think it is quite the opposite here; the one that is for the public-private partnership is against the second track because we repeat all the risks that exist with such a way of financing. The question is whether someone will be willing to invest in such an investment, when such an investment can be started at any time and, of course, at any price; and here I am not only thinking about the price of construction itself, but also at the price of taxpayers and whether we will privatise any of these companies. As far as the financing of the second track is concerned, one more question, or something of key importance, I restate the assurances you gave to the SD Group regarding concessions. Similar requirements, so that there is no privatisation to prevent the break-up of the concession contract with Luka Koper in order not to grant new concessions, were handed over to you and to the Prime Minister of the Government by Luke Koper workers in July this year. These are the requirements, I think there were 10 of them, and here are clearly talking about the fact that in some way the Government is required not to seek a solution for the new award of concessions in the port of Koper and that the Government will not stand for the inclusion of Luka Koper in the logistics holding or other capital connection, which you are proposing in some way when you talk about this investment model Republic of Slovenia-Luka Koper-Slovenia Railway. They're employees of you, and above all, the Prime Minister has been asked to do so by 7. 7. The call was repeated on 1 September and no reply has yet been received. I also asked a very specific question at the previous meeting of the Prime Minister, which concessions for other transhipment facilities would be awarded to a private investor and whether this included concessions for a third pier and there was no answer. There was no answer or guarantee that Luka Koper would retain all the concessions it has in the area of the port of Koper. The question is as follows. You have assured the Group of Social Democrats that there will be no concessions and there will be no privatisation. Why don't you do it in public? Why, when you have convinced, say, fellow Members on my left, you do not come up with these arguments a day in public, and you also commit yourself publicly that these concessions will not be privatised, and as a result also answer the questions of colleagues from Desus, how this project will be financed, with an accurate financial structure. As far as your presentation is concerned, I would like to conclude with some other way of concluding. You said you tied your mandate to the start of construction in 2017. Initially, the French route, or the rapid route between Tours and Bordeaux – is a similar case, with similar funding, with a public-private partnership. From the publication of the tender for the start of construction until the actual signature of the contract between the State and the private partner, four years have passed. We or the ministry at this stage are not yet in a position to issue an invitation to tender for construction, so the predictions are that we could start working at the end of 2017 are completely unrealistic and point to another, in my opinion, rather reckless statement you made; such a statement, which at the end also does not have the appropriate basis for keeping it, or even fulfilling that promise. I think that many experts also explain that such models are actually very complex and also long-lasting. Some thus allow the possibility that, under favourable and ideal conditions, such construction could begin between 2021 and 2022. What I wanted to mention was the role of 2TKK. This decision to set up this company – some have already pointed out that this move is very specific, that a particular project is set up by a particular company that takes care of this project – means a postponement or further delay in the start of the second track. By setting up a company that has the task of preparing everything necessary by the end of this year or by 2017, or in describing the tasks of this company, it is necessary to prepare everything necessary for the construction to begin, to say nothing but that the start of this construction will be delayed even longer than in 2017. In turn, it is also a matter of a move that will benefit them in a certain way. We know that 2TKK will spend about €6 million on studies, so this will probably be a good resource for those preparing these studies. Thus, the role of 2TKK on the basis of your statement is quite clear – as in some way represents 2TKK delaying the construction of this project, especially because it has chosen such a complex model as a public-private partnership, it is also your statement of resignation in the event that work does not start in 2017, to read in a similar way. In short, when the public and others realize that this has not actually occurred, that the track has not yet been built for such or otherwise, we will be practically six months before the elections, and probably there will be no harm if we give up or if we do not. Thus, it may be thoughtless, or it may be thoughtful, as far as the clock is concerned. To conclude, once again: the only realistic option we have to start building the second track is public funding. Here we have cases in Europe, Austria, Italy, as well as Switzerland, all of them are building from public funds. Even though Austria and Italy have much worse public financial indicators than Slovenia has. Thus, I do not agree with the excuses that the fiscal rule must be followed, but the Stability Pact and so on, because with a little will and effort, this can also be avoided. So, there are models, they have been presented, which would be cheaper and, as a result, more quickly build a second track, Minister, and you remain at the fact that the public-private partnership is actually the only solution, and you are tying the whole project to this solution. So, either a public-private partnership or nothing. These are some of the answers to your question. As for the positions of the parliamentary groups, which I will not even comment on, but now at a time when the debate is likely to become the most interesting – for example, Kustec Lipicer's colleagues are not in the hall, even though she wanted to hear the mirror offered by the opposition to the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Given that most of the readings from the interpolation are flying on the second track, I too will be standing around the second track and around everything related to it in the debate. When I reviewed these articles over the years, I saw that the intensity of pressure on the second track began in 2012 under then Minister Chernač. At that time, Minister Chernač determined whether this investment was even considered in the second indent, whether it was necessary and, if necessary, how we could make it. Then comes the government of Alenka Bratušek and Minister Samo Omerzel, who are looking for how this second track could be built, and are setting out some of the challenges that could be done in a much cheaper way than this estimated second track value — a billion four hundred. When our government and Minister Gasperšič came along, he essentially inherited the state of affairs. And I'll go back there later. What's the real problem? What's this all about? It's actually a conflict of some interests. If we look in the grave, we can look at some triangle where we have politics, Luka Koper and Slovenian railways. Each of these has its own view and each has its own interest. If we look at the policy, if we say on behalf of the Government's policy; it is certainly the government that advocates the second track to be built, recognises the need for a second track and looks for options on how these investments will come to an end or to the end of this investment. Then we have Slovenian railways, which are very cooperative and willing to cooperate, are also willing to invest in this investment. Then we have a media lead actor, that's Luka Koper. Luke Koper demands that the second track be built, and in the same breath they say they will not even give the euro for what is undoubtedly a kind of paradox, given that it is Luke Koper who will have the most of this investment in the second track. And of course, the main question in the whole story is money. If we had the money unlimited, then this second track would probably have started to build. In all these pressures, there is an attempt to show that Minister Gasperšič is blocking the second track project. On the contrary, the Government is putting a great deal of effort into this project, and it is not until now, in this mandate, that the construction permit for the second track is obtained, that the financial structure is sought and, before that, that project is in the phase of completion of the ventilation project. We can probably all agree that any good master with such an extensive financial project and with information that this financial assessment is exaggerated so that it can be built for less – at least what it is – would be very deep into whether this number is right or not. Probably none of us want to, but perhaps one of the politicians — certainly not from our party — would like this project to start right away, just to start working, even though we have only 200 million in our pocket right now. We'll do it! But this "we will" – we know how it ends. Then it goes from 400, 600 to a billion 400 — TER 6. I don't think this country can afford another such project in its future history. The Minister, when he took over this area, also took over this project and took over a project that did not have a building permit, the government inherited a cash register that was in red numbers, which we managed to repair in two years, but we do not have a billion 400 out of our pocket now. And yet, there's always talk about the overestimation of this project. Here I would just quote former Prime Minister Alenko Bratušek, who stated in October 2013 that "for 27 kilometres the country's track cannot provide 1.4 billion euros, which is 52 million euros per kilometer. It will be necessary to find a solution that will not be difficult for another TES 6", she replied on the second track question. Furthermore, what was answered by the then Minister of Infrastructure, Samo Omrzel, also in October 2013. I quote, "by all the information we have, I hope that the second track can be done for half the price." End of quote. Really? I hope so. What if 1.4 billion is too small? I am convinced that if this value were to be and this value was to be found to be 700 million, then the approach to funding was significantly different and significantly faster. In such a scenario, the State of Slovenia is likely to be able to finance this by itself. As long as we don't know until this project's over, we don't really know where we are now financially, we're just guessing. Of course, the opposition and the proponents speculate with this number and with all this and build on this today's interpolation. The most paradoxical thing to me is that, in fact, the biggest inhibitor of the project is Luke Koper, which is really a paradox that really is hard to understand. This is because of the private interests of some in Luka Koper and some related to Luka Koper. In order to achieve these interests, or better said to preserve these interests, they are willing to violate both the legislation and to cause economic damage to the country and not least to their home company in Luka Koper. Why am I saying this? Let me remind you of the July blockade of Luke Koper – we know what it was. I am not going to start now how these events took place at the time and how they got out of control probably also those who were in fact done in some way, but we know that this July blockade of Luke Koper actually caused chaos in Slovenian logistics. The chaos in Slovenian logistics, which has led certain foreign logists to switch their cargo to our competitive ports – River, Trst. That is to say, those who supported and created these events in Cyprus actually stabbed themselves in the heart. And of course, they played this emotional card somewhere. We know that the coast has some kind of "some allergy" against Ljubljana, which means everything and the government and everything is bad in Ljubljana. Indeed, they also have very poor experience in their history – we know what Mr Bavčar has devastated the coast and coastal economy and in some ways it has been very easy to take advantage of the local population to support the protection of these precisely interests of a handful. Whoever pays for this damage, we have not yet spoken in this House. The bills are coming. Slovenian railways require compensation of EUR 1.7 million. What the contractual partners will do, we don't know yet. These damages could be in millions. However, part of the policy also played an active role in these events, which took place in July. Here I am thinking mainly of one of the proposals of the United Left. It is also significant, or significant, that the motioners claimed that the Minister had unlawfully tried to influence Luke Koper’s supervisors. Given that it has been a while since then and that we now have an interpretation in the National Assembly, I have nowhere to see any evidence that this is so — that the statements made by that overseer are true. Because if they were, then I believe that today the proponents of this interpretation would wave this evidence and then probably the outcome of the interpolation should be different, but since it's not, it's up to some speculation again. That's it. This claim that the minister tried to influence it comes from a person who clearly has a very strong interest in Luka Koper, a very strong personal financial interest and, as such, is of course completely uncreditable throughout this story. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the duality of the second part of the proposalr, or specifically of Ambassador Alenka Bratušek, who is currently not in there, but I am sorry. She is often a struggle for justice, but she was the one who in Luka Koper illegally resolved or influenced the unlawful resolution of Mr Gaspar Gaspard Misic, who was then president of the administration. No matter what my opinion might be about him, it was political pressure and illegal resolution. I wonder what will happen next – I believe she will respond to this statement or to this fact – she will comment. I would also like to touch on the obvious that the Minister is seeking to privatise the state of infrastructure, as recorded. They wrote, quote, "leads a policy that leads to the privatisation of the most important parts of Slovenian railway and port infrastructure in the long term". End of quote. Once again, as has already been said, Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways are defined in the State Asset Management Strategy as strategic investments and as such are not and cannot be sold, any privatisation or anything. I can't go past this political betrayal of co-proposer Alenka Bratušek again. I would like to remind you of her mandate and the sale of the Ljubljana Aerodrome. If, on the one hand, you report to the interviewer that he is leading the policy of a minister leading to the privatisation of the most important parts of the railway and port infrastructure – was Ljubljana Airport not the most important part of the airport infrastructure in the country? And yet it sold out! If this isn't a case-by-case hypocrisy for the applicants, then I don't know what it is. To conclude, I have in mind those July events. Applicants, United Left, suggest that you be constructive and do no harm to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. 180 years old, 1837 began planning one of the largest infrastructure projects so far, this is the construction of the so-called southern railway. In fact, it ended unfavorably in the hands of private capital, which in some way forced the then government – I am talking about the then Austro-Hungarian – that it had to look for alternatives. And with some historical distance we can say, at least in Slovenia, that this alternative is a pearl for us – I am talking about the Bohinian track. Thus came the so - called second track that connected Trieste with Vienna along another, Alpine, difficult path. This Bohinian track is now located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Why I speak of history — we must learn from history if we can, from the mistakes of others, that we will not do them. In fact, when we talk about the second track – and this will most likely be the red thread of today's performances in the National Assembly – I can say that the Social Democrats always proudly defend one position, which is not only political blue, but also geopolitical blue, I hope, that the entire infrastructure and progress of construction takes place to the greatest extent in Slovenian hands. When I talk about possible interpretations from the past – and here is also the message to Minister Gasperšić from the interpretation – to look for alternative ways to get to the funds that are so urgently needed. We are talking about one major infrastructure intervention in our lives. Indeed, with dialogue with Minister Gasperšić on his ideas, we have reached a framework that could be based mainly on Slovenian behaviour, knowledge and property – I am talking about bringing together the so-called public and private. And the private is not anyone, the private are the Slovenian railways and the Port of Koper. This is at least some framework, certain adjustments will be needed, but some framework that would give what we would like to say to Slovenia that Slovenian knowledge and capital can make the breakthrough that we all need together for further development, not only – and this I would like to stress – of the coastal economy, but of the entire Slovenian economy. In fact, if such forms of cooperation were to be sought, then, as I myself have often understood, would meet the expectations of the civilian fronts, which has repeatedly warned that it is totally unacceptable to carry out the project in terms of concession contracts or, God forbid, the privatisation of the port of Koper. Which, I think, could also satisfy certain views of the applicants, because our goal and the objective of the applicants are often the same, but we are taking a slightly different path. In fact, we are convinced, nevertheless, that we can and that we can change our opinion more easily than in the case of a advertised minister, whom the proposer has pointed out to him in particular the change of opinion, rather than the change of the Minister himself. For if there were a change, it would not be a guarantee to satisfy all the appetites which we all follow together. These appetites are based primarily on the public-private approach or in the hands of Slovenia and Slovenian companies. The position is clear: The port of Koper must remain in Slovenian hands. This is strategically important and in the coming weeks we expect the Minister to present also the rewinding of the investment plan and the possible rationalisation of this project, because only then can we get the so-called financial framework with which we can start planning in the coming year, as the Minister said, and later build the so-called second track. Indeed, the Social Democrats as part of the government coalition do not have this privilege to simply be a priority against. We have to look for solutions. That is why I will also mention some of the projects that we have been looking for with Minister Gasperšič in particular – solutions, I am talking about solutions. Because, as I have already said, we do not have this privilege of being irresponsible against and in fact to prevent certain projects being implemented and to be implemented in the near future. The circumstances are relatively favourable; not only because Commissioner Bulčev's part is also the largest party in the coalition and leading, not only because the President of the Government himself has personally engaged himself, but mainly because, in recent years, Minister Gasperšič has shown some sincere serious intention of actually moving something in a key sense. I certainly hope that what is the concern of the proposer will not come true, but if this concern is real, it will show time, and we will have to do so again if these times are negative for the development of the second track, it is appropriate to approach it. Therefore, our support is certainly not self-evident. We have highlighted the biggest projects and I will allow myself to continue speaking as a coastal Member, what in some way were those priorities in this area. I am talking mainly about the fast road H4, I am talking about the continuation of the rapid road Jagodje-Lucia and, above all, what I started with, about the continuation and development of the pearl, and this is the Bohinian track. They have a habit abroad that, I'll say, they give content parks some basics and some content. We have the position of Social Democrats that the Bohinian track amusement park is already part of all of us, but we have the content. However, we need to be aware of what its potential is, not only on its 158km railway, I speak in Slovenia, but in general, I am talking about connecting both the Alps, the Adriatic or Austria, Slovenia and Italy. I must say that in the last year, year and a half, important steps have been taken in this regard also with the support of Minister Gasperšić, which in some ways gives us this dimension of understanding not only of infrastructure as such but of what we can endure, but also of 110 years of age. I will touch the fast road H4, this is a Vipava road, which has for seven years in some way been awake and struggling with all ambitions, in order, however, to be an extremely technologically important and difficult project to place anti-aircraft barriers on this fast road. In a way, Minister Gasperšič has carried out certain procedures and we can only hope that they will be in at least three parts, in three segments, when we are talking about fields that in some way would allow the further construction of anti-aircraft barriers across the whole or 18 kilometers. It is also very important that the infrastructure of the asphalt itself is not to talk about the further development of a fast road that would actually link Koper to the border crossing on the Croatian side. To get back, just for the record, on the second track. The pressing issue that will be used as a red thread today in particular in the context of challenging the Minister's authority and impeding him. We are certainly all at the crossroads; either together with the given assurances or simply cut down and in some way also potentially stop certain processes that are already running and running. Social Democrats are not, as I have already said, unconditionally given or will give support to Minister Gasperšić, but with clear concrete assurances, which will also be presented by colleagues with clear timelines. If Minister Gašperšič also proves in the future that his words will actually apply, then he can also count on the support of the Social Democrats. Minister Gašperšič, if this is the case, if you continue to receive support, I want everything good, but especially for the good of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic. Oh, the motioner, I'm sorry. Here you go, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u28	In this way, colleague Zorman, and in some cases his colleague Germany, in some ways, continued with some of the arguments that probably or very likely came from the Ministry. In my opening remarks, I think that there is a tendency, this was seen in the position presented by the leader of the SMC Group, as well as in what his colleague Zorman said was primarily a story driven by some of his own interests, interests of money and capital, and I realized that in some ways the promoters of this interpretation were also trying to draw on such a level. Of course, I reject that, but I would like to draw attention to exactly what appears to be on the opposite side. As I have already said, 2TKK provides 6 million public money for various studies, salaries for employees reaching relatively high amounts for what they will prepare in this year and a half. I think it's clear here who works for whose interests. Last but not least, once again an exclusivity case in the case of the Slovenian Railways Act, where the law adapts to what has been enshrined in the State Investment Management Strategy and, of course, the Slovenian Railway Business Plan. It is now possible to sell 49% of the state share in these companies through this amendment of the law. We know that the buyer is already ready, Austrian ÖBB and so on. Comrade Zorman raised the question of price. Now we may be talking marginally and initially about some hypothetical price of 1.4 billion, which includes VAT, which in any case will return to the budget, so that we are at the amount of one billion, but it is not that important. The important thing is that we are not attacking the minister because this project would amount to EUR 1 billion, but because it wants to encourage him further, with the formula of the public-private partnership. I repeat, the public-private partnership will be twice as expensive in construction as exclusively public funding. So, despite assurances or concerns about building a project cheaper, we are going to build it more expensive, significantly more expensive, twice as expensive, as confirmed by the colleagues' ministers, Mr. Restorsek, when he said that the government has decided on a more expensive way because it has no money. Now, the third thing that is important about this is that if we are already talking about how the Port of Koper and the Slovenian Railways should help to finance and should, in fact, fund this project, it is necessary to add that, in fact, the Slovenian Railways are not prepared to do so and are not even capable of doing so. We know that they do not have or that their debt is already so high that they cannot borrow new loans, and on the other hand, Luka Koper also has investments and, of course, loans due to these investments worth EUR 300 million. So this is a plan or an idea that is now being put in the public eye as a liability for these companies in the construction of a second track, which in itself is not even possible and partly contrary to what the minister all the time claims. In fact, Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper, I repeat, have no money. Therefore, if you are yet to be further accredited, it will be nothing more than a loan from the Republic of Slovenia. In the same way, these loans will be reclassified, as announced by the Minister, in order to reclassify the potential loan that Dars would take for the same purpose. It should then be further emphasized here that when we talk about public-private partnership, we are talking about a very complex case, which mainly implies that it should attract this private partner. We know that he can only be attracted if this private partner has some appropriate or at least satisfactory benefits. We're talking here about the formula for plusconcession compensation. This is the basic part of this equation that will allow any private investor to be willing to go into this story. And this is where I think it's been breaking things lately. We would like to hear the answers to what this will make up for, how much the state will pay the investor to make this investment and what concessions they will have to exist. This should at least be partly clear to colleagues from social democrats. Remember the offer offered by Deutsche Bank to Pahor for privatisation at the time Intereurope, Slovenian Railways and also Luke Koper. To build and rebuild certain segments of railway infrastructure in Slovenia, the price would then be very high. Why would it be any different today? Our concern is that the logic in the background is exactly the same. If Zorman’s colleague is concerned that we should do the most in the public interest, he cannot support the public-private partnership and cannot support what Minister Gasperšič proposes, as this will be the greatest damage for taxpayers and also for other citizens and citizens. Comrade Zorman also continued to point out that with regard to the July blockade of Luke Koper, traffic was diverted, that ships were diverted to other ports, that even the ships were leaving, and that their operations with Luca Koper were terminated. Information. In July, the port in Trieste recorded a 20.36% minus in container bulk. At the time when Luka Koper was blocked those few days, this cargo did not go to Trieste. In Trieste, 20% of containers were transhipped at this time. Next. 19. 8. announced by the OOCL major shipowner that he would start doing business with Kopro, so a few weeks later for this blockade, new ships began to decide to operate with the port of Koper. In late July, Dun and Bradstreet awarded Luka Koper a rating of 5A1. Thus, it all speaks of the fact that the July blockade in Luka Koper did not harm Luke and did not, as a result, damage to the further business he was leading and of which other related companies also benefit. In mid-July, growth was also recorded in all segments in Luka Koper. As far as business and damage are concerned, and even the fact that we in some way stab ourselves in the heart is a further continuation of deception. Regarding what you mentioned regarding privatisation, colleague Zorman, the management strategy foresees – foresees and therefore has also changed the possibility of selling up to 49% of the shares in the subsidiaries of the Slovenian Railways. And the buyer already exists – Austrian obb. On the other hand, it may not be some direct or direct privatisation, but the formula proposed by the Minister, i.e. the concession to a private investor for the second track, the first track and additional pre-shipment and logistics capacities, should be Luka Koper or the Slovenian Railways and the new concessions for the next 30 years be nothing more than some kind of privatisation. This means that for the next 30 years a private investor will receive profits from business and everything else that is currently returning to a state-owned company. You also mentioned the airport. The contract for the sale of the airport was signed on 5 September 2014. Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Prime Minister of the Government Dr. Miro Cerar, the only one we protested at the time against the sale of the airport, was in the United Left. You had a chance not to sign the contract, take a step back or anything. Not now to read things about the airport, and so on, even though the one who started these things will probably defend himself or speak up. You have concluded, Comrade Zorman, by offering a solution. We repeat the solution, and we are not alone, in fact, just listening to the alternatives offered by certain economists, listening to those alternatives that Minister Gasperšič does not wish to agree to or listen to, even though he advocates a broader public debate that would lead to the most cost-effective implementation of this project. In short, 200 million has already been assured by the Government, that is a fact. In 2018, it is possible to achieve some European Union cohesion funds and the key thing is to obtain favourable long-term loans either through state-owned companies or through the state-owned state itself, for example, bonds for 30 years. It should be pointed out here that interest rates are currently historically low – 2.4% and still falling. So there are ways, there are alternatives that will not generate significant profits for private investors. I repeat, and to conclude, the public-private partnership is twice as expensive as public investment, more expensive for taxpayers and more expensive in terms of the loss of shares in companies having a state share in them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr Matjaž German, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll take a minute for a brief replica of my colleague, my friend Matthew. I understand your point or your point of view. I'll be right with you. I would also, if possible, be in charge and build a second track from public funds for 700, 800 if we wanted. But we can't be in debt. If we take someone away from us, whether it's education, health care, it's possible social transfers, we need to look for solutions, as I said in the past, we don't have the privilege of simply deciding on one and the only idealistic, ideal option, because we don't have these conditions. It is therefore necessary to seek solutions at this stage. I understand that private is not okay, public-private is not the best, but so far we have no better alternatives. We know from the budget that this is impossible, if not the other, because of the fiscal rule, because we cannot be indebted. We've decided to spend as much as we create. That is why I would try to be as realistic and realistic as possible in making assessments, especially in terms of responsibility, finding a solution, because we need to look for solutions. I understand that one wish, too, is that I would like to simply build it up for half price and from public funds, as originally in Austria, Switzerland, Germany, which can afford it. But in Slovenia we cannot afford this right now. If our geopolitical strategic investment is a second-track investment. We need to engage proactively in finding a solution and that, if possible, it will be the best, to the extent possible, that as few stakeholders as possible will be harmed by this or disadvantaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u32	Yes, there is a will or there are ways to achieve that. I have mentioned many times that Italy and Austria are building their public infrastructure from budgetary resources or from public funds. Here it is crucial that both of you are publicly and financially worse than Slovenia. Austria has a public debt of 86.2% and Italy of 132.7, with a surplus in the balance of payments of 2.6% and 2.2% of GDP and Slovenia of 7.3. In short, the Austrians and the Italians can continue to be in debt, although they do not reach such indicators as they were bound by the Stability Pact, and now we would not have tried to do so by accident or by accident. The French and Italians have made it clear that they will be able to postpone negotiations on this and to build their infrastructure peacefully with public funds. But because we have committed ourselves to the fiscal rule, we are not looking for any alternatives, so this is a complete nonsense. There are opportunities, and it is also right to take advantage of them. As regards the absence of budgetary money and the urgent need to look elsewhere, we now have a very specific example in this meeting. The following Tuesday will be adopted so called tax restructuring. This tax restructuring means, in some ways, a 56-million-dollar outflow from the budget. That's almost enough to cover a meal, let's say we're in debt and so on. In short, there is room for manoeuvre, there are ways in which the budget could be filled, including raising the tax on profits from legal persons for 3% of the points, i.e. at 22, it would bring enough to avoid such a measure, i.e. public financing of the second track, jeopardising these so highly sung and this government with expensive fiscal consolidation. I see this mainly as excuses or as some kind of intimidation for those who accompany such debates, so if we go to build this, we have to take children, social and so on, we have to build with a private partner because the country has no money. I think you can find alternatives if there is a willingness to do so and if there are no other interests in the background.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mr. Branko Zorman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. Comrade Vatovec, I really need to respond. You said that the sale of the Aerodrome took place during the time of our government. You probably didn't pay attention on the dates. On 5 September 2014, the sale or purchase by Fraport took place. 9. At that time, the government of Alenka Bratušek was still active, given that our government had only sworn 18. September. The former government is also the one that listed the Ljubljana Airport on the list of 15 companies. Not our government. So the responsibility and execution is exclusively there. But I don't think the sale was bad or the buyer was bad. Far from it. The buyer is strategic and he's good. I'm only talking about double criteria, I've talked about the double criteria that the proponents are using. And even in the lesson, Comrade Vatovec, the award of the concession is not the same privatisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I listened to these discussions of my fellow Members. Practically this has been in some way a small budgetary debate on providing resources for the construction of a second track, which we all want or would like to have, but we still have an unfinished, unclosed financial structure. And here I am interested, before I go to specific matters in this interpretation of yours, as it is, because I also hear claims that if there were a second track, it would be possible for our Slovenian railways to lose one part of their income or traffic, if I say more marketable, from the title that now the single system allows when trains also come from abroad to stop before the Theatre, then this is a transshipment and take that diesel to the port of Koper. But if we could get to two tracks, maybe even the ones on the loss might even be the ones working right on this branch. I just want to know if there really is this possibility, or if this claim is true. The fact is that the financial structure has not been completed. While you promised the public that it was the second year, in 2017 you started building. It can also be built by taking pictures with a shovel, turning a bunch of one mole, and saying a little ground, we've started. Maybe there's something else you can say. Things are still in the clouds, and I believe that if we think well, they will end well. Above all, I believe that some of your promises, commitments, adopted decisions that have not actually been implemented within the two-year mandate, or that you will re-enlighten them and tell us how it is. We all want to have modern railways, rail connections as well as abroad, so that these fast, efficient ones will enable more and more people to make public transport to cities, faster travel in Slovenia. In short, we could all have one of these here. I want to know how things are still on the Ljubljana–Kočev railway link. Just one year ago, our President Novakova also asked what else would have to be asked to move on the Ljubljana–Ribnica–Kočev railway section. You said that the tender documentation for the selection of the contractor was in preparation, that you were aware of this situation and that the funds already provided for this purpose amounted to 10 and half million to 20 million, but that the estimated investment was around 40 million. Whether the contractor is chosen or not is my particular question when we can expect it. You mentioned that this railway link will be established in 2017 and would actually like to answer this specific question. Last but not least, if I compare the journey from New City to Ljubljana for two hours, it seems to me that the entire infrastructure in Ljubljana, as far as railways are concerned, is in very poor condition and it would be a very bad time for these matters to be settled. At the beginning of this year, I myself, as a member of the Infrastructure Committee, proposed a debate on the issue of road and public road safety. We have put forward a few solutions, some of them partly financial. However, many of these conclusions have not been realized or even taken into account as if, Minister, you do not have time to deal with all these matters. I wonder how the roof centre still does not have control over road links or state roads. It seems to me that Dars and the RS Directorate for Roads, which together control about 80% of all traffic in our country, are still not involved in traffic management on state roads and motorways. Dars through a traffic information centre financed by himself, but here I am not on Dars' side, carrying out the task of informing both on the highway and on state roads, and this summer it seems to me that this summer has shown what management means from one centre. We had practical delays all over Slovenia, not to talk about this Ljubljana ring and the trip to Primorska. It was an extremely big deal. I'm talking about the National Traffic Management Centre, and I can see that some of my colleagues don't know what I'm talking about, but I'm sure the Minister understands. Of course, there are still not enough signal tables, there are still exceptional columns that can be easily eliminated or at least diverted by rational distribution. There's still a shortage, whether it's from a coastal highway or a Styria highway or a mountain road. Unfortunately, too little has been done in this area. It's obvious, it shows that things are not going in the right direction. I would like to touch further for 40 years the ongoing process and wishes of Korošci to reach some normal infrastructure, however, to roads that would be comparable to the rest of Slovenia, of course. It is still unclear what is the course of the third development axis of Braslovča. We had, I think, a year ago, a joint meeting of the Committees on Agriculture and Infrastructure and for the environment and space where we discussed the placement of the route. She was on a new route, and there was nothing more. We have received again these days a renewed call for the construction of the third development axis as soon as possible, and we still do not know which route we will take to Koroška. I still have here alone, and also our Group of Members, wondering whether the route that was set a year ago was the best, because it is actually going to the best agricultural land we have in Slovenia. I think that this journey we have from Dravograd to Velenje for more than an hour and from Velenje to Trojan for a good 40 minutes is practically unacceptable in these times. When we were there with the Group of Members, they said they were moved away to feel this way about their jobs in the development of the region of Koroška. Simply at this time, I find it simply irresponsible of all of us not to say, however, it is, even the roads are in a catastrophic state. Earlier, my fellow Member, Vrtovac, mentioned that we would need 298 million more for the following years if we wanted our roads to be normally transportable or at least to meet some European criteria, since in Slovenia at present only 20% of our country's roads are, according to European criteria, assessed as good or safe. 20% of roads in Slovenia are estimated to be safe. It seems to me that there is a need to provide some financial means for road infrastructure, because, last but not least, it seems to me that we have bad railway connections, road connections, that I will not go to any other area that you are covering, but also energy. We are simply digging for all this Europe somewhere, and on the other hand, I am listening to how much we have gained from some European funds. Yes, where did these European funds go? And then I hear that today's debate is needed to provide public money. But that's what I think about public money. As some imagine public money, how it should be distributed, they are witnessing the events themselves in Luka Koper. It was the most clear how some imagined what public money should be spent on. I can say here that I am sorry, Minister, but the events in Luka Koper also show what your situation is, what your figure is, your authority as Minister of Infrastructure. Not the last toothless tiger. There they fought certain ones — and you were not likely to have the power to say that you would make order there to fulfill your word. So, toothless ministers, I don't know if I know exactly how much we need them. We need ministers to face such or other pressures. Unfortunately, it turned out differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, get Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's meeting, or this point, which is titled Interpellation by Minister Gasperšič, I think that more than talking about the Minister, the government has finally replaced nine ministers, but another ten. More importantly, we are talking about concrete infrastructure projects, transport security and ultimately government property management. Minister, in your response, you did not actually respond to any of the observations that were recorded in the interpretation, but I will briefly summarize the indications that I think it would be better for the country if someone else sat in your chair or seat. I'll start with the second track. This is a project that has been following you since the hearing of the competent committee for the Minister, where you said that we do not need a second track project there for at least 40 years. To my question about the second track being, so to speak, a condition for Luke Koper to develop, you answered me that yes, but that the cargo, the larger one, should be driven along highways, that we have motorways and that a nice cargo should be diverted there. Then it continues with a study of the need for a second track paid with our or our tax money. And look at the fraction, this study finds that the second track of Slovenia does not need. And the fourth point about the second track I want to say is the application of this second track to a call for European funds, where you have sent a completely incomplete financially non-closed project. The seizure of this call or application is, of course, no euro for the second track. That's, I'll say, a short chronology of what's going on under your ministry with the second track. And in all this two-year-old event now turns the board upside down – the second track will be, the second track is the most important, and points to i, "the second track will start the second year, if not, I will resign as Minister". Look at the fraction, in 2018 you will go either way as Minister. So it wasn't a particularly big promise. I'm moving on with Darsa and Luca Koper. Two supervisors, the President of the Supervisory Boards, have made a public statement that you have called and requested an exchange of board presidents. This exchange took place in Darsa. I don't know if that's why, but I suppose so. A successful call for electronic tolling was made by a prominent member of the SMC or SMC candidate for the mayor of Ljubljana, Mr Avbrecht, despite the fact that they say that the call for tender was supplemented by the fact that the map was not fat enough, okay, the call was completed once again when your man became a legal adviser to this invitation, and the story went as you wished. In Luka Koper, this story did not come out that way, although my assessment of the appetites was very similar, if not the same. The third point I would like to mention is road safety. This year, from 1 January to 18 September, 100 people lost their lives on our roads, unfortunately in the same period in 2014. Everyone is too much, Minister, but that means 30% more than in 2014, when we led the government, when some people like it. 30%! It is also said in the professional circles that at least part of this should be the fault of a police strike. And I want to know who within the government is going to take the 100 fatalities on their backs because they didn't make a quick or timely deal with the police to stop the strike. Is this your responsibility? Is this the responsibility of the Minister? Or is it the responsibility of the Prime Minister? But with a hand swinging at 24 more fatalities, it's irresponsible. And I think someone should be responsible for that. Let me get back to track two. In fact, I have been convincing you for two years that a billion 400 million euros is too much money for a 27-mile line. Now after two years you have finally found that it is right to order a review, a review, whatever you want to say, and you will come up with a new assessment. Nevertheless, you say that we will build this project with a public-private partnership, despite the fact that all of you economists, not only in Slovenia, think that they are convincing all over the world and tell you that for a billion 400 worth of investment for the 27 kilometers of the private partner's route you will simply not get. Every private investor goes into a project with some benefit, so to speak, at least something small should be earned. Now you are, Minister, to calculate, by putting in the project a billion euros, what a return per year it should be to not know how many years it pays. In a hundred years, this project wouldn't pay off. That is why it is absolutely attracted to the hair or the private partner will not, for such a project, at such a height, hope or believe that we all understand that. And one more thing, you're saying Luke Koper won't privatize. If the shares of Luke Koper, which is your purpose, invest in 2TKK or I do not know exactly what it is called, it is the same, and then set these shares below for lending, which is your goal, it is very similar to the stories we have already seen in Slovenia – Istrabenz, Pivovarna Laško, Mercury and more. If you intend to do so with state property – I hope that anywhere in Slovenia you will not be given loans for the flag of the shares of Luka Koper – it is very close – we do not say privatisation, we can say another step more, it is the tycunization of Luke Koper. This is the story you write in the case of Luke Koper in these two years. In this way, the minister promised the coalition: "The second track will be, and it will begin the second year. The Markovec tunnel is already, driving through this tunnel will be free of charge, no vignettes. And there'll be more money for state roads." You know, Minister, you can only be trusted by someone who believes the whistle turns chocolate. Too bad you've lost two years, actually, two years have passed, and these two years no one, not us, can pay us back. All too many times, many of you turn back. I may have made this mistake myself in the past, but the past will not change the future. We've been two years, we haven't, you've already missed. I wish that at least half of what you promised us, not the coalition, that you realize at least half of this into the good of the country and I hold my hand that you really succeed this half. Of course, I expect and answer, not us, you answer to citizens and citizens. You have to be aware of that, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh. Here you go, Mr. Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u40	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with the Team, Honourable Fellow Member and Members! Sometimes I have a feeling that we may be having a very big discussion recently about Primorski: Luka Koper, second track. That way, at times, one would think we were sitting in the Maritime Parliament. I think that this intervention against Minister Gasperšič has in itself contributed to this and has in some ways also influenced that today we can talk about some South Central development of Slovenia, particularly in the interest of some to shift attention only to some projects in the field of infrastructure. This could also have been the aim of this interpolation when we are speaking from the point of view of the financial structure in order to finance this project from public funds. There are also some other projects here that are very important in Slovenia, to mention this third axis, that there is also health care and other budgetary consumers, who, if they had landed in such a way as the proposalr also establishes in some way, would have been deprived in some way, and, as I have pointed out many times before, could not have developed Slovenia polycentrically, as we all want. So I could say that this interpolation is also unprofessionally prepared from this point of view and does not fully reflect the actual situation. The question of what is the objective of the applicants in general is also raised. As many times in the past interpellations, this also uses this only as a legitimate tool for the opposition to gain political points and to distort the actual state of play in the implementation of infrastructure projects. The government of President Mir Cerar has defined the construction of the second track and the construction of the third development axis as well as other infrastructure projects as strategic projects for the state of Slovenia and for its economic development. That's more or less clear. It has also been pointed out on several occasions that the Government is aware of the importance of the multiplier effects of infrastructure projects and the importance of these for economic growth. In line with the Government's strong support for the start of construction of the second track, the minister also acted with his team. The perceptions that the minister acted irresponsibly and blocked the construction of the second track are ridiculous and misleading. As Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, I am actively monitoring the work of the Minister and the Government in the field of the implementation of the second track project and other infrastructure projects. So I can say with certainty that as much effort as our government and the Minister have put into these projects has not yet been made. But it wasn't just the effort, it's the results. We can also talk in concrete terms about the practical launch of this project. All the government's decisions to build a second track have been made as a hot bone by each other, and so also by the minister to the minister. With the project approach and the team work of Minister Gasperšić, and also with the interdisciplinary approach of the Government, it finally became clear that the second track project would begin and this has also happened. However, the fact that the Minister also has a plan for how this can be achieved clearly shows that this project will also be implemented by Prime Minister Mir Cerar and Minister Gasperšič. For these reasons, I support the Minister. I support it because it is aware of the importance of maintaining the country's macroeconomic stability, protecting the interests of all citizens and implementing the project in an economically sustainable manner. I also support it because, despite the various ideas on how to finance this project, it insists on public-private partnership and does not promise projects in broken financial structures. These are offered by some academics, teachers from comfortable chairs behind the cathedral counter, and when they were secretaries themselves, they could not solve this problem or find any other solutions. These advisers, as always, are not prepared to take any responsibility. Of course, they are willing to write studies and charge very expensively. By producing these misleading studies, they are also disturbing citizens, and in some ways they are also wasting time with lengthy meetings devoted to interpolation rather than dealing with the economy and creating added value in order to finally fill the budget and have more money for such and similar projects. The Minister's real stance reflects his intention to finance such important projects in a transparent and economically sustainable manner. Probably a lot of dust between the different lobbies and, as a result, in the public eye, this decision was taken by the Minister to seriously prepare the construction plan and to prepare a financial structure which is economically sustainable and which, in essence, places all other regions in an equal position for investment opportunities in the field of infrastructure. Therefore, as a red thread, this interpellation involves mainly the introduction of misleading and distorted facts. The proposal to the Minister is particularly unwarranted to prevent the construction of the second track, despite the fact that we have adopted the construction of the transport strategy of Slovenia, which, of course, enables and is a prerequisite for drawing European funds, that we have carried out this year the modernisation of the route between Divaca and Kopro, that it is just before the completion of the railway electrification project and that on 8 July this year practically started work on the project of the so-called extraction track, which can actually represent even some kind of start of the second track. Based on these facts, I reiterate that the construction of the second track has actually begun. For all those who destroy the Minister's achievements and say that everything has been done too little, I should answer with a question: who and what minister has so far been able to achieve as much as Minister Peter Gasperšić and the Government of Mir Cerar and how many ministers of government have been courageous enough to decide to start building this strategically demanding project? We are aware of the development and economic importance of the second track, in any way we support the Government's efforts to implement this strategic project publicly and effectively. It is important that we also, as politicians and citizens, realize that the needs of the population extend beyond the second indent alone and that investing this project exclusively from the state budget would have a negative impact on the situation and financing of other railway infrastructures, roads across Slovenia and also on the third development axis. We all know the situation in the area of Slovenian roads and railways this government has inherited, and in two years it has managed to reverse the negative trend of financing into transport infrastructure. In 2015 alone, this government earmarked €62 million for regular maintenance of roads, and this year it allocated €104 million. For railways only, a total of 362 million were earmarked for investment activities in 2015 and modernisation projects, upgrading of the Divača-Koper line, Slovenska Bistrica-Pragersko, Dolga Gora-Poljčane line were completed. These upgrades allow smooth operation and further development of logistics activities and reduce driving times. I would also mention the distortion of the fact of modernisation of Prague-Hodoš, which has been quite mentioned today. We can also say here that this project has been successfully implemented. Although it was not possible to use this on the whole route for certain technical reasons at first, I must remind myself of one fact which I must also touch further. Also in this project was the problem of placing a long-distance route. Here I have to say that we are Slovenians by our own artist or, you might say, by the way, we're slabs. In a way, at the second track itself, see how much time was lost to place this route, double track, one track, left, right, middle and so on. This is the characteristic of the Slovenians, and also in some way of planning, a certain narrower space when we simply do not know how to agree. And then we can't tell one minister who is responsible for implementing the project if there are no two villages that can't talk about where there's going to be a remote, where there's going to be a road or a third axis. Even if the interpretation mentions a lot of nonsense and instigation, I have devoted enough time to addressing this point to get to know in detail the works and achievements of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Among other things, I consider the third development axis, which would enable Koroška to better road links and the region's higher economic potential to connect Koroška with central Slovenia. The construction of the northern part of the third development axis was the central theme of the government visit to Koroška with an agreement and commitment to ensure the necessary road connection between Koroška and central Slovenia and also south of the White Region. In 2016, the Government and the Ministry pledged to place the northern part of the third axis in a space where project documentation and land purchase as well as construction works at Velenje–Slovenia Gradec will begin in 2017. I therefore reiterate that the wrong financial structures would prevent the implementation of the third development axis project, so I see in every way that the public-private partnership for the construction of the second track of law and the only meaningful solution. Let me finish. In the debate, I outlined the most important achievements of Minister Gasperšić and also responded with some arguments to unwarranted interpretation. As I have already mentioned in the debate, Slovenians will also have to ask themselves once how much time we are wasting with a certain bulwark, when we were moving the routes and inventing such and different reasons to oppose putting another track into space. A similar story is now happening to us in placing a third development axis, when some do not fit such a different variant. After all, in a few years, we will try again to try some interpretation for some minister. We Slovenians need to become more patient with the placement of important infrastructure projects and facilities and realize that without road, rail infrastructure we cannot promise economic development and growth. I think today those who have spent a lot of time putting this second track into place, including the first to criticise the minister in some way, that the project has not been implemented in a timely manner. Let me clear my mind. I wish the Minister a successful job, I support it and also insist on the balanced polycentric development of Slovenia, all infrastructure projects. After all, we are different regions in Slovenia, one still quite underdeveloped and more important transport infrastructure connections are needed than others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you, too. She's trying to get dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Look, president, let's stop wasting time with the waste of time debate. Colleagues know we have limited time. The United Left has only six Members and Members, SMC has announced full time. If they are so against this waste of time, advise them, chairman, not to waste it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Ducky. I believe you understand exactly the situation Mr Ranc was in when he wanted to express his opinion. And that's right, because that's why we're here. Let's move on. The next debate is Mrs Anita Koleša, to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me, Mr Trček, to waste some time on you, I hope not to do so to others, I have this right to speak in this national assembly, but above all I want to participate in this debate also because, Mr Minister, I think I have worked with you several times as an MEP and also as a citizen, and that I have somehow become familiar with your work, and that I can also speak with some arguments. I'm talking about you being a good minister, responding to our initiatives, taking responsibility for individual tasks, including those that you are told are not. You know, sometimes we don't agree, and maybe I read it to you, or I was more than sad that you gave in to a project that we called it a road cent. However, I fully and confidently accepted the correctness of the decision, which indicated that the arguments were in favour of not being a good idea, so I believe that you are really going to do everything with full responsibility. I also believe that interpellation is without any relevant evidence that could help you to act against the interests of the state and the citizens. I would say, as I may have done before, that at such and similar meetings, interpellation usually does not go against bad ministers. The Minister's first and principal sin is the so-called second track and one of the eternally obvious reasons for interpolation is that the Minister has already expressed caution at the hearing on the construction of the second track of the Koper-Divač track. From that hearing on, his opposition to building a fact is, and once the second track is built, it is likely that only this statement will be cited by the ministers' opponents. However, at the time of entry into the ministerial categories, his caution was entirely on the spot. As is now the case with his commitment to continue the project and to build it. Caution, but certainly not opposition. And even though he would have really opposed the construction as a candidate for a minister, that doesn't mean that we can tell him that. Ms Theresa May was very much in favour of the UK's presence in the European Union in the Brexit campaign. To the end and with all arguments, it was against brexit. After the decision to leave, Mrs May became Prime Minister, and no one in Great Britain thought of continuing to take her stand before the referendum. She made a decision and committed herself to the task. And since it is now absolutely clear that the second track of the government project is a high priority, these endless debates on the Minister's opposition and some statements reflect a greater lack of arguments to discredit it. The Minister has even tied the beginning of the construction to his participation in this government, and that is certainly a courageous statement, however you interpret it. Still, perhaps there is something else about the company that is interpreting the minister now. Let us look at some facts in the light of what someone thinks and what he does. For example, if Member Chuš thought so seriously about the statement he made at the European Union committee meeting, that Mrs Alenka Bratušek, I quote, "requently indebted the young and future generations and shouted at the Headquarters that Europe is a gang of thieves," so if Mr Chuš thought so seriously with this statement, I strongly doubt that he would now be performing with the former Prime Minister against the Minister. He just changed his mind, and that's actually fine. They probably changed their minds in the United Left, and they don't care if they're working with a member of Parliament now who's been exposed to mis-day fascism and camaraderie with extreme right-wing groups. I would like to point out above all that the important message of this interpretation is, unfortunately, a worrying fact that we are prepared to cooperate with everyone and at all costs for the demolition. How ready are we to take part in the construction work? Of course, it is quite evident that at least three past governments have broken their teeth on this project. It is interesting, however, that today one of the more zealous interpolation supporters, Mrs former Prime Minister, has been very cautious in the promises to implement this infrastructure facility. She said that, as long as she was the Prime Minister, a project worth 1.4 billion euros would not be built. And I must say that I also, as a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, supported its caution. But she also said that — this is written in black and white — she had ordered a revision of the project, that the government had sought out experts who had done something similar around the world. That's why I asked the Ministry to get this audit, and they told me, quote, "value check, revision of the Second track project has never been ordered". So Mrs. Bratushek lied. So much for the integrity of some Members who speak very much about the integrity of others. The audit, as we know, was ordered only by Minister Gasperšič. Maybe there's something on this site about an interpolation reading about illegal influence on Dars and Luke Koper's supervisors. It is true, much has been said about this already, that the obvious is actually at the level of slandering what he or she has said, and to such rumors, what someone has said, to attribute illegality, is, to say the least, unworthy of any political debate, but only the debates on the basis of which the work of a minister should be decided. Mr Former Supervisor Darsa and Mrs First Supervisor Luke Koper have their integrity and thus have their integrity as well as Mr Minister. However, I am very concerned about something else – that the majority-owned economy of the state, led by the director and apparently also at the head of the trade unions, is opposed to the Government's efforts to reach an appropriate funding model for this very important infrastructure facility. In this House, dear colleagues and colleagues, you have established a fiscal framework through the Constitution, a fiscal framework for public spending, which now applies to all of us, even to Members of the United Left, even though I hear that we could avoid it. In this House, we have agreed not to undermine the country's macroeconomic stability. And in this House, I have heard many times the concern that we could lose sight of the matter, with the exercise, just like that well-known energy fiasco. Colleagues from the United Left say we have no experience in the public-private partnership, but you add that this is the most expensive solution. Of course, I ask my government to carry out the project in a prudent, transparent, unbased manner, without undue pressure on the minister and the government, either on the part of expert experts or political opportunists. Let me finish my discussion slowly. In the past days, I was in places where the Prague-Hodoš route takes place. Excellent work done, no unsecured transitions, updated level crossings, and in between cycling routes, where we met very happy and satisfied people. In order for the Prague-Hodos project to succeed, it was necessary to negotiate with 16 municipalities. Congratulations Prleki, congratulations Prekmurci, you have participated in the good of people and in the good of Slovenia. Dear Minister! I expect you to continue as you promised us in the introduction to this session. Of course, I don't support interpretation. I expect that in the coming days we will re-sit at the table, we will agree to continue our efforts to build or rebuild too many infrastructure facilities in my places, and I am pleased that some road sections have already been restored and some roads have already been turned over by machines, so that the infrastructure facilities in Slovenia have finally started to take place. Well, at the end of the day, only my colleague Dobovšek, who sends us to Switzerland several times, would say that he should have his own Switzerland. A country that is in the heart of Europe, which has only granted women electoral rights in 1968, and a country that allows women only four months of maternity leave. Just because they have the longest railway tunnel in the world doesn't mean they're our model and our first track in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u45	The text is requested by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u46	Yes, thank you. Of course, the Apologetic Mill SMC is spinning well. We don't tear anything down in the United Left. As I have pointed out many times, we are also trying, or preventing, arguments that you do not want to hear from harming citizens. Now you're talking about fiscal consolidation. The second indent, after several proposals presented, does not jeopardise fiscal consolidation and is not contrary to the fiscal rule. The fiscal rule, for those you know or know a little less, refers to the deficit, not the extent of the public debt. According to the calculations proposed by the economists and under the funding plan, as proposed as an alternative to the public-private partnership, the new expenditure on debt repayment is covered by some dedicated resource, such as a petrol cent, and consequently the effect is neutral. Therefore, it does not affect the scope of the public debt. Given that public-private partnership funding is twice as expensive, and we are talking about the difference between €71.5 million and €36.2 million, budgetary expenditure in the case of a public-private partnership would also be significantly higher. And in fact, what you are advocating in the spirit or under the winged consolidation of public finances is, in fact, an even greater threat to public finances because you are going to a project that will be twice as expensive and will therefore be twice as expensive for the budget. But we're going in order. It is claimed that the compensation for availability on the one hand is not a subsidy, i.e. what would be given to the investor and that the granting of concessions is not a privatisation. The government insists that. But it's all about cheating again. The refund for availability is a subsidy. This is a payment subsidy for consumer services. This is the same as if the municipality or the state should pay a commercial company compensation for the availability of trade. If it's open every day, they get a 100% refund. If it may be a little more plastic to say what it really means. And this trader then also charges his products clearly to the final consumers, and I think that this case is completely absurd. This is precisely the case with the public-private partnership proposed in the case of the construction of the second track. Dars, who operates motorways owned by the State, also receives no compensation, for example, for the availability of these motorways. It is paid mainly for maintenance works by users and subsidies. So we don't know cases like this. Also Slovenian railways, passenger transport does not receive any flat-rate subsidies, but only receive a subsidy for a sold passenger ticket. So the mechanisms are now very clear here, but in this case, the special case of the second track as an obvious exceptional situation, and consequently 2TKK gets flattened only because the track is open to traffic. So one company that manages this route will get a flat rate, a subsidy, we can call it what we want, whether it's a train or not. In short, it's a guaranteed profit. However, Luka Koper receives no compensation at all or anything. On the contrary, Luka Koper pays the State and the municipalities concessions 3.5% of the business revenues. So in all other cases, we see that such a mechanism as this subsidy or compensation, as it is called, is completely meaningless and does not exist. As far as concessions and privatisation are concerned. The concession is privatisation, a kind of privatisation is the privatisation of the management of public infrastructure, i.e. the state monopoly and, consequently, the rents resulting from this monopoly. The government here is somehow trying to combine two types of concessions. One investment is expected to be carried out by a consortium in which neighbouring countries will also have a share, while at the same time there will be various financial investors or terminalists who are lobbying at the Ministry of Infrastructure, those who will have to provide them with some return on investment and will be provided by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So it's not about some processes or mechanisms where you can overwhelm these costs to users. After the rebellion in Luka Koper, the government stopped talking about concrete concessions for some of the reasons of the initial vote, at the beginning of the third pier in Luka Koper, but it is still being spoken of or publicly presented, or perhaps until the last week, until the last commitments of the Group of Social Democrats, some concessions for additional logistics and transshipment capacities, which we do not know what they are, and even during this time we have not received a clear answer for which pre-shipment and logistics capacities are concerned. However, I think that in any case these concessions will have to be granted, because without these related transactions, no investor will land or the state will probably not want to pay 100 % of this subsidy to this private investor, i.e. all of these 70 million euros in compensation for availability. To the question which concessions he intends to grant, the President of the Government did not then answer my question. Nor does Minister Gasperšič, in particular in his reply to his colleague Chuš on 1 September, answer this question, then wrote: "With the law currently in the previous inter-departmental coordination, 2TKK is expected to be awarded a concession for the construction and management of the new railway connection to the second line of Divača–Koper of the existing routes and additional pre-depository storage capacity and other logistics-related activities." Despite various allegations, despite changing attitudes or different promises, the formula remains largely the same. The concession for the second track, the concession for the existing track, the subsidy for availability and concession for port activity, or what is hidden under this abstract term of "other pre-shipment storage capacity". The only news now is that they do not want to say honestly that it is Luka Koper, but they have openly admitted that they will also privatise the management of the existing track that already exists. And if we draw the line below what the state has out of this, it will practically have the entire infrastructure, the entire line that exists between the only port and the world, put in charge of a private investor, and it will have nothing to do with it, because it will not pay any concessions or anything like that, but it will have the cost of having to pay the subsidy to that private investor. The question raised here is also the question of the port administration, which has been in the air for a long time and is also found in the various statements made by the minister. Let's say the lukewarm administration and the privatisation of logistics is in Del 24. 6. 2016 Minister said: "My view is that logistics is better left to private companies. The State is not an undertaking to deal with the transhipment of containers and bulky cargo, but is vitally interested in controlling the port or infrastructure through the port administration." And, of course, then, further in the Ministry's explanation of the port development programme, which was adopted by 30. 6. 2016, where it is stated that this issue, i.e. the reimbursement of the non-amortised investments of Luka Koper following the expiry of the current concession, can only be resolved by amending the concession contract, which means that new construction concessions would be granted for new investments with the existing service concession, but in view of the uniform management of the port, it is necessary to provide a special port manager, in a round-up, so-called port of eligibility. In short, all the statements, all that currently comes from both the President of the Government and Minister Gasperšič, clearly indicates that one of the plans is to build this track in the form of a public-private partnership, which means nothing more than damage to citizens and citizens because of the subsidies that the State will pay to the investor and, on the other hand, because of the privatisation of governance with the state infrastructure. As a result, it also means blocking the start of the construction of the second track and also by building all other activities, of the 2DKK, which represents a 6 million basket for private interests, those who will carry out the studies and have been employed on this company, although there is no need for us to have a special company currently in 100 % state ownership, dealing with only one project, and this company will later acquire a concession and be mostly privately owned, and, on the other hand, there is always some inappropriate climate for the operation of the current concessionaire, namely Luke Koper, in particular by blocking the development of this port. The goal, we know what it is, and it is clear that if, at the moment, Luka Koper is somehow blocking or blocking its development, then it will be easier to argue the entry of new associates into this company and so on. In response, the Minister also cites what the Government has done at this time to promote the development of the port of Koper. Here are a lot of things, such as deepening the waterway to the first port pool, then a five-year port development programme by 2020 and an investment of EUR 300 million. This is all about deceiving. As with the acquisition of the second track construction permit, deepening the waterway into the pool is something that is not the solution of this government, but has been under way for many years and is the completion of the Cohesion Fund draw-up project 2007-2013. The port development programme, I have already emphasised, was fully written by Luka Koper by 2020 and it is also a regular activity in accordance with the concession contract. EUR 300 million in investments in port activities and infrastructure will be paid by Luka Koper and not by the Ministry. The development programme does not specify equipment, but only construction objects. These are all the points that are very important as far as this is concerned. In addition, the main obstacle to accelerating the development of port infrastructure is consistent with the State Spatial Plan, which brings about a significant increase in the operation of the entire port, and is the lack of consensus on the part of the Ministry. The port of Koper has the purposes and plans to further develop port capacities, but this is prevented on the one hand by the state authorities, the Ministry of Infrastructure, and also by local authorities headed by the Municipality of Koper. For a long time, Luka Koper has been asking for an extension of the concession area according to the VAT, because in fact, it has already filled its existing capacity. In fact, the Ministry of Infrastructure is late to issue the consents financed by Luka Koper for a long time. The port development programme 2016-2020 was adopted by the Government in June 2016 and 11 investments are pending agreement, even though all the conditions for their issue are met. Some have been waiting almost a year, here I have a list of these investments, and the question is now where is this dialogue, which the Minister regularly conducts with Luka Koper to enable the development of this company. It follows from this that there is some clear blocking of port development on the part of the Minister, while at the same time explaining in the public how new concessionaires are needed, new investors that will enable the development of existing or still available capacities. This is another nonsense or a cross between statements where, on the one hand, the current concessionaire is not allowed to develop and expand the activity and, on the other hand, it is a matter of having to do so, but of needing a new concessionaire or new concessionaires and so on. As the last thing related to this issue of stopping port development and also intention or at least some tendency that indicates that the minister wants to privatise port activity in one way or another are lobbyist contacts. In the United Left, we requested access in accordance with the provisions of the Public Information Access Act concerning the records of lobbying at the Ministry of Infrastructure. During the first three months of this year, 140 lobbyist contacts were reported by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of 364 of all those on the State Administration. Of course, we requested lobbyists' records in contact with lobbyists. The following contacts are particularly interesting. 11 February 2016, DP World Inter in Tergum. Description of contact: The discussion was held on the possibilities for entry into port and logistics activities in the Republic of Slovenia and on the envisaged activities and possibilities of cooperation regarding the project of construction of a new railway connection between Divaca and Kopro. 24 February 2016, Goldman Sachs. The discussion took place on the planned activities and opportunities for participation in the project to build a new railway connection between Divaca and Kopro in the project of planned and other possible investments in port development in Cyprus and in the energy rehabilitation project of buildings. 8. 3. 2016, Acciona infrastructure and Deutsche Bank. The discussion took place on the planned activities and opportunities for participation in the project to build a new railway connection between Divaca and Kopro in connection with the planned development of the port. 22. 3. 2016, APM Terminals. The discussion took place on the subject of the project on the second track of the Divača-Koper line, which is closely linked to the development of the port of Koper. The company is interested in active cooperation in the infrastructure development of Luka Koper. Ensure that no new concessions are sought, that no additional entities enter either the shares of Luka Koper or any of the other companies are in some way on a very fragmented basis. Here is an open key question, if you land so much or advocate a model of public-private partnership, you'd probably all like to hear what this model is like. I'm not talking about exactly how it's meant to be, but at least in the grave. Some assurances have obviously come, colleagues from the coalition are firmly convinced that it works and that it will also in some way withstand the public finances test and that this would be the cheapest way to carry out such a project. This question remains open to us. But there is an open question for the rest of the public. What you were talking about behind the closed doors of the parliamentary groups, we don't know, more initiatives and questions came from employees in Luka Koper, by Members, by other stakeholders, but there was no answer and public commitments. Finally, yesterday, the Front of the Upstairs sent another call to Prime Minister Cerar to answer some questions to this day. To answer the question, for the first time, whose concessions, in addition to the second indent, the Government intends to leave to the private partner; for the second time to ensure that the private partner will not receive any concession in the port of Koper and that Luka Koper will remain a single company with all the concessions it has under the present concession contract; for the third time to prove that the costs of the public-private partnership for the country, including related transactions, will be less than the costs of the classic model, i.e. through public funding, and for the fourth time to be defined up to the other requirements that the Koper Workers' Council personally addressed to it on 7 July 2016 and reiterated in its letter of 1 September 2016. In some ways, I have asked these questions myself several times today. There's still no answer. Above all, I would like to have the answers here in this place, that we can hear, in fact, all of us, not just in some private talks between the various Members and the Minister, whether it is possible to ensure that the Minister here with clear arguments, evidence and calculations can say that there will be no concessions, that there will be no fragmentation of the concession contract in Luka Koper, what the financial plan of the public-private partnership is, what it means, to all the other demands that have been made long ago. If we get these answers today, we will probably be a step closer to understanding a little bit more the logic of the public-private partnership represented by the Minister. Until then, there are all these doubts that we are stressing here today, which we have mentioned in the text of the interpolation, open because they clearly indicate that we will only lose and we will gain nothing if construction takes place.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Dr. Vatovec. The Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Peter Gasperšič, asked for the floor and Mr Janko Weber asked for it. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In view of the debate so far, I have felt the need for me to get a little more involved in this debate and light up certain things that have been said. Above all, I am pleased that the word does not only run about impressions in interpretation, but we are also talking more about other things, about other infrastructure issues, because I am very well aware that I am not only the minister for the second track, but I am the minister of infrastructure. In fact, I am very pleased with the questions which therefore concern other issues in this area, which I am covering. However, I will start with a debate on the second track, and in particular on this key issue, how to finance it. I wouldn't want to go back to whether the second track is needed or not, and I would never again warm up this statement of mine at the hearing when I wasn't even Minister. I've told you many times why I changed my mind. When I saw the state of the existing track, when I saw what the development potentials of Luke Koper were, when I saw what all this meant for the development of Slovenia, Slovenian logistics, it was more than obvious that the second track was necessary and needed to be ensured as soon as possible. How do you get to him, how do you fund him? I think it is more or less clear to everyone that we cannot secure this investment from the budget. Although I am not a cashier, I am not worried about the state treasury, but it is so much for me, and I think you all understand what this would mean if we wanted to finance this investment from the budget or if we could even afford it, with what macrofiscal constraints we are facing. The fact is that with the annual budget, even now there is a series of budgetary debates, we need to be concerned that the budget deficit is being reduced. So this year's deficit. That's one limit. We committed ourselves to this golden rule, which was not the last to be enshrined in the Constitution, and then a special law was passed. The second issue we are committed to is set out in the Stability Pact, where this public debt, which the country has, has to be gradually reduced to 60%, one in twenty each year. In short, these are the commitments that the country as a whole is facing. In this context, if we are trying to find a solution to how the second track could be financed under the budget, we ask ourselves first whether each year we can provide the appropriate share that would be needed to finance this investment. We know that every year we are fighting to cover the provision within the budget of sufficient financial resources for all the needs that the budget dictates. And I'm not just talking here about infrastructure needs, there are needs in education, in health care, in defence, in agriculture, in the environment and so on, as has been said today. However, if we look only at infrastructure needs, I have here a diagram where the funds that have been invested in road infrastructure in recent years, 2007-2014, are being drawn. Here's the plan 2016, 2017, 2018. It is clear from this diagram that in the years leading up to the 2008/2009 crisis, the amount of funds we provide for road infrastructure has reached investment of some 140 million euros, which means that virtually all the earmarked funds collected from the annual levy and from the Koper concessions, which is between 150 million and 160 million annually, have been allocated to road infrastructure. Then there were the years when European funds were included, this is the yellow part. It is obvious, however, that during the crisis these integral resources of the budget have fallen significantly. While the funds collected for the purpose of road infrastructure were obviously not devoted to road infrastructure during all these years, they were intended for some other needs. We know where these needs were during the crisis. In these years, as we can see, 2014, 2015 was therefore part of an integrated budget dedicated to road infrastructure, a slight, say, some EUR 20 million, which is far from what we know is necessary for some minimum conservation – that is about EUR 100 million per year. It has also been heard today, and this is the correct conclusion that it would take roads and railways together every year to remain in good shape and to ensure certain developments, about €250 million per year. Let's see what a breakthrough we've got here. Well, then comes the time when it came and this government and I, as Minister, where with the budgets for 2016 and with the proposals for 2017 and 2018, have provided more funds for road infrastructure. However, despite the fact that we are ensuring this increase, we all know that this is still too small to cover all the small funds that have been realised in all these past years. We know that the need to invest in road infrastructure is even higher, but under the existing budget options we can provide this for the time being. In short, the question arises where we can provide a few more resources to, say, invest the second track. We can if we take some of this cake, and we know it's fatal for all the other projects. Even if we say we can take something, then we can come up with that key problem, or we can hire a loan for that investment. And we find that, of course, we cannot rent this loan because it would increase public debt. So we need to look for a way to rent this loan so that this public debt does not increase. And here this solution is offered within the framework of a public-private partnership. We have therefore decided to implement this public-private partnership through a specific project, which has also been established, this is a 2TKK project company with two tasks. In the first part, the preparation of all necessary both for calls for European funds and any other documentation still needed for this purpose, and in the second part, it will act as an investor and will provide within this company the financial structure necessary for the construction of the second track. Of course, I repeat, in a way that all this financial structure will not burden the country's books, so that public debt will not increase. The following is envisaged within this financial structure. One part is already agreed, it is already decided to provide a state with a capital injection of up to EUR 200 million. As I have already mentioned today, EUR 100 million was approved by the SDH Supervisory Board yesterday in the framework of the annual management plan, and this share will also be realised this year and will therefore be an investment to realise this investment. In the following year, an additional 100 million will follow. Thus, 200 million will be provided by Slovenia's capital deposits. We continue to work intensively and cooperate with the European Commission, with the European Investment Bank, to meet all the conditions for the successful use of European funds. This is very crucial. In theory, it is possible to get 30% of the value of the investment and therefore we want to get as close as possible to that objective. The calls can then be made less, as we never really know how much resources will be available on the individual call for proposals and how many projects will be applied. But anyway, we're going to prepare our project so that this pump can be as secure as possible. In addition, when completing this financial structure, private investors' contributions are key. And here's the key step. We want these private investors to be the ones who benefit most from this project. Today's talk was that every investor, every private person wants to get something back from this cartridge. Who and where he will recover this and who he is, these may be our companies that benefit the most from this project. These two companies will also realize some benefit from this project and it is therefore perfectly logical and we want them to participate in this project in an appropriate manner. Of course, then it is necessary to agree on what this will be like for these companies to contribute to this financial structure. I am talking, of course, about Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper. What will then be lacking until the final value of the project is now also an expert internationally verified assessment, and this difference will be ensured through the so-called Juncker Fund or EFSI mechanism, which the European Commission has also set up in order to promote such investments mainly in countries across Europe, which face restrictions on the financing of such complex investments, in short, which face restrictions on the financing of such investments from the budget. In this way, it is therefore envisaged to complete this financial structure. As we say, here we want the cooperation of both key recipients to benefit from this project. If we can ensure this, and I am sure that we can, there is no need to talk here about any award of any concessions, any privatisations and so on. That's what I'd like to mention. The public-private partnership, which normally operates through awarded concessions, does not in any way constitute privatisation. There's no equation here. Some infrastructure, which is built through a public-private partnership through a grant concession, is then managed for a certain concession period and then returned to ownership and management, after the end of the concession period, into the ownership and management of the Republic of Slovenia or the State or the concessionaire, i.e. the one that awarded the concession. So much for what's going on with these concessions, whether any concessions are planned in Luka Koper. Once again, as it is said to reach the financial structure of the second track, this is by no means necessary. Today, there have also been quite a few perceptions, which are really just the opposite of what the government is up to, as well as at the ministry and as a minister. These are obvious that by opting for a public-private partnership, we are actually setting some conditions for other TES 6. I think that we need to talk about this, because this observation is actually exactly the opposite of what this government is trying to do. We know what was happening in the TES 6 project, that the investment programme there predicted lower prices of the basic energy, that is, coal than today's actual, and also predicted a higher selling price of electricity than we have today. If we are setting up a comparison here with a second track project, this coal price in some way can be said that in this case it represents financing the construction of the second track itself, while the selling price of electricity could be translated to represent the quantity of cargo that Port Koper will provide on this track with the development of its business. Therefore, if we want to limit the risks of this investment, it is necessary to ensure that Luka Koper provides the appropriate transhipment and also participates in this project and thus assumes the risk of this growth of the transhipment. Otherwise, in this position, when only Luka Koper says that the state should build us and they will do what they can and will have in some plans, then there is a risk that this development will follow the needs of this investment. However, if Luke cooperates, he will ensure this with one another. It will ensure its growth, development, because it will know that it must also ensure that this whole linkage, the development of Luke and the functioning of this infrastructure will work. We know that TES 6 also went wrong because the investment somehow got out of control because it started to build, as has already been said, on some cracks of imprecise assumptions, there was no closure of the financial structure, and because then it was lacking when the investment started building, even under a baseline under-estimated value, which was favourable to convince the investor that it had started to build, in short, when it started to work and when it started to lack money, the investment was uncontrolled and then there was no longer a solution. We know how the story ended then that the investment value itself had practically doubled, and we all know what the reason was, so at the beginning the underestimated value and poor assumptions of this project, what we need and how this can be covered. We are trying to avoid all these issues in this second track project, so we want to carefully assess its value, precisely establish this financial structure for the entire value of the investment, and then give the works to the best bidder, and also know that we will pay that offer, that is, the value of the parts. In this way, the investment may be under control, there is no unforeseen irritation, there is no shortage of funds for construction, and this is the key to allowing the investment to be under control. In addition, frequent visits were made to various investors, investors, logistics infrastructure operators at the Ministry. Yes, the second track project is interesting for a lot of investors. We know that projects worth around EUR billion are not very common and are interested in participating in this project, both investors and those who would build the track, say, construction companies. It must not, in fact, be, and there is nothing wrong with it. We have also notified all these visits to the Commission to prevent corruption. On all these visits, we have informed everyone who has come about what the second track plans are, and we have also explained to everyone that it is only possible to participate in this project on the basis of calls for proposals, which is very transparent, in the context of the competition of all those who will apply for these calls. That was not the case with us, on my part, given no promises of any kind to any kind of conclusion of business. In that sense, I am also rejecting any evidence that we are trying to do any unusual business here, which can somehow be surmised from these discussions. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to briefly touch on some other issues that have been raised with regard to other infrastructure issues. It was a question of what brings duality on the route from Divaca to Kopra, or it could in any way endanger Slovenian railways, that is to say our carrier. Here I can firmly ensure that such additional infrastructure cannot endanger any carrier, but can only benefit all carriers. We also need to ensure that infrastructure is accessible to all carriers in accordance with the European legal order. More than these infrastructures, these carriers can have more opportunities for their development and for their successful operation. The problem is, of course, if infrastructure has bottlenecks, then all carriers are in trouble. We know that we face such problems from time to time on this track, and this is also one of the key reasons why we need to get to this new track as soon as possible. There was a question about the railway connection Ljubljana–Kočevje. I have also set this railway link as one of the priorities for us to move forward and complete this reconstruction, which has been going on for many years, and only that last phase between Ribnica and Kočev has run out. In short, something has already been invested in the past or some of the funds have been invested, which does not produce the right result if that last end has not yet been put in and completed. So we want to close this project. To this end, final preparations have been made; we are just ahead of the conclusion of a contract to carry out construction works in this section. Today, the deadline for any complaints made by unchosen tenderers expires. If there are no such complaints, we will be able to conclude a contract for construction works and it will begin to build in this year. The following is also the call for signal-safety equipment. This is how we expect this project to be completed in 2018, the funds for this are foreseen in the budgets. This project will also help to solve the problem of access of the entire region, which is linked to the so-called third A axis, from Ljubljana to Ribnica, Kočev and then to the Croatian border. In short, we are actually working more actively here to improve this linkage in this region as well. There's this train connection. This year, Šmarje-Sap, which will improve accessibility, has started to be built in the Škofljica area, we know that we are meeting with a large narrow throat, where we are also working intensively on measures to establish four-way transport. In the following we also count the movement on the positioning of the carriageway itself. Public passenger transport, park and ride has been established. In short, a few measures are taking place here to improve this narrow throat and connect this region to central Slovenia. The question was how we are progressing with the establishment of a national traffic management centre. I can tell here that there's been movement, that the center is teaming up. We have a certain leader. There are also calls for the recruitment of these staff that will operate within this centre. The centre will be physically located in the facility where Darsov's transport and information centre works. That's in Drago. This, I can say, will be set up there as a kind of upgrade that will link all these transport management activities carried out by Dars and the Infrastructure Directorate. The information portals were mentioned, or the need to make a move here on improved communication of drivers. That's what Dars is working on. These portals will still be hosting. However, great progress has been made, I think, also with a special application for mobile phones, through which we can at any time get information about the density and flow of the highway network in real time. We immediately see which sections and how many delays can be expected on some route. In fact, we recommend that all users be convinced of the state of accuracy before a quick look at this app. This also helps to improve traffic flow and safety. There was a question as to the placement of the third development axis. Here we know that it is imperative to complete the accommodation in this missing section from the highway between Ljubljana and Maribor to Velenje. This is a section that we know is being carried out this year with a great deal of activity in order to stop this placement and to reopen the debate on other more appropriate options that have already been studied in the past have been rejected as inappropriate. I hope that all efforts will be made to ensure that this route, which has been proposed, is from Braslovč to Velenj, that this route will be further optimized and that there will be as much consensus as possible and consensus as to the appropriateness of this accommodation in the space and that we will reach this State Spatial Plan as soon as possible. It's the end of this year, the beginning of next year. I would not like this to happen later, so that we can continue the activities that Dars is already carrying out on the north section, from Velenja to Slovenj Gradac, where the activities for the production of project documentation are already starting, to obtain land, so that we can start building these necessary links in 2018. This is true both in this section, as said from Velenja to Slovenj Gradac, and in the section in the south, where I received an impression a few days ago that I was doing something inappropriate or diverting European funds for this section from the New Town to the White Landscape with the tunnel under the Gorjanci until the accession of Malina. I can say that today, too, that it's not true. I wonder, in fact, that we all know that when I took up this mandate, this section was within the competence of the Slovenian Directorate for Infrastructure, which we know of the difficulties it faces in providing resources to finance at least the existing network. And there was absolutely no way that the directorate was able to finance a section, it is said only this small section from the New City to Revoz, from the highway to Revoz, which is worth 100 million euros, despite the provision of 40 million European funds. There was absolutely no way that this department could be financed, I repeat, only to be able to finance an even more difficult and expensive section, including the tunnel under the Gorjanci. Therefore, the only responsible decision of me, as minister and this government, to transfer the responsibility of this investment to Dars, who will also collect the toll at this section, could be financed by providing adequate guarantees in the context of the debt it carries out, and by means of appropriate activities, ensuring that these funds will be drawn up – the 40 million euro earmarked for this first section of the motorway to Revoz. In fact, we have ensured that this investment will be able to move from the city and that these European funds will also be used for this purpose for which they are intended. So much for the third development axis. I've already shown this diagram about investment in road infrastructure itself. As we say, we are also aware of ourselves, and we want this level of resources to increase further, but in the framework of all the constraints and needs within the budget, we can provide inputs to this road structure in these years. I may now be talking about certain matters that Mrs Alenka Bratušek spoke about. It was made clear that we actually applied for the CEF invitation to tender in February 2015 and obtained no euro for the second track from this tender. That's true, of course. We know what the reasons were for not being successful on this call. The reason was the low maturity of the project, the lack of a building permit and so on. We are now intensively closing these cases so that we can successfully run on the next calls. Of course, Mrs Bratuškova did not say that we have earned EUR 50 million on this call for proposals for other projects, which are also carried out on railway infrastructure. Thus, this application was not fully unsuccessful. There was a question about Dars' toll call. Here, let me just say that, in fact, at the Ministry, we are not more intensive, more involved in the implementation of this call and all this investment. This is a matter that Dars will manage independently, which he will also finance and also then find out. However, this call is of course very important or the free movement of electronic tolls for freight vehicles is very important in order to ensure the fullest possible tolling of freight vehicles. We know that there are now sections where trucks do not pay the toll. Once this is done, this important objective will be achieved for toll vehicles to be towed on actual kilometres across the entire motorway network and thus additional inflows to Dars will also be ensured. There is an estimated EUR 15 million per year, which will also provide Dars with the appropriate capacity to finance the investments I have already mentioned today. The third development axis will, of course, be the main among them. Road safety is something that, of course, we cannot be satisfied with. I wish these statistics weren't what they are. On the other hand, the fact that many countries within the European Union are in fact facing a decline, stagnation or even a deterioration in transport security. There are also a number of debates on where the reasons are. On the one hand, it is certainly possible to increase traffic intensity. We also see the density of freight traffic itself, the density of tourism traffic during the transport season. All of this is followed by a certain deterioration in transport safety. Certainly, however, I would not want to speculate on how much, and how much, there may have been contributed here by the fact that there was a little less traffic control in this first half of this year. We at the Ministry are working hard to ensure that traffic safety does not deteriorate. On the one hand, they are investments in road infrastructure; on the other hand, they are awareness-raising activities and all other activities carried out by police and other organisations, in particular NGOs working in this area. Maybe in this place, you'd be done with these things. I would also like to mention this in relation to this project, Prague-Hodoš, where it has been reported that the project is not successful because trains do not drive or as a result the region of Goričko faces difficulties in electricity supply. While there is one diagram that probably won't be very well seen far, it shows the level of electrical tension, this is this red line where everyday fluctuations are present. This diagram shows the observed period since this June, July, August, September. The red line is the level of tension in the region of Gorička, and blue are the lines or peaks where the power consumption for the electric train is on the railway. In short, it is obvious that there is no correlation between these clothes and the state of tension in this area. This way, too, we can argumentally reject these allegations that there was anything wrong with this project. So much for once, but I am still looking forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Minister Gaspersich. The text is requested by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you. It's a very short response. As far as public funding is concerned, the minister says that it is not possible or categorically rejected. And it is a reasonable question whether each year we can provide an appropriate share. I think we can talk about it after about 36 million a year. I am not saying that this is a small amount of money, but the fact that it would not have affected the models that have been proposed how this would have been integrated into the logic of the fiscal rule. The minister made a mistake, too, when he said that if the state took the loan, it would affect public debt. This has nothing to do with the fiscal rule or the Stability Pact. The fiscal rule refers to the deficit, and if a suitable alternative were to be found to finance this loan, such as a petrol cent, which you once proposed, this effect would be approximately neutral and would not affect the deficit, consequently would not affect the implementation of the fiscal rule and would consequently be in line with the fiscal pact and other commitments that Slovenia has given to various institutions. As far as this funding is concerned. The country has already given 200 million euros. A similar amount can be calculated from European funds, leaving around €500 million of this credit. They are not small amounts, but I repeat, I think a way could be found to allow such a flow, especially public funding. But I've explained why many times. Because it's cheaper than a public-private partnership. As regards the need to precisely determine the value of the project, two years have passed. Two years actually shows how much it costs to actually build this track. I think that this should be the first priority if actually building the first objective or one of the main objectives of your ministry, as the government has committed itself. The value of the project we are going to carry out is probably what we need first. Now, after two years, we still don't have that. Regarding the participation of Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper. In some ways, what you have said is that it is these two entities, which would be a private investor, i.e. a partner in this project, which raises a number of questions. By the way, the benefits of the route are not only Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper, but also trade flows, logistics, traders and so on. By this logic, all these entities should be included in the project. But okay, let's just leave it. In particular, with regard to the participation of Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper. Have you actually come to these two companies with a proposal to participate in this project? Have you presented to them the vision of the participation of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways in the construction of the second track and to what extent and to what extent do you anticipate or see the participation of these two companies? It seems to me that this awakening of the idea of a logistics holding company, which has been presented several times. The other thing is what Eurostat would say about this. If Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railway had already been over-indebted, the Slovenian Railways had already been over-indebted and Luka Koper was in charge of other investments, the question is whether this would not have been counted under state debt. You also said that Luke Koper must be the one to provide the transshipment. Luca Koper, as far as I can tell, is doing everything she can to overload as much as possible. This year, at half-year, the transshipment increased by 6%, by 9% last year. If someone's blocking this transhipment, it's actually your ministry that doesn't give consent. If you now say in some way that these concessions will not exist, does this mean that consent will now be granted to Luke Koper for the expansion of activities? Otherwise, the pre-shipment for construction financing does not have much link or is irrelevant, since the use of carriers is estimated to be 1.4 million per year in such a way that there is still a lot of other room for manoeuvre. As far as lobbyists are concerned, I wouldn't say the second track itself is interesting for investors. What's interesting is what it brings. And this is the availability paid by the Republic of Slovenia or the state, that is, the subsidy, as I prefer to say, and as a result, if criminals go to the Ministry, they probably do not come because they want to build a second track, but because they probably have some other vision of how the port of Cyprus would develop.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mr Marjan Dolinšek. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Of course also Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure! In the introduction, we would like to say that, in fact, in the National Assembly, we have already made a second practical reference to interpellation against Minister Gašperšič. The first interpellation can count on the debate of the National Assembly on my second-track question, and the National Assembly has decided to hold a debate in response to the Minister's response. We held a debate. Of course, the debate is different from the interpolation in that you cannot take decisions in the debate, and the fact is that the shift was made from that debate and I would like to point out exactly what the Minister said in his reply. Thus, on 31 March 2016, the Government adopted a decision establishing a specific project company, 2TKK, a project development company. On 30 June 2016, a contract was concluded for the production of the study, the verification of the estimated value and all possible rationalisation and optimization for the project of the second line of the Divača-Koper railway line, three months after the contract was signed. There's a small mistake here, if I may say so, or a warning. A little too fast today, we've got an interpolation on the agenda. If it were at the next meeting of the National Assembly, this report would already be on the table, and the Minister would have clearer answers based on this assessment of the value of investment and rationalisation, what values are actually involved. Even in the National Assembly, we would have more concrete information on how we will decide and what measures we will take below. But no matter how fast this interpolation is on the agenda, but in any case when this study is completed or this check is completed, we will certainly have this data and probably follow one of the discussions on how to actually realize this second track. However, what is very important and also mentioned in the activities, if I may say so, also on the basis of this question and the Minister's reply, is that it will provide the legal basis for the implementation of the investment under the newly established company 2TKK. So it is a law in which resources will be defined and not least how this second track will be carried out: whether this will be a public-private partnership, although the minister is still talking about a public-private partnership, but I repeat the words that I said at the time in the debate, there was no private partner then and there will be no private partner in the future, I am sure of that. It will be very important how this law is prepared. One of the options the Minister certainly has is to draw up the text of a law that will take account of the financing of the second track with public resources. In this case, the decision, which, while being proposed by the proposers to discharge the minister from this function, is, among other things, one of the points of the second indent, among others, but it seems to me that the second track is the most important, important decision that the National Assembly will make today or not. But even if he rejects this decision, this law remains as crucial as I think it will be for the fate of the Minister and for the development of this second track. This law will be passed by the National Assembly. This law will show the start date of construction, completion of construction and the value of it. When we face a value assessment, it is undeniable that if we approach a public-private partnership, this value will be significantly higher. Due to the higher costs of financing the route and the revenues expected by the private person on that route. The estimates made by economists show that this cost in 30 years will pay these commitments, even for €1.4 billion, which means that we will overpay another track if we go through a public-private partnership. On the other hand, even if it is a public-private partnership, the return of this route will not be such that it can cover all the obligations of the private partner and the State will have to help. The calculation shows that at 30 years of age, the country should help the private with €90 million per year. If we go to finance with public funds, it is an obligation, but if we assume that we have 200 million at our disposal and if the state finances, investment value, without knowing what the verification of value will show, is one billion. We already have 200 million in the budget, leaving 800 million to go. If 800 million are financed either by bonds or by credit to the European Investment Bank, the annual commitment is 40 million, which is significantly lower. If the private is financed, we will have to pay $90 million annually, if by public means, the government is obliged to pay $40 million annually. And now I wonder if this country can't provide $40 million a year to close the financial structure with public funds within 30 years. It's not just about giving up your own resources. Minister, you will actually have to consider this and prepare an alternative bill not only for public-private partnerships but also for public funding. And if the Government won't want to put him in the process, come to Parliament, I'm sure that the Members will read this law, consult economists and be prepared to put this law into the procedure. I would even like to say that people in the referendum would decide on this law to be financed by the state, because it will be significantly cheaper and will also bring about economic growth. And if I stop for a moment at the table you showed, yes, there has been a drastic decline in funds following the economic crisis in the field of infrastructure transport. Drastic. They were drastically reduced in health care, severely reduced in education, defence or the entire security system, defence and police, as well as drastic. And look what we've done in this country. That's what I need to remind you of when you say we're not selling Luke Koper, we're not selling railways, etc. At the moment when we are in Parliament or you have decided in Parliament to enter the fiscal rule into the constitution, when we have very low revenues in the state budget due to low economic growth and when the Law on the implementation of the fiscal rule has been adopted, a decision has been taken to sell state property in Slovenia. You are here today to assure us that you cannot provide an effective infrastructure system with these funds that you have at your disposal. The Ministry of Health cannot provide an effective health system without additional resources, for which it is said to be absent to this extent. He also sees the development of higher education and primary education in privatization or in school. This decision has been taken, and this is one of the most harmful decisions that has been taken. The first thing is, we will have to get a two-thirds majority in Parliament in the future to put an end to this nonsense. But as long as this is enshrined in the Constitution and this law has been passed, Minister, the only solution to you is to get rid of this debt, which is economic growth. In fact, no country in the world will get rid of the debt by saving. There's no principle that would lead to that. The more you save, the longer you owe. And the standard of people is falling in between. The state will never get rid of it, nor will Slovenia, of its obligations with loans. The only thing that saves us is economic growth. Here is this point where you can become the best minister of this government if you allow economic growth. And this economic growth in Slovenia is truly linked to Luka Koper and to the development of its capacity. It is largely linked to the development of the rail network and the capacity of the freight which this rail network can bring. The fact is that Luka Koper increased the transhipment five times between 1991 and 2014 and became the most successful North Adriatic port. It's a success story. And now we're stopping it, not letting it expand its activities. 53% of this processed goods are on the railway. It means that in Slovenia we have a system that should also be financed by a CO2 tax. Because if this cargo were to go down the road, they would be burdening the environment, but it's 53% on the railway, and that's why it's also possible to finance this investment with a CO2 tax. What awaits us is actually a conversation in the coast with all the congregations, because it is necessary to say how much cargo we can increase by increasing the first pier, the second pier, and how much by building the third pier. This transhipment has its limits, which will have to be met with the local population to know what kind of burden comes into their environment. As a result, you calculate your transshipment obligations or the possibility of transshipment on the railway. However, the fact is that even when we look at this part of the railway, it is essentially a category of heavy mountain tracks. Twenty-five miles has a slope of this track, and you need two, three locomotives to bring this cargo. The new project has a 17-mile slope, which means that one locomotive is needed, not three, to bring substantially more cargo than now brought by three locomotives. Rationalisation, calculated only because the route will be shorter by 16.6 kilometers and because the cost of one locomotive will be lower, we will be saved annually only at this point of 27 million. I mentioned the figure earlier when we finance the country's annual 40 million liabilities through public funds. 27 million we have lower costs for operators only because of better terrain configuration and a larger pre-shipment. So the solutions are in the palm of your hand. And all those who do not wish to somehow indicate that this solution exists, it is better to make them public by their names, that I am not the only one talking about that one of the key persons is Mr Yuri Kač, Director of the DRI, managing the investments that I know do not support this investment. These things need to be cleaned up as soon as possible, not waiting for this strategic advantage to be lost. Economic growth is the one that can save us even during the fiscal rule. Only greater economic growth will provide us with a larger gross domestic product, more money for infrastructure, education, health care and everything else. And here's the key. Port Koper can create more dividends, more people can hire, Slovenian railways can become the most profitable system and logistics is also one of those activities in Slovenia, which is rapidly growing, allowing it to actually experience even greater levels and even greater economic growth in Slovenia. What I am placing on your heart, Minister, is the fact that you are making a law that provides for the financial structure that we are closing with public funds. Without that, it is the thought of raising public debt to prevent us from doing so. It is only necessary to calculate what economic growth we can create with all the revenue in the budget. And this law can certainly write down the following, for example, that the concession from Luka Koper, which goes into the integral budget, is intended for 2TKK. That the dividend paid by Luka Koper in the integral budget is paid to this company. And if I just take these last digits, that's a good 12 million dollars already. With an increase in this bulkhead, which will certainly be possible, we will be estimated at almost €29 million from these two charges. Then it's also a utility for rail infrastructure. This law must in fact make it possible that these are the sources for the payment of these loans. And there are Luka Koper and Slovenian railways, as well as petrol cents. Look, over the last six years it's obvious that the price of fuel is fluctuating somewhere for 40 cents. And no one's making this very complicated. Only 0.32 cents is needed for this to be an additional resource needed to pay these liabilities only 0.32. Not to mention that we need money for the third development axis, and I welcome the decision to move Dars forward with the third development axis, especially in this southern leg, where matters are largely prepared. But there are other investments where we could actually make a major breakthrough with one cent. We're having economic growth again. And I would like to see that Minister of Finance who will oppose such a law and such economic growth if we provide these resources. Minister, indeed, it is before you if you want to fulfill this commitment to start building a second track, otherwise you will resign, in the following year this is actually possible only with public resources. There's no other choice. Come with this, and I think you'll definitely get an accomplice in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Before I give the floor to Mrs Violeta Tomić, allow me to continue to give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I would just like to respond briefly to these matters or proposals raised by Mr Janko Weber. I would really like to clarify here these facts as to whether a public-private partnership necessarily means that it is more expensive for taxpayers or that it is destructive for the budget. The models of the public-private partnership are abundant. Each project shall develop a model of a public-private partnership corresponding to the specificities and funding opportunities for inflows, which will then finance this investment. That's the way it is in this case. In fact, we need to find a model that will at least burden taxpayers. I have been stressing this all the time, today also in the opening address and also in the past. In short, the key to this model being successful is that it will not ultimately burden taxpayers as much as it would if they went directly from the budget. This objective is being pursued, and this can be achieved if, in this business and financial model to be established under this 2TKK company, it is possible to provide some income, some inflows that will come from the activities that the participating companies will carry out in doing so. If we're really going to look at this as a project of some kind of railway infrastructure, so the resources that are generated, really just this utility, then there's no story here. However, if we attract and participate actively and take these two of our biggest logistics companies for their project, the story is quite different. I want us to really start talking at the common table and find out how we're gonna get to this solution. That was my sincere purpose from the very beginning of this term. And when Mr Vatovec asked whether I had already joined these two companies, you know that in November 2014 I tried to establish this dialogue on my first train ride on the existing track. On the one hand, on the side of the Slovenian Railways, this interest in finding these solutions existed and exists today, on the other hand, it was retained, although it was expressed there, but immediately in the following days, the activities we witnessed all this time, from those studies that the Faculty of Economics, with Professor Jožet P. Damian and funded by Luka Koper, to the statements of the President of the Administration, who said that any such cooperation would lead to a model of holding connection that had already been rejected in the past by Luka Koper. In short, Luke Koper is not in favour of any such cooperation and insists on ensuring it from the budget. But they should not be touched in their development. I would also like this to be possible to finance from the budget. Fastest, easiest. Given that we have a building permit, today we would be discussing the implementation of the tender and at the beginning of the year we could choose the contractor. However, this is not so easy or feasible in the face of all these limitations, as it is said. We may also be able to discuss some specific law, as you have proposed, and on this basis, of course, we must continue to work, and we want to find a model to include both our companies in order to establish such a model, such a way of financing that it will at least burden the budget, taxpayers and at the same time ensure the successful development of both companies. Here we must find this balance, and I hope and count, if we step together and look at the table constructively for these solutions, we can have these solutions very quickly on the table and then the law is ready. And as I said and committed myself to it, next year we will publish this call for construction and start building this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Prepare Mr Marjan Dolinšek and Mr Primož Hainz. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u56	Yes, thank you for your word. This government, and in particular Minister Gasperšič, is a living proof of what Chomsky has already said, and this is that the policy of the shadow that capital throws among the people. The Prime Minister has already declared that the country is run by the lobby, and this is the end of our sovereignty and our statehood. However, the SMC, as the strongest party in the absence of arguments for the Minister's defence, is insulting us. Here we have heard that we are a society that interpels the minister, that we are political opportunists from Mrs Kolesh. We have also heard from the leader of Simone Kustec Lipicer's parliamentary group that the interpretation revolves around money and capital. Yes, of course, it revolves around capital and money, because we have heard that in the last three months, 140 lobbyists, such as Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank and 138 similar lobbyists, have become ministers. And then we heard it was speculation by the professional public. Of course, there are also speculations by the opposition. It's speculation by civil society, people, and I believe that we want to replace the people. But believe me, people will replace you sooner or later. You talk all the time here so we don't want to burden people and taxpayers, and we explain to you all the time that we're talking about public-private partnership being twice as expensive. Proven twice as expensive. When you say you want evidence and don't just want suspicions, listen carefully to us and you will hear evidence that 36 million are at risk because of unprepared documentation – and they will go back to Europe – for the third development axis. That's evidence, too. As with the delay or the failure to build the second track, Minister Gasperšič is also guilty of delaying the construction of the third development axis. Let's touch this part. At the beginning of the year, the minister announced that the construction of the third development axis from the lower highway to the new town of Revoz in the length of five kilometres will begin by 2020 at the latest, and this will obviously not happen. Dars took over the projects from the Ministry last year, and now he has to compete for the bridge over Krka and Ločna. The early construction of the second track is of course of utmost importance for the development of Primorska as well as for the whole of Slovenia, but the construction of the third development axis is no less important. If we witnessed an extremely significant drop in the deal for Luka Koper a few months ago, when the shipment of Daimler's cars was diverted to a competitive port due to the inability of railway links with Luka Koper, we can probably expect similar occurrences very soon in the New Town Revoz. By the end of the year, Revoz will have the prospect of making a new Clia and the traffic on these roads will consequently increase by 300 trucks per day. But as of today, this road connection is at the border or, rather, fairly across the border of its capacity. I've already told Minister Gaspersic that when I drive across the Gorjani, I think about him. I think very intensely about him, but you can think what I mean. The White landscape road network is completely inadequate in view of the needs of the economy and the population, and this has a significant impact on the competitiveness of the economy and the region as a whole. As for the second track, Minister Gasperšič also made sure that the third development axis was kept as close as possible. In 2014 the Directorate for Roads prepared all the necessary documentation for the start of construction. Not too soon after Mr Gaspersic took over the ministry, however, the transfer of the project to Dars began to be considered. And I admit that at the beginning of my new term I was very optimistic, because, as we have seen, Minister Gasperšič can make a lot of promises, he can speak kindly, and I was myself visiting him on February 2, 2015, at a meeting with him and his associates, where Minister Gasperšič, if he were here, could look me in the eye and say that he did promise me that October 2016 will be the first bagger under Gorjanci. We put our hands in front of the witnesses, and he gave me that promise, confirmed. In short, October 2016 is here at the door, but the swamps will not be for long, not long. Thus, the southern part of this third part of the development axis could be transported by 2019. That is why this statement, which Minister Gašperšič has afforded, is that if the construction of the second track does not begin by the end of next year, is actually one of the most arrogant so far. If I return to his promise to start the construction of the third development axis in October 2016. The development of events following this promise was minimal, for which it is also the responsibility of Minister Gasperšič as well as the development of developments concerning the second track. At the beginning of 2015, I personally engaged myself in finding at the Government of Development and Cohesion Service money for the construction of the PGD project permit for this tunnel under Gorjanci. We've been in contact with the Ministry the whole time, we've been talking, and we've been here all the time. So we're not talking to you, we're telling you the facts, honourable Members of the coalition. And by then the PGD had not been available and in March this money was available, and the Roads Directorate could have started to produce this PGD, but Minister Gasperšič had started to transfer the entire project to Dars. And this transmission lasted a year. When we suggested to him that at this time, however, the PGD, which we have already found money for, should be parallel to the transfer of work, Minister Gasperšič made this impossible. And then Dars began slowly to get acquainted with the project and at the beginning of this year they found that the project, look at it, was missing quite a bit. However, there are as many cases as the Infrastructure Ministry has not prepared. They also found that an architectural competition should be held, which caused the clock to close again for the whole year. The Ministry of Infrastructure is now taking on all responsibilities and explaining that Dars has taken on all responsibilities along with the project, including construction deadlines. They got the chicken egg, and now Dars is to blame. I am convinced, however, that if the third development axis were built and everything was okay, the Minister would be very happy to cut the tape and own all the credit for it and say that this government has taken care of this development, to build a third development axis. Although now that the project is ready too slow and weak, of course it has nothing to do with it and Dars is to blame. As Minister, he is objectively responsible for things that are happening in the department. This month we heard him talking in the media – I wanted to address him personally, but I can't now, I believe he had to get out a little after so many hours – to do things on his conscience. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! The news is something that many are here, not only here in this hall, but here in this country of Slovenia amputated. This body, or whatever we say to this conscience, does not have many who decide in this country. If we were to work on our conscience, we wouldn't be sitting here today for all these long hours. Similarities with the construction of the second track can also be seen in the spatial placement of the third development axis. It is true that the Ministry of Environment is primarily responsible for this, but the Ministry of Infrastructure plays an important role in this, but it has agreed to a more expensive version of the F2 road from Velenje to the Štajerska highway near Braslovča, instead of building the fast road at more than half the cost of the F6. And don't talk about worrying about taxpayers, because it doesn't actually hold. All Members have also received a letter from the Civil Initiative of Braslovče. You read it. And here are the facts, don't say that they're not the facts that tell you about the data. Of course, on the basis of the civil initiative, their studies and our achievements in Trs, part of the United Left Coalition, we have filed a criminal complaint against Minister Gasperšić, as well as Barbara Radovan, director of the Directorate for Space at the Ministry of Environment and Space, for the purpose of damaging public funds, the bride's work in the service, falsification of the official charter and the burden and destruction of the environment, together with colleagues and co-workers who produce a state spatial plan for the installation of the Velenje-AC1 road link, according to version F2-2. In short, the F2 project is more expensive than that F6, not only at the expense of the direct costs of higher construction costs, but also at the expense of destroying more than 100 hectares of the best agricultural land with a credit rating of 60-90, namely 114 hectares of the best agricultural land. While the cheaper route F6 destroys only 13 hectares of weaker agricultural land with a credit rating of 35. In addition, it is a route that will lead to the destruction of irrigation systems that have been subsidised by the State, which has reached into the already executed hop-field composting, which, by the way, is the best hop far around precisely because of the special microclimate and good land. And, of course, this intervention will help to reduce food supply and food security as a result. Here I am interested in the opinion of the Minister for Agriculture – here is the secretary I welcome – because he is the Vice-President of this Government. And we're always talking about self-sustainment, we're talking about new irrigation systems, but we've heard SD Members happily support this minister, who will simply make a route that will have a huge impact on the environment, including on protected areas within the framework of Nature 2000. The most flawed route is the fact that it is intended primarily to connect Koroška with Celje, where a large number of people are going to work. This, of course, is the purpose of the third development axis – to enable regional development and to relieve local transport. This would be the easiest way to get the highway from Velenje to the Styrian highway as close as possible to Celje. The choice preferred by the ILO and the MIF is the worst in this respect. In short, despite all these facts and despite the strong resistance of the local population, Minister Gasperšič does not depart from the construction on the route F2. In short, 114 hectares of the best agricultural land, water source Podvin and Podgora, 43 families will be displaced and there will be highway refugees, here are small farms, all buildings that will collapse, 120, destruction of the cultural and natural landscape, with the dominant Mount Oljka, which is an important entry area into our pearl Logar Valley. I say this because of the people who listen to us, because the Members have received this letter and are ignoring it. Let me also touch on the fact that 2TKK was established just like that, overnight, 6 million for the studies spent. Remember at the Ministry of Agriculture, how many negotiations were held for the Slovenian Forest Company, d.o.o., how many coalition coordinations and how many adjustments. This is where this company came through just like that. Well, I think waiting for Minister Gasperšič to step down on his own on the new year and that Santa Claus will bring us his resignation is completely irresponsible, respected coalition MPs. It is also completely irresponsible because every day of his ministry causes millions of damage. Our complaint has made us know that officials are subject to different rules than all other citizens. If you park wrong, if the inn blocks anything wrong, it gets big, big, big inspection costs, fines. while the official thus launches EUR 36 million or Lucian Bembič because of the bride's work in the service of EUR 9 million, nothing happens to him. If you are indeed in the service of people who have elected you and not in the service of capital, not in the service of corporations, then work at the service of people, and I call on you to support this interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Mr Marjan Dolinšek is next in line to prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you, Chairman. All the present, respected ministerial assembly, colleagues, colleagues and all those who accompany today's meeting! Obviously, this debate can be understood in the beginning, mainly around the second track of Luka Koper and the railway tracks of Hodoš. Looks like they're really big appetites. I understand the colleagues who have proposed the interpretation, but it would be good for them to first get well informed and reviewed, the information is publicly available, the work of this government and also the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure, headed by Minister Gasperšić. Interpellators are obviously also in the lead of some interests, at least so I understand, especially in Luka Koper in the direction that nothing would have happened to keep everything the way it is. As far as the second track is concerned, the state must build the entire value of the project with tax money, if this is good for our citizens, I do not know, it is necessary to ask, indeed, all those who accompany it, if this is well against what the Minister is advocating, our government does not burden taxpayers. Let's ask ourselves if we want another TEC. One is enough for us, the story is not yet complete, and it will still have a severe headache. However, our government had nothing to do with the various stories that happened with the Annexes until 2014. It would be good to take a look at what has been done in the entire area covered by the Ministry of Infrastructure during this period. Efforts have been made since day one to prevent this project. Today it has been heard several times, we listen every day, it is too slow, I think it is for citizens who listen to the same things every day. The second track is our government's priority. Today, Mr Gasperšič was clear, he repeated several times, he pledged himself that the second year, if it did not start and if the project did not go into reality as it was set up, he would resign. I think he put himself on the ground, and I believe he meant it. If I touch this sweet second track a little bit longer. For 20 years we have revolved around this second track in Slovenia. What was done in 20 years? However this government, this ministry, Minister Gasperšič, has made a move not to list the chronology from 2014 onwards to today, will be more than two years slow, a few days later, but rather just talking [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, chairman, make peace in the hall. There have been opportunities, and our government's perceptions are very unrealistic and inappropriate. The readings that appear at these four points of interpolation were clearly prepared inadvertently and without any evidence, especially in the part where the word "menda", "proposedly" and so on. That's a little unserious. Of course, each interpretation allows, in accordance with Article 118 of the Constitution, to verify either the complete government or the individual minister covering a specified area, the interpretation is about the work of the government or the individual ministry. I will no longer touch on these three projects when they are such a hot topic. Normally it's safe when it comes to a lot of money, they're appetites without limits. I would like to continue to touch on the work and achievements of the Minister, who is the head of the Ministry of Infrastructure, what has been done and done. People would even think there was nothing going on, just something written and so on. Let me take my turn. First of all, I would like to touch what has also been heard today by my colleague Dimičev, namely the non-action of the National Traffic Management Centre. Another lie and a lie that appeared in this hall. People in front of the TV screens are watching this session and I need to explain the following. The National Traffic Management Centre, which brings together some management tasks in the field of motorways and state roads and is expected to later also to be railways, was implemented in 2015 with facilities for the centre in Dragelj and the construction of additional parking spaces for the purpose of the establishment of the National Traffic Management Centre. This fulfilled the spatial conditions for the establishment of this centre at the end of 2015. In 2016, this centre was structured as an internal organisational unit of the Ministry of Infrastructure in accordance with the Roads Act. The activities necessary to fully assume the tasks conferred by this national centre under the law shall be carried out at the premises in Dragomlje. EU funds have also been successfully acquired for the individual segments of this centre. It is the establishment of a national access point for statistical and dynamic traffic management, the establishment of a data warehouse. A single road data access point was also established in 2016, which will make digitalised data available from the road data bank, counters, cameras, RDS TMC location and income tables and managed standards in the field of intelligent transport systems. That's one explanation. Another explanation and statement, which I also have to deny, apparently some of our colleagues and colleagues have very sketchy information, even though they are publicly available. Mrs Dimic mentioned that the rail freight normally travels to Divaca and from there to Koper with'scrapers'. That's exactly what she said. I have to say, that's not true. The Divača-Koper track is electrified and electric trains drive there. So much for an explanation. Now I must explain to my colleague, Violet Tomič, because she has made improper accusations, at least ask if you have already replied or if you will respond to a letter we received from all Members of the Parliament of the SMC, the Civil Initiative of Braslovce regarding the third developmental axis. They will receive an answer within the agreed, prescribed time limit set out in this letter. So I would also ask the public to be informed because all such instigations have only one purpose — to politically discredit. Nothing else. If I keep going in line. Two segments I'd like to point out a little bit more about what was done. There's our roads. Before that, colleague Dimic said: "The situation on Slovenian roads and on Slovenian railways is terrible." Yeah, it was awful. The minister had previously shown a fine chart and things were when we took them into our hands, such that we had to think seriously. The data is reliable, so I think what we've seen on the graph before is true, and things are getting better slowly. Unfortunately, in two months, I don't know what great things to do, given the financial resources available. On this side, I have to say that I'm happy, and I hope the minister, even though this thing is hard when you have an interpolation, but on the other hand, it's okay, you can do a little commercial. At least out loud you can tell yourself what you've done and what you've been doing, because otherwise there's never a chance. It's written in the paper, and people don't read it because there's nothing exotic about what it would be like to be something 'wow'. Again, someone didn't do anything. That's what everybody reads. I would like to walk through these practical achievements in this current term of office, which lasts for two years, and only with some more information, to operate. Thus, almost 100 million European funds have been drawn from completed cohesion projects from the 2014-2020 financial perspective in the field of rail and road infrastructure. Approximately a billion were invested in the modernisation and upgrading of Slovenian corridor tracks. I have to say myself, I was surprised by this information. I did not think that this represents such an amount of investment in Slovenian railways over the last two years. That's how it's done. If I'm going to move on now, and I'm still operating on some numbers. If we go to look after the years 2014, 2015, as well as 2016, for regular maintenance of roads, the government spent 71 million euros in 2015, which is the largest in the last ten years. More funds are allocated in 2016, namely 73.5 million. Thus, for the first time since 2010, we have managed to reverse the negative trend of investment in roads and investment maintenance of our roads. If I mention some of the projects that were already completed in 2015 and 2016, only some of the main projects will I fly over and if anyone wants, as I have already said, these data are available at the ministries. 5 in 2015 were built, 5 bypasses were built, 22.7 kilometres of new cycling links were established, 12 kilometres of state roads were reconstructed, 8 intersections were reconstructed, approximately 13 kilometres of road structures were repaired, and 7 kilometres of roads were arranged through settlements. And this has been happening all over Slovenia, not just in one piece. Now I'd go to 2016. By 1 September of this year, 30 sections of the total length of 32 kilometres had been renovated, and by the end of the year more overlays and renewals were planned on 60 sections of state roads at a total length of about 48 kilometres. Let me mention projects, reconstructions Medno, road section Sorica-Podrošt, Vodic –Moste, Rudnik-Lavrica, Kraje-Hrušica, Črmosnice-Crnomelj, Peršeti-Most na Soči, Ratec-Planica. Let me put out a rock in the Rippers, which is a sample example of how it can be done, and I must say that this project has been very demanding. Let me remind you, on February 20th this year, at 7 a.m., there was a rock disaster that closed the road at the Cementarna Trbovlje. The rock blocks of a total size of about 300 cubic metres have smothered the entire road and the part to the cement plant, so that the road was completely closed. 22. The Minister himself took over the role, visited the scene immediately, and agreed on how this activity would proceed. The main road leading from the town of Trbovlje across the bridge was completely untransportable and also insecure. The individual rocks ranged from 200 to 250 tons. Why am I saying this? Jehovah’s Name Is True, 11 / 22 2. Two days later, it is said that direct work has already begun. So in two days. On this occasion, I must once again say thank you to the Minister for his efforts, for he has always kept an eye on this, from morning to evening, in coordination with the local community, and in 40 days the opening was celebrated. However, the value was around EUR million plus VAT. Here I cannot understand the colleagues who proposed the interpretation, and from this place I would ask my colleagues from the United Left where they were when this happened. Where was Mr. Moon, who was elected in the Rippers? He wasn't anywhere. Nowhere, never in 40 days, not when it happened, not after the opening ceremony. So it's a little incorrect. Everything's wrong, nothing's done, and none of the colleagues who proposed want to mention it. At least they'd admit it hypocritically, but it was something good. He has an electoral base there in the Rippers – does he have any idea how he's going to be in the next election? I mean, there's a lot going on. A total of about 21 construction sites have been opened. Here I must mention a few main, viaduct on the road Bovec–Kobarid, then the arrangement of the intersection on the road Majšperk– Apache–Kidričeva, then the resort in the settlement Dobrovo in Goriška Brda, reconstruction of Gornja Radgona, Panonska cesta, Velenje, Črnov, Miklavž pri Ormož, Presik and so on. I would like to stress the following. All these projects, which I have now counted, have taken place, as I mentioned earlier, across Slovenia. I think that's pretty eloquent, and one would say, yes, how now only politically where SMC was sitting. I think I could also confirm my colleague Jan Mahnic, because a good example is in the Polish Valley of the Oblast of Gorenje Vas. It was a very large pump, I noticed it from the media, led by the mayor, also a fellow Member was always present, and I believe it was a great story. And even this part of the citizens really got the long-awaited thing that everyone deserves. I think it just confirms that the minister works for all citizens, doesn't look at the work they come from, where there's a road. Of course, it's limited by financial means. As far as rail infrastructure is concerned, I mentioned earlier that almost a billion had been invested. Pragersko-Hodoš, the uplifting railway line, this reconstruction or upgrade, which is all wrong with it, but if it is more detailed than before, we will get to know a different picture. The projects that are taking place or have already been completed should only list a few of them again, namely the course of Divac-Koper, which is completed. Upgrading of the railway section of Slovenska Bistrica–Pragersko. Then upgrade of the long-mountain-Polish railway line, completed. In the rail infrastructure sector, EUR 362 million was allocated only in 2015 for investment activities, which is more than once as much as it was in 2013. And almost five times as much as the funds used for this purpose in 2012. Let me just fly over. This year, the reconstruction of 27 bridge buildings will begin. Construction works are already under way at the 13km section of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway. In May 2016, an environmental permit was issued for the construction of the second tunnel of the Karavanka tunnel and could also be listed. I won't touch the development axis, whether it's the north or the south. A colleague mentioned Revoz's options in the final phase. I believe that the thing is not simple, of course, it will not start to build tomorrow, but from putting into space and the path itself, where it will go, what we have heard before, if we have talked more seriously in the last six years in these parts, perhaps today we can start with operational parts. Unfortunately, the situation is as it is. As far as the third development axis is concerned, I would like to make it clear that very much has been done in this relatively short period of two years and that great efforts have been made. It could always be better. As you know, we are limited in budgetary resources. We need to look at the whole picture and not just one side, but we need to have a balance of public finances and consolidation. Finally, I can say that in no part can I understand my colleagues from the United Left and this interpretation, which they have submitted mainly on these four points, which cannot be maintained in any part. It is clear that political discredit is at stake. This interpretation is not only directed at the minister, but also in a sense against the government, because we know that in the next we will deal with the second, the third I am sure that there will be another follower, but at least the opportunity to say in one place, to show what was done and how much was done. [[…]] Personally, I can't support or support this interpolation. But for the end, there's one more thing I'd like to do. It is only good if a person obtains appropriate information in the right place, which then also endure some interpretations, of an accusation. That it will not happen either on the one hand or on the other, as I have already said, whether Mrs Dimic or the colleagues who have proposed the interpretation, it is good if the information is so reliable that we can talk seriously about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare the mags. Lilliana Kozlovich and Mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary! I must say that we have a slight problem here with what colleague Dolinšek said. Of course, it's a long way from the fact that this ministry doesn't work and this minister doesn't work. The problem is that some of the points in the work are such that they are key points for further development. In this case, when we talk about Luka Koper or when we talk about the second track, Luka Koper is one of those key points in the long run, which means for the development of Slovenia as a whole a logistics center, is a logistics link that is then important for the generation in the future. It happens to us that competition works and this competition outside our space is looking for connections from other ports past us. And if we don't follow this development, then we have a problem. This is actually what we are talking about today, and that is why I am not going to talk about the multitude of things that have been done, but about where I think I have some concerns about the ministry's operation, despite the fact that we have agreed last in the Group of Members that we will not support the interpretation. Of course, I must say that, as I have heard today from my colleague Rance that this is a matter of South Centralism, of course, it is not a matter of South Centralism, it is a problem that is not just a matter of the sea. The problem of Luke Koper, second track, of course in this connection is the Slovenian problem. It is a logistical whole; it is a huge part of the Slovenian economy actually hangs, if I may say so, on this Luka Koper and on this link. So if you want poetry or reality, Luke Koper and the railway that makes it possible is a window into the world. Of course, we also heard such interpretations when some were visiting the minister that they felt that some of the ministry's staff were actually against this second track. I must say, I wouldn't share such an opinion, no matter how it sounds. The fact is, there are two currents inside the SMC. One of the currents is absolutely supporting the development of the second track, and one of them is not. And that's a fact we feel that we know. Let's not talk about statements about the need to build the Trst-Koper railway, not the second track. In short, things are kind of proveable. Of course, the nervousness or unpleasant feeling for me as a coalition Member has created Dr. Gasperšič at the hearing session, and I will not repeat it. Worse yet, I took this as some fact that we could overlook. But when he ordered the OECD study, which was expensive and in which he achieved that he had also supported his position theoretically, but I didn't like it, I have to say, because this study was the one that then rejected all the thinking in terms of work and, secondly, supported a thought that didn't seem right to me. The fact that there was then a plant, we had some discussions in the coalition, including in the wider composition. And if you remember correctly, the last few years have hardly gone by, even with the ministers, that we haven't talked about Luka Koper or the second track. That's a fact. So the problem is real. At least that uncertainty came to me so much more when the port administration was being discussed that something needed to be changed in Luka Koper. The fact is, however we think about the functioning of Luke or the railway track in this connection, the fact is that Luke Koper is doing well. And if something works well, I don't see any reason to trade it for something new, which will be better. But the problems we have in this coalition are certainly that some want to privatize everything, while others we are against privatisation or even selling at all costs. Here we have some tensions that are neither hidden nor must be publicly recognized. Of course I'm against it. Of course, restructuring or organising a new port administration reminds me of privatisation. I can't get rid of this, despite the fact that the Minister has already talked about this today and has somehow rejected this analogy thesis. The fact is, in every law we talk about, I will almost say, during privatisation, whether it remains a social or state-owned area, municipal property, or private. Until you want, which in a few hours, I don't know when it's going to touch, of course, that even a grill can't carry a man to a cemetery alone, but someone who earns it has to do it, and they're going to spend a few hundred kilometers. At each point, we have this conflict, and this conflict is also perfectly clear here. We are not going to put this fight at stake today, but we are pointing out the problems we have. Therefore, I repeat, the public-private partnership is a kind of introduction to me, or very much on the verge that we can slip into privatisation, not to say in the next phase also the sale of the area we are talking about, that is to say the second track, of course in connection with Luka Koper. The Minister somehow did not answer this question, or at least I did not hear that his ministerial colleague said that the public-private partnership would certainly be more expensive than any other option. This, of course, is not encouraging, nor is it for us when we think about these things. Why should something be more expensive if it is not necessarily more expensive? Here are some concerns I have to make publicly. I'm not going to talk about any other problems, because I think that's a lot of what's been done. We in the parliamentary group, when we talked and I finally agreed to this, are waiting for the minister to make a law or to make a proposal where there will be a clear financial structure and a timetable for the construction or construction of a second track. This is in connection with this law, which will have to be adopted. At this point until then, I also support the Minister in his efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Hainz. The word is given by Master Lilliana Kozlovich. Prepare to be Master Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u62	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! Dear Minister, today I will address you as a member of the ruling coalition and, on the other hand, as a Primorka and perhaps also as an Istrian, because Istria does not have a problem with infrastructure alone, it is called railways and roads, but because of its position we have another problem. For example, one of these is drinking water. The fact is, at the very hearing that you've become a minister, we said that we don't need a second track, we've already signed the interpolation for you and the Primors, and we probably wanted to have a maritime parliament at the time, but I think you've explained today why you've changed, and explained that you have this opportunity to change your mind too. But then the pressure on you has already begun, and it is very difficult to gain this mistrust that was created at the time. The Mayor of the Municipality of Koper also told you, just as you told on one committee, that in fact every government has broken its teeth on this project, I am talking about the second track and Luke in particular, and that you will not be either. As far as the proposer is concerned, I think he is legitimately representing the desire that the financial framework be set up as soon as possible. However, all other parliamentary groups here today and political parties are somehow responsible or responsible for everything that has already been done on the second track. Here I might like to present how Slovenians actually decide and how long we decide to come up with one solution. In fact, for the first time, the government began to talk about the second track under Drnovskov's government in 1996. At that time, a study was conducted on the eligibility of increasing the capacity of the Divača-Koper single line. At that time, they also spoke of a two - story track to study. They have come to the conclusion that it is not enough to just modernise, but that a new track must also be built. Interestingly, there were six variants that were defined at the time. The Ministry still appointed a committee in 1996 that defined the primary route, but we know that the karst edge is waterproof or protected in all respects and, of course, the Slovenian Department of Nature Protection has also declared this route inappropriate, meaning that it was necessary to redefine the routes. A new route has been developed, supported by all local communities, and we see that the government for the first time in 2003 – it is said that today we are talking about a building permit – but for the first time in 2003, the government took note of the option of how this route should be carried out and also decided to adopt a decision to draw up a state spatial plan that will include professional foundations and solutions, says optimal solutions. Two years later, let's rediscover a new document. It is the government of Janez Janša and Minister Bozič to adopt a regulation on the national location plan for the second track. So, Coper-Fishing. We're talking about a single track. However, then in 2007, two years later, we again came up with a change under the same government with a proposal to turn from a single one into a two-track. Well, we weren't sure what we wanted back then. Later, this proposal, which was given, was also transmitted to the government. In 2008, it was decided to go on a two-tier track, but that this route should also be linked to Trieste. So these ideas about the link to Trieste do not come from the SMC, I will explain later, but from the time of the government of Janez Janša and Minister Bozič – this decision was adopted in July 2008. Later, the government of Pahor and Minister Vlačič changed the idea of what we wanted, namely, in 2009 a proposal was made, or even a decision was taken, to take place on the division of Divač, the Black Kal section, which is where a two-track is planned, while from Black Kal to Kopra the one-stop track is planned. Why am I saying all this? This is because we see how much time on the one hand and how much money it is for all these projects and all these ideas to be prepared. In 2010, there was once again a change in Italy's withdrawal and in 2010, under the rule of President Pahor and Minister Vlačič, we returned to the starting point in order to build a single railway and return to the time of 2005. So it took us five years to agree to return to the starting point. It is interesting, however, that at this time there were no initiatives, no studies, no pressure from anywhere, as it happened in your case; as soon as you performed, we had such studies by the Faculty of Economics, the pressure from Luka Koper and everyone else. It's understandable, maybe from the beginning I told you. But at the time, there was somehow no such pressure as it started in this government. It is also interesting that during all this period there has not been any discussion of finance, so there has never been a talk about how much it costs. For the first time, the project began to be evaluated. So, somehow, I decide to build a house, and I don't even talk about where I get the money, whether I have it or not. So, I make up my mind about something, but I don't talk about money in parallel. In 2010, the project was estimated at EUR 8.9 million, but was added here, the value was given on the basis of an idea project, while the project at the PGD level was only partially designed, and no part of the PGD project was revised or reviewed, nor were all conditions of consent or all project conditions known. 20 % was taken into account at the time. Well, later, it is true in 2013, but the government of Alenka Bratušek made an assessment on the basis of project budgets, which are part of fully completed and revised PGD projects. As we have heard before, this review has not been carried out and was worth a billion 300, according to the April 2010 price level, at current prices of €400. Before that, a colleague named Anita Kolesh said she was 1. 7. It was said by the Prime Minister that, at such a price, she would not build or build a second track, yet she was in her pocket, and then she was 1. 8. 2014 Regulation on amendments and additions to the DLN Regulation for the second rail line of Divača-Koper was adopted, even though it was already considered that this would not be built at such a price. Again, I wonder how many years it took us, practically 18 years, to even decide, we want a single, double-thirty, tied to Trieste or only to Black Kal or to Copra. It took 18 years! And let me say that at that time, there was no interpellation of the minister, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not one, not that he was stalling. How much money was spent at that time would be interesting to see, because you would probably get interesting data. It's also interesting that we get a building permit, basically that we don't have a financial structure. Again, I'm going to build a house, but I don't have any financial structure. And what's left of Minister Gaspersic and Vlada now that she's won this situation? She needs to decide about the model she's going to finance. So for 18 years we've been talking about what we're going to build, and now in 2 years we need to have a clear financial structure, given the state of the finances we have. I want to be the first to finance this from public funds, I want to be the first to start building this second track. There are also 200 million, and I would like to ask the Minister how this money will be spent, so this is my question: What is this money specifically for? So, either just to prepare projects or whatever, or this will actually be meant for construction. So we don't want this 200 million to go anywhere but to be part of the financial structure. I can also say that; what we are talking about is that this is the best way – I believe it is. I think we have one study done about this Mr. P. Damian, and I am interested in the Minister: do we have another study, or do we already know that it is simply not possible to build it from public money? I remember that you also invited others to come – says in this public-private partnership – both Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways, and probably others who benefit from it. In public-private partnership – but the privatisation of Luke would only remind us that Luke is 33% privately owned, said Luka is not entirely state-owned, but private. Thus, 33% is actually decided by the private, not the whole state. I am also sure that if we put the referendum, as previously said, we would certainly vote that it comes from public funds. But in this state of our treasury, I wonder if we can really finance all these systems and sub-systems that so bloodyly need money. But I think, Minister, it's your job now to state your options and not your interpretation. I think we need to discuss this. We have talked about this to a great extent today, and it has also been on two sides – Mr Weber, and I must also say with Mr Vatovec's stand, as well as your answers have been constructive. I think this debate is necessary. That's who that model is. That's what we're talking about. That's what you need to ensure. Of course, it is also true that only when the project review is carried out, when its value is assessed, will we know what we are actually talking about. Here's my next question. Why might we have waited two years or so long to do this, to make this review? When's that final date when we get it? I'm sure you've set a date in the public contract for how long it should be made. Rumor has it that early in the fall, but I believe it has a date. That's how I'd like this date. I also wonder: In the case of these optimizations, will it be necessary to change the project? Because then it can happen that we're back to square one. And I'd like to ask you this question if you answer me. Let me also say that now that we have a building permit, he is still trying to change what is to be built. As to what Mr Hainz said earlier, I don't know, I might ask these evidence that the SMC is divided and has two currents regarding the development of the port of Koper. Of course I don't know anything about that. As for the Coper-Trieste line, I was present at the meeting with the minister when the Director of Luke Koper and the Mayor of the Municipality of Koper arrived with the idea of starting to build the Coper-Trieste line. Minister and Secretary of State Grebenšek, who were present, said that there is a second priority for the Government, but that if they have money, they do not oppose it. But they didn't give any consent, and they never said that the priority was this track. That's what I can say because I was there. As for the readings on Luke Koper, the minister – this part of the funding – I take it as an integral part. What you proposed about overseers, if you had an influence — you did not. Look, these are things that will probably clear up if criminal charges have been filed – I believe and I hope you're not. But as far as the rest of this is concerned, SDH is the one who's in charge, the minister, you're not competent about this, so I believe you didn't interfere with this, either. But I'm kind of surprised or I can even think of you as positive that in all this story, in all these pressures, I've never heard you put a burden or guilt on anyone else. I believe you have a number of obstacles to the realisation of a matter, but don't even complain. As far as Luke Koper is concerned, perhaps two or one more would be touched, these are local communities that play a very important role in developing both the construction of the second track and Luke. We know that one local community does not allow development without the first pier being extended, another local community does not agree to build a third pier. So, we all want to have Luke Koper, we all want the development of this Luke Koper, but where should we put it? Here I would have another question about this share in the concession contract; namely, that the funds from this are said to be one is the building plot and the other is the means that go to both municipalities. [[…]] What's the point of this money? I looked at this contract and it doesn't say anything. All it says is that this money is allocated annually — at the time it was the Municipality of Koper. In fact, if this is because of environmental degradation, let me say that I am a citizen of Kopra, the center, and that we have one of the worst airs in Koper; as far as dust particles are concerned, we are the most polluted. Is this money meant to improve the environment? Is this designed to improve the infrastructure of the local community with this money? Given that there is a very big problem, we know that there is infrastructure on the coast right or also in Cyprus. I'm so curious: Is it intentional? Because if it's not intentional, then I wonder what, if it's NUSZ I don't want it to be cut off, away from it, but I would want this money to be purposeful. [[…]] That's my suggestion. As far as the second track is concerned, because I'm going to focus on this insight from your interpretation, I'm not going to do any of the other things because they don't apply to the Coast, the Primorje, or the Istrian. What I also said was already in the parliamentary group and later – I am interested in the timeline and this financial structure. The timeline, if I understand correctly, will now be revised by September, an assessment is made of the value of the project. Furthermore, as regards the financial structure, it has been assured that 200 million is already in the budget, but it has been said that the tender from the Juncker Fund should now be in the autumn and would apply for it next year. I wonder if that's true. This means, then, that in 2017, as you say, we would really plant a shovel. So, I'm wondering: Is this actually true and is this just 30% of this share of Juncker's fund or is that a larger share? Because then I also have the question of whether we can give 100 million a year from the budget every year and maybe in the next few years the second track will actually be built from public funds. But anyway, since I'm from that area, I'm a little bit attached to a similar problem, it's road traffic. In fact, we know that we have problems and we have been dealing with the problem of comprehensive regulation of this issue for a long time. Indeed, we have also met with all three mayors of you, the Minister, and all three Members of Parliament for the entire coast in this mandate. We signed a record or agreement containing 16 points, which was 26. 5. 2015, how we will fully address the issue on the coast. I reiterate this because we have also agreed in this agreement on the resolution of the problem of Luke Koper that the Municipality of Koper will resolve the issue of the Bertosian succession, because it is its jurisdiction, also with regard to the entry into the port of Koper – we know that this has not happened because the Municipality of Koper had a lawsuit before the court, and we have also agreed there on how this case will be resolved. But best of all, how are we going to solve the transit transport issue? The deal at the time was to give priority, to the right direction of Koper-Dragon and to stop the project until Lucia. Later in this time, there were very, very different initiatives and variants just by the three mayors who signed this agreement here. So we're back on the same track as the second track. For years and years we will talk about what is right, which is that project that is appropriate, how long we will need, how much money. We know that certain things have already been done to Lucius, that it has already been brought quite far, even determined to Dragonje. Now I'm wondering, what's that project you last talked about? It says: Where will this transit traffic actually be carried out? It would also touch the road in connection with the fire that occurred at the second track, that is, in Podpeč. Let's just see how we actually work with us. In 2009, you signed an agreement with the city council that this road would be — not you, it is said, but the then government — that the road, which is a bottleneck and has also prevented fire vehicles from coming to the location quickly enough, will be signed by the State and the congregation to resolve this problem together. Today is 2016, there have been a whole bunch of variants, there have been six variants, and there is no agreement today that this matter will be settled. It stands because the City of Koper is not accepted by the OPPN for a decent cause. I'm aware, Minister, that you can't handle this traffic without a local community. This way you can't arrange a circle at Winoper, you can't do it in Šmarjah, you can't do it at Mercator if there's no such cooperation. It would only touch the vignette system for which we are Members, all three coastal and other Members, both coalition and opposition, would insist that this part, which was once exempted from the vignette system, would be exempted. However, I must say that I am disappointed to see that in 2008, when this legislation was adopted, and when this section was with the others, it is said that the Ljubljana bypass is a Bazar road station, as well as the Maribor bypass, they were exempted and that the local communities did not take anything to keep it that way. I'm talking about our area. But today you're the first to want this to go away. I wonder where they were in 2008 not to prove what the frequency of traffic is and what the problems are. Especially now that it has been said that a tunnel would be excluded from the wine system, I must also defend the local communities of Skofija and Bertoka, which go through about 20,000 vehicles for a month, as you know, Minister. Above all, the National Community of Sofia is working very hard to make arrangements there. To this end, they have taken the initiative in the world of the local community, 14 measures to calm transport have been taken – calming down because we cannot stop guilt in order to calm down. Well, and then, as a member of Parliament, I referred this to the Ministry, and I also have to thank you for your very active involvement in this. What we have learned – that as a country we have only been able to implement three measures and all others depend on the Municipality of Koper. So, not only did they not then advocate not to introduce these vignettes, but the traffic calming measure does not appear to be a reality. With all this, I just wanted to say how slow we are in making decisions, the same as in this financial project and the model you now have, Minister. I hope and believe that at the end of the day, a way will be adopted which will be the cheapest and also sustainable for the country. In 2017, I would like to see many more shovels planted on the coast, and all those who have to participate would be actively involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Prepare Mr. Daniel Krivec and the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! Interpellations, of course, I do not support because this is a deliberate distortion of reality with a view to bringing political unrest into our space. This is expected from the opposition, so to some extent incorrect. The popular opposition sport interpelling ministers like the current tape is just an attempt to distract attention from the success of this government. It is obvious that the government’s achievements threaten someone and that it is necessary to make such success public by showing problems, even though there are no legitimate facts. In explaining today's interpretation of the Minister of Infrastructure's sins, there was only an accusation that he did not prevent gravity at this and that section of the road or railway. It is in this particular mandate that a positive breakthrough has been made in the infrastructure area, in particular more funding has been provided for roads and railways. Two projects have been completed; reconstruction, electrification and modernisation of the Prague-Hodoš railway line and modernisation of level crossings and implementation of railway crossings. Both were co-financed by cohesion funds amounting to EUR 207 million and represent 109 kilometres of modernised lines on the ground. The project of upgrading the railway section of Slovenska Bistrica–Pragersko, which was also co-financed from this fund, is worth 13.5 million euros. After increased capacity and transport capacity, the driving time will be reduced, maintenance costs will be lower and the conditions for rail interoperability will be met. There is also an end to the railway line of Long Gora-Poljčana, a modernised Divač-Koper railway line and could also be listed. What is most encouraging and at the same time probably the most concerned opponents of our government is that such a positive trend of construction continues. In this mandate, the timely preparation of projects for the new financial perspective ensures a more equitable level of investment in rail infrastructure in the coming years. Critics pressure the media to report again and again on the failure of the second track project call, but do not say that the Ministry has successfully obtained funds for as many as four other CEF projects, a tool for linking Europe in the field of transport and transport. These are: the upgrade of the railway line Poljčane–Slovenia Bistrica and these works start this year; the upgrade of the railway stations Celje and Laško as part of the project of the upgrade of the railway line Zidani Most–Celje, where the works start in a few weeks; the upgrading of the existing Maribor–Šentilj line and the fourth, the development of project documentation for the construction of the railway node in Prague, where the works will start in the following year. A possible comment will be that this is possible in the time of the SMC government, because we have a higher gross social product, more inflows into the budget and so on. But these conditions had to be created, and this is the credit of Prime Minister Cerar's government. And by the way, Mr Vice-President, your border debate has encouraged me to respond because you have commented that we are divided into two fields in the SMC. You will allow me to be more informed about how things are in the SMC; we are not divided, we are for the second track, Primors, Styrians, Prekmurci and Korosci – all. But the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Infrastructure are at the dissection table today. This table is in the eyes of the entire public, reminding me to some extent of Rembrandt's image of the Anatomy Hour. The picture is large, the table is well lit, even the living substance is on it, only that the anatoms or pathologists are not genuine, they are not interested in open intestines, they are looking at the camera, they are good to the audience, they are frenetically suing that the minister did not carry out a huge infrastructure project in a few months and they would have them. With ease, how! We would take it from health care, from education, from pensioners, from public servants; the opposition, in general, if it was learning from Utopians, always has a better solution, but the infrastructure of one country is not a computer game or a leg of the cube to move up and out of the mountains, drill tunnels, lay roads and railways. Infrastructure is a very complex orchestration of needs, desires, opportunities and time. It's funny when the instigators complain that the minister will cut the opening line at the end of the infrastructure project. What's more normal than that? In infrastructure, everything that was possible in real time and with real resources is done and more than in the mandates of previous governments. That's why this interpolation is bad, it has another purpose, it deceives citizens and citizens, and it doesn't bring them any better. But there is also something good about it, it is an introduction to a series of new, just such non-productive interpretations, and it is only one of a number of events that make everyone in Slovenia sick or tired. More and more signs are that people have already overlooked the transparency of such movements and have found out who is actually working for common prosperity and who is only interested in drawing attention to themselves. Today, the Minister of Infrastructure's working day has gone to waste, but tomorrow's Wednesday and the next 100 Wednesday you'll have to work hard. So roll up your sleeves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President. I am a little surprised by the number of statements read today by Members of the Modern Centre Party, with the light exception of colleague Kozlović, who has actually been the only one in these good seven hours in a way that has, in some way, asked questions to the Minister in some way and obviously also knowledge. Now we can only understand everything else as a pierre of dispatches that rumbled into the SMC Group and actually repeat what came from the Ministry of Infrastructure. The fact is, there are open questions, in general, about the financing itself and so on. I think that colleague Weber has also made quite clear what this difference we are talking about here today; hence, the differences between public-private partnership and public funding. The first thing is, I still want to hear some very clear, perhaps short and particularly binding answers. This is: will there be no concessions? It's very simple. If they are: Who, to whom, will be the subject of these concessions? Second: Will there be a concession for the port of Cyprus exclusively Luka Koper, of course, until the concession contract takes place and to the full extent? Thirdly, and this is what is, I think, the most crucial, what is probably now slowly interested in most of those who persist in this Chamber: Can a model of public-private partnership be done in such a way, including related businesses, that it will actually be cheaper and smaller than a classic model, i.e. funding from public funds? Minister, you said there were many different models. Nevertheless, I would add that we do not know any in Europe, but that we do not even know about the construction of the freight line. Here again: Public-private partnership. What does a private investor expect? Of course, a private investor will demand a margin, this is a compensation, while, of course, it will increasingly be credited under market conditions applicable to legal persons and with higher interest rates. Of course, then these tied transactions remain, and this is what concerns the issue of concessions. You also said that on the train at the end of 2014 you had somehow introduced the idea of a public-private partnership to the President of the Administrations of Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper. That ride to Brezovice was kind of informal, as I understand it. I wonder: When was the first and when was the last project world established on Brdo pri Kranj? In particular: Has Luke Koper and the Slovenian Railways ever been formally offered or presented by what model, with what inputs, would these two companies participate in financing the construction of the second track? This is, for the time being, like an intermezzo, because I would like to return the debate away from these apologies by SMC Members to these specific questions that we are trying to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel the Crimson, please, prepare yourselves for the Magus. Bojana Muršič and Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greeting to the Minister and all the members of the Government who are present. Nice greetings to all your colleagues as well! I can't help but start not knowing if I'm at the Minister's hearing, whether I'm in coalition coordination, or if I'm on some round table about future infrastructure projects, but at least I understand that this is some minister's interpretation. I've got to be honest. Otherwise, I believe that it was a good purpose, but the whole thing goes, even with interesting cultural inputs, which are well read, in beautiful manner, but here I see no weight and no particular argument for mere interpretation. I believe that the Minister is not ideal for many things to be done, but usually the interpretation is very concrete and at least one point is very specific to some of the violations which I have found difficult to identify from this debate and from the Minister's response. We can tell him a lot of things, even if we read a coalition contract, there are not many things that have been done, but that would probably apply to all the ministers of this government. From this point of view, interpellation may be justified, but I do not know if it is properly defined. The Coalition Treaty, for example, says that the Minister will also take care of the development of broadband networks, and I have not observed any of this until now. Interestingly, there is nothing in the coalition treaty about energy covered by a minister who is a very important part of this country. But there is talk about measures All in one place – I don't know what is made of it. We can admit that at least the financing of compulsory economic public services, when we talk about road maintenance, is even improving in its mandate. It's so hard for me to read it to him. Some stable funding for this has been introduced. He has adopted a strategy for the development of transport infrastructure, but these strategies have already been full. We have been reading about the second track for a long time, about some projects that should be touched by airports, too. So I don't know if it's really a serious violation. But he resents the subject of railways, of the second track, that the matter should not be pursued more systematically. We are all talking about the problem of the second track and the railway, but the problem is also the electrification of this railway, which I have once warned you about. We are the only island within the European Union that operates on three kilovolts of one-way voltage, and this makes it significantly more expensive to buy all the equipment for rail infrastructure, from locomotives to all other devices, and we still overrun convoys when we move into other rail systems. That's not even what I'm talking about. This part would offend the Minister, given that he has been at the Ministry for years and years and that he knows where the problems are even more crucial, that he may not come with them. This is not least due to the fact that one point in the coalition says 'conforming the organisation of the rail system with the European directives in this area', but also to this technical harmonisation is not so insignificant and would probably save for one second track in the final stage. Then I have a point of integration of public passenger transport. I think that's what he's done now in the final stages. And we can tell him that it's too strong and a little too late, so there's been quite a bit of a problem with the introduction of this system. However, I do not know if this is again for the specific interpolation mentioned here. There's a lot of talk about how to build a second track and now, above all, within the coalition, the vast majority has recipes and I'm really surprised that you're finally not harmonising this in coalition coordination if you all know and anticipate what's more optimal, what's cheaper and so on. I think we really need to cut this thing once in a while. And in this part, I can agree with some of the debaters. But I also resent the minister because sometimes he has a little too long a language and that probably beats him. At the hearing, he was very broad-minded about what he would do, where he would not work. At that time, he stated that the second track was not a priority; the third development axis was not a priority. He was talking about the third belt against Vrhnika, the third belt on the curb, and now, in my opinion, he's coming back a lot with his backpack. I believe it's very difficult to convince the coalition that he didn't really think at the time, but he's serious now when he's talking about the second track and so on. From this point of view, we can probably tell him that he is sometimes too intrusive when a statement is made, not in public, but even for a magnetogram in the National Assembly. There's a lot of things that he's already pulled back, and he's going back to some other starting point. This Markovec case, which is obviously some alibi for someone to be satisfied, will, in my opinion, cause a lot of problems at other sections, and I don't know if it's the most convenient maneuver he'll ever take in defending his function. By tying his function to the construction of the second track or the start of the construction of the second track in the following year, it is in some ways encouraging, but knowing that 2018 is an election is not exactly a bold act as you have marked it. And after two years, when, in fact, on the Infrastructure Committee, ensuring that we will receive this study in the next two months regarding the placement of the second track, I do not resent that, at least with these basic documents, he did not come before the Members. But these are his promises, not that someone is forcing him to do so. With regard to the perceptions in this interpretation of the conduct and suspicions of illegal influence, and so on, I think that this is more a matter of the government, SDH and the owner than the minister himself at the moment. I don't know if this material is properly justified. When we are in the electrification of the Prague-Hodoš railway, we are again faced with the problem of putting into a space that is related to another ministry, but it is also largely in some influential area of the Minister of Infrastructure, because all the key projects have a problem in this story of putting into space; but if we are talking about the fourth development axis where certain tunnels cannot be placed, if we are talking about a third development axis, where individual sections change according to individual influential lobbyes – or local or other ones – when we get to energy, we know that we cannot also place some of the pipelines and so on. I think that there is some greater responsibility on the part of the Minister, that these things should not be harmonised within the government and inter-resortably, and that we will finally come up with projects that allow European funds to be drawn up in the next phase, and in particular allow for some development in this area. I would really like those who have supported the interpretation to state at least more valid arguments, because we are actually expecting them in this debate, because if not, it will in some way be more similar to the Member's questions and to answer the questions of the Members. But you can also mention in the coalition that sometimes, when an initiative comes from the United Left or others from the opposition, you actually support a debate and we talk about how to solve infrastructure and other problems rather than deal with some such interpretations, which are a more pyrian approach. Otherwise, the minister's not guilty of anything, he's still bravely holding on and insisting, so I consider it a good thing for him. I believe, however, that he will also be taught a lesson, that at times he will think things through before he declares it, so that he will not have any further problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. A respected minister, a respected minister, and a government team. Colleagues and colleagues! We've been discussing today's interpretation of the minister for seven hours. I must say that I have spent a lot of time in this Chamber, listening to this debate and indeed, the interpretation relates to the second track, but it seems to me that we are talking only about the second track all the time, but we are forgetting all the other problems we have. Of course, the interpolation has four points, but I think it is necessary to find common problems which are in Slovenia as a whole, but not just the second track. We are all aware that there are many problems in the area of infrastructure. The Minister is also aware of this, because he has presented to us in the Group the problems he has, and I believe that he will make a number of promises that he has made. I believe that we need a comprehensive approach so that some of the open issues we have finally begin to close. In this place, you'll probably ask me where the money is. Of course, money is lacking, but with the proper organization of work, a small amount of money could be used to do much. Allow me to mention at the outset that I will not focus much on the second track to focus on road transport infrastructure, because our roads have been in a really alarming state for several years now and have been calling for renovations. The Minister showed in the discussions a little while ago a graph clearly indicating that during the crisis we were on the verge of falling road infrastructure funds. Thank God, these funds have been growing lately, and we can expect to find solutions and our roads will see a little better light. It is not to be forgotten that the countries that have been far behind us are now ahead of us in the field of road infrastructure on the right. Since I come from the Styrian end, I want to focus on the local problem, namely the bypass in Slovenska Bistrica, which the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica has been planning since 1998. It is essential to ensure safety and to reduce freight traffic going through the center of Slovenska Bistrica, as well as to expand the area of Inpola. Inpol – a number of people do not know – was the sixth largest Slovenian exporter in 2015. What does this mean, the exporter – trucks go through the city center, the city center is failing, which is not good for the infrastructure of the centre. I therefore welcome all the interests of the Ministry to finally begin with the investment of this Western carousel, which will take place in two phases, the Western and the Northern carnivore. Inpol must restore its voltage cable and this investment must be completed by 2017. That is why this investment needs to start in the future budget and end it as soon as possible, or something can happen to us soon, so that we will have problems with Inpol, because its expansion will not be possible, and even transport is not possible elsewhere. Otherwise, it is not part of the interpolation, but it is also necessary to highlight the regional road Ruta-Pesek, especially because today I have received information that if the Municipality of Lovrenc does not start with the construction of sewerage, European funds will be returned. There will be an urgent need to provide overcoating resources, because the centre, the cod core, is in a catastrophic state. There is also a loss of resources for the development of tourism, and I think it is necessary to look also at some remote places, I will say a little in Styria, in those places where we are behind God, because everything does not just happen in the center, even in these places we have very successful companies that want to create new jobs in these places and that is why they need to be helped in this way. These investments have been in the budgets for a long time, but they are being translated from one budget to another. A special problem for me is the Stairway. Lately, as you know, we have witnessed constant accidents, setbacks, and, at the end of the day, renewals. Of course I welcome them, but traffic congestion is impossible, especially because we have many trucks on this highway. That is why the second track is very welcome, but not only between Divina and Kopro, but that this railway track will be updated all the way to Austria or Hungary. So we need a long-term vision in which key transport logistics will, of course, be properly evaluated. By shifting traffic from road to rail, I think environmental costs would be reduced. It is also known that the external costs of rail transport are several times lower than road transport, will be reduced, the burden will be reduced, modernisation will be less necessary, and I think fewer lives will be at risk on this road. That is why, Minister, I expect from you that you will stand up for these remote sites and that we will not come anywhere from one year to the next, but I believe that there is a way where there is will. So Minister, all well on your way. You have my support, because in the Group of Members you have given us some assurances that you will join certain projects, so once again: thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll start where Mrs. Muršič ended up before me. Of course, the will and the path are not enough; the path must be maintained, safe, and, of course, we also need knowledge, clear financial structures and also political decisions. If time allowed me to do this, I could have put down infrastructure problems in Slovenia for three days, but I probably wouldn't have exhausted all the municipalities, about six of all settlements in Slovenia, but of course I won't. Interpelation is such, different, up, down. I'm not going to define what someone is saying, how someone is speaking, I'm just going to say that someone who can't be funny, when they try to be funny, turns out to be -- let's put it mildly -- that's more sad. The problem with these interpellations is that we're kind of under media pressure, and then we're looking at whether or not Peter, Francie, Stef, or anyone will fall politically. Although, of course, I think that the specific Minister of Gasperšič should leave his post. Interpellations should aim at a serious, clear, reasoned debate in Parliament on certain policies. If we touch the infrastructure. A quarter of a century of infrastructure is such a beautiful bowl of marmalade where you like to get your hands wet. This is the problem; some authorities have irrigated more, others less, there have been better times, there have been worse times. People who do this on the criminal side say, you know, that's it, there must be some 10 million euros, then 2,3 million euros will fall. What I'm about to say is that a certain part of the coalition will not be satisfied. The last time I could normally talk to Mir Cerar, he was the day Miro Cerar swore. We met in Parliament, Mr Cerar, colleague Luka Mesec and I. This was when Cerar spoke about project cooperation also with the opposition up and down. I drew his attention to the issue of infrastructure, and I also reminded him that it was a committee because of a rich quarter-century history, which would be good for the opposition to lead, an unspoiled opposition. Miro Cerar then said, "I can't do this, you know who, and I won't give it to them." Of course, he was referring to the smallest coalition party at the moment. This is where we come up with a key problem of interpretation and a key policy issue in Slovenia. Whether in Slovenia there is an extreme range of policy for someone to get to the trough and across the state sector, parastats will first push their 10 people, then 100, 200, into customers with a longer tradition of 500 and then they will cover from this public trough to the detriment of all of us. This was some promise of SMC relatively a bag of surprises about some new and different policies. I'm afraid that didn't happen. I don't want to be personal, but here at the Infrastructure Ministry is the Secretary of State who hides his previous career. He was in the SCT at the time SCT died and that money was moving here and there. From then on, it was a very clear sign to me that the government of Mir Cerar would go in a direction. Then, of course, in the middle of the mandate, there is still a bit of an obvious dilemma, because the maritime part of the Members is moving to the executive branch, I must be honest with you that I will miss colleague Kozlovich because one is rare, if not the only one – now she is absent – who is having an argument, even though we do not always agree with her. Okay, that's an introduction. If we go back to the problem of railways or other rails; the majority is argued on our behalf by colleague Matej Tašner Vatovec said, colleague Weber pointed to some important issue and also some way of funding. Look, there's never so much in rail traffic, I've said that many times before, to externalise costs like some highway cross. In your own words, you can't put that kind of money on the end-user. That's a fact. Another fact is, sometimes it is good to be a pioneer, but on the other hand, do not detect hot water. Through some of the systems that we have here are completely vague, vague, and want to sell a public-private partnership – no one is building it in Europe. Nobody builds this in Europe. Pika! There were some smaller projects with a smaller private share, which colleague Dobovšek warned about, that is a fact. I have before me a report on the privatisation of railways, which I have already shown, in Great Britain, the great train slavery. The key conclusion of this report is that it is actually from public budgets to poorer quality of more money. London City currently has problems when you read English media, especially with a privatized southern railway, where people are late for chess in their own words. Let's stop rediscovering hot water here. And don't be kind of overly misleading, literally insulting. The United Left has never said that it will take this out of the budget, and it will be less for social. This is what you will do with the current mini tax reform and the budget for next year. We have made it very clear what forms of funding we have made clear why they are doing so elsewhere. Now that I've said it, it might surprise someone. Personally, I am in favour of public-private partnerships, but in other areas. I'll tell you one case. Last week, I was in Austria and in a relatively small congregation, they made up their minds whether to build a kindergarten or not. It is relatively expensive for the budget of this congregation. You know what they decided then? Certain parents of children came up with the idea of making two units on a biological farm instead. They set up a fairground, a society, and the congregation went to concession. I'm here for these forms of mixed co-ownership. In this way, even through certain cooperatives, several public services could be organised at a local or regional level where they would be employed co-owners. Not that we have stories with touching Maribor, various procurators and similar stories. All this history of our ease of dealing with infrastructure is hitting us on the head. SMC, you're in power. I admit I've got a suitcase full of hearings for two years now, because all those in front of us, I'll be honest with you, they're shitting. You wanted to get in power! Am I going to listen to this yammering for two more years? I think so! If I wanted to come to the ballet, I'd probably like to come to the ballet like a ballerina. Without crying now, there's no lights in the ballet, up and down. You had to sort things out. I was very confused when we were putting this interpolation into being too narrow, which some have already mentioned. Unfortunately, almost everything in this department is wrong. I'm not gonna say nothing's going on, because certain things are done of course. But it's wrong because of the "beautiful history" for 25 years, and also because it's kind of under-thinking and under-estimated from the lobbies trying to do these things and deal with them somehow. One MP said, "Yes, we've been talking to sixteen congregations." In the meantime, she forgot to congratulate the Styrians and the impostors of the Ptuj field — and I am little too rude. Of course! We have such an organization of territorial division of the country, and this is a description of jobs such as the description of the tasks of ours, that we say something clever here for fifteen hours or maybe something a little less clever. We haven't touched the energy sector at all. Let's go see, Brother Official Gazette, Government makes recommendations, orders how municipalities should write local energy strategies, we should have national strategies through the EC and we still don't have them. Wrong world. There is no money for almost nothing, but now twice through the Law on Budget Implementation you will put a hundred million in a company where we do not really know what is going to happen. The forest forest was very similar. Then you expect the opposition to back it up. I often say that we don't go to the market in our family. It's just some too serious stuff, maybe too human to say it, but that's right. We've operated here with numbers, we haven't just been reading a little bit of an unfortunate, even stylistic, smiles like SMC. If you listen well, the coalition parties are also very critical, both to the station and to the minister. But of course, because you're interested in holding on to the end, you're going to give him another option. My personal opinion is that he doesn't really deserve this other option. The whole species is also a few smaller things. Comrade Rotar from the Maribor bike network, for example, warns – we had a death victim in Beltinci. How long has there been some negotiation to agree there for a few hundred meters so that the excessive agricultural machinery there would not drive, so that people can normally ride on one relatively well-managed cycling spree to Mursko to the checkpoint and so on. Usually the minister brags about it, a little bit of the past work of others, but I'm a number man. Look, Minister, you said there's only one case I'll give you. "we've renovated 600 buildings with energy." At the same time, we do not have a comprehensive energy strategy, we have energy poverty, we do not deal with energy efficiency. Do you know how many buildings there are in Slovenia? One million 161 thousand 966. Where are we? More than half of the buildings are over 40 years old, much older than 50 years old, and somehow they are part of the crossing under this ministry, plus the lady who is somehow sitting next to it. We've highlighted a lot of lobbyist contacts. Well, of course it's normal, it's good to write down, there's probably other lobbyist contacts that haven't been written down. We can now have a legal discussion as to whether it's a privatisation or not. It's strictly not formal, but some concessions, you know, we in some years, when it went a little better, we didn't even know how to think about concessions, let alone a public-private partnership. We used to see it that way, the concessionaire watched it, but, uh, I'm gonna fly in nice, and I'm gonna have marmalade, some congregation, or somewhere else they said they'd get rid of it. Let's be honest, we need to learn to write, monitor, work and, of course, some of the projects that colleague Dobovšek has warned about, and this reminds me a little bit about some of those old systems – you make a commission, you make a consultative body, you open a business, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, two, one, one, one, two, one, one, two, one, one, one, two, one, one, one, one, two, two, two, two, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, By defending this and such a minister, you are essentially defending and advocating the policy that we have been looking at in this society for 25 years. This is a key message for me. This is why it is more problematic than whether someone, a person minister or not, which, of course, is also at a personal level can not be a pretty sign in a personal biography and we should talk about it somehow. I once quoted a study that said that we have bridges in terrible condition, more than half the bridges are so terrible that we almost have to shut them down. It was a research on the state of the infrastructure in Germany. All developed countries, of course, are more complex countries, have more infrastructure, we will always have problems with infrastructure. That is also why infrastructure needs to be looked at in a way that is a little less fragmented and more prudent in dealing with it. We now, of course, will not be populist, it will not be a loving decision, but we will somehow have to consider and accept the infrastructure cent, we do not want to want to maintain the infrastructure, let alone develop. A responsible policy should probably go beyond some narrow obstacles when it tries to deal with different stakeholders and also think a little wider. A while ago, I asked the ministers about Pohorje, but they said that we have nothing on the plan right now, and now we wouldn't be as prominent here as most exploits. But this is such a typical example, we have a beautiful Pohorje lying to us there, we have a whole range of stakeholders, municipalities, and somehow we don't know how to make money out of it, in our own words. It literally hurts because I used to work in tourism. The problem is also, let's face it, the relatively ostensible sector structure of ministries. We should think about it here, too. My personal opinion is that the environment and space and infrastructure should be together in a strong ministry, but with some few ten people who would be waterproof to corruption and other matters. You know, we actually need quality bureaucrats back. And we can go all the way to Owl to look – say, what is now one of the themes that we have on the wallpaper. These are some of the problems we have to deal with, not just a little bit under the media influence, but who's gonna be the bigger man on Twitter, and who's gonna be in front of the camera more than once. Will this gentleman, who may have accidentally stepped into a little too many shoes, be wet or not? One message of this interpolation will be, as has been the case in the quarter of the century: infrastructure in Slovenia is ok and our coalition will continue to do so. It seems to me that this message is much more terrifying than whether a doctor will remain a minister or a doctor will no longer be a minister. Yeah. Second-tier story if I come back to the end. As a young scientist, I went down to Koper, and I did research — I mean, we've been talking about this for 20 years. It would be about time we somehow discussed how to go into this investment to get the least headache. I could also tell the minister that in two years we have not come up with an answer to the question of how TES 6 is going to give us the least headache on the table. You could tell him that past the public invitations – here, a little music, I will start dancing – infrastructure. [[Technical disorders]] Give me time to stop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u73	Wait a minute, we'll see what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u74	Here, great.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u75	Intermezzo's fine, isn't it? Good. Can I interrupt, Dr. Duck, and you'll continue, say, in five minutes? Break five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u76	Colleagues and colleagues, proceed. I apologize for the technical error. Dr. Franz Runczek, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you for saying that again. Whoever did this should ask me next time about my music taste, I'll say Slovenian modern jazz. I'm going more towards the end. Today we have listened: the second track, the government project, from its government, to avoid, to political debates and so on. In any case, we all use the infrastructure more or less, regardless of political obstacles; in short, these are the projects of all of us, including those that go through Slovenia somewhere else, and bent when they stand on the road or along the road. Some other things, look, whatever we're turning, in the end and also in the beginning of some of these projects is a political decision, and this is our work here. Responsible political decisions must be made on the basis of open eyes and ears, awareness of what is happening through plans, thorough discussions with experts, and the interest of local communities, including those that may be affected by this. After all, this is also enshrined in the Constitution, in that part about economic initiatives. And it's not just me that wants to have this kind of debate, but it's the kind of debates that pay for it that people want after 25 years of fishing in mud infrastructures that are very useful for it. And that's what this is all about. And that's why this interpolation is happening. We're talking about the second track, not just the second track. You know, over the next few years, we're supposed to put a few billion in infrastructure. It is also a question of who will build this infrastructure. To be very honest with you, in railways, will Simens, for the most part, do this only, which has a very strong division, whether Slovenian companies and the Slovenian budget will have one of these. I'd stop here because I have to leave some time for the replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word is Andrei Chush. Get ready for Mrs. Marinka Levičar and Master Alexander Kavčič. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I am also one of the co-signers of the interpellation of Minister Peter Gasperšič, an interpretation that was tabled a few weeks ago. In fact, all the parliamentary holidays and a lot of people watching this session on TV screens have been spent thinking about how you are over time, you're barely discussing it today. But that's the way it is, unfortunately, the rules of procedure and nothing. In my opinion, the area of infrastructure is one of the most important pillars in the Republic of Slovenia, and it is precisely this sector that should be the generator of economic development and the progress of Slovenia compared to other countries of Europe. Today, too, somehow as we follow this developmental backlog also in the area of infrastructure, we are rightly concerned. What's going on? Why is it late? Why are some lobbyists so strong that they literally dictate to governments and ruling politicians how politics will take place in this area? It is true, however, that there is great influence and great financial resources in the background. I myself support the interpretation for a number of reasons, as they are intended and presented in the interpretation. So, there are four in the interpolation, I may have been thinking about which side, but it's the goal, not the way. This, of course, is how I support interpolation in its entirety. Of course, it could only touch the second track, infrastructure projects and some new political culture or practices that have started to occur in Slovenia, as discussed by Prime Minister Miro Cerar. So some new standards. I would like to mention, above all, the political pressures of the Minister both in the case of Dars and in the case of Port Koper’s supervisors. Thus, those who did good work were being punished by pressure on those who were doing good. It's some new practice, but I'm sorry for the negative. The next example of why I am also for interpretation is, of course, the second track. Economist Jože P. Damjan said a few days ago: "Minister Gasperšič is stressing statements that are disputed with the truth or only cheap manipulation. The first is his statement that this government will start building the second track of Koper-Divič in this mandate and, among other things, the valuable manipulation that he will give up if this government does not start building a second track. The government decision to set up a 2TKK project company is therefore merely a postponement of the decision to build a second track to the next government. In the meantime, the beneficiaries will cash 6 million euros in a year and a half just for studies. It is a matter of ordinary manipulation, behind which are the greed and ignorance of the President of the Government and the material interests of a handful who know why they do things that happen." A meeting of the SDH Supervisory Board was also held last week, about which there was some talk today. At the time, the annual plan was not confirmed. Of course, that was fixed yesterday. The SDH Supervisory Board is not expected to confirm the company's annual plan due to a lack of funding. Indeed, the budget has been closed since August, but according to the information I have received, the capital is expected to come from Hungary. So I ask you, Mr. Minister: Is it true that capital has come and that, of course, it also comes from Hungary? On the other hand, the establishment of this company is entirely, I will tell you, only on paper to hire some people. I have heard that five people are planning to be employed with a salary of 15 to 20 000 euros, and on the other hand, we have DRI and other infrastructure companies, which are obviously overworked or self-intentioned. As the next event I'd like to point out, I'd like to point out the death threats of the first superintendent, Luke Koper. Then none of the government's moral and ethical politicians took sides, nor did they comment. It is no wonder that young people in this country do not see a perspective; smart, capable people do not want to get involved in or hear about political life. On the other hand, I am convinced that this is even the interest of ruling elites and individuals in the country, as Slovenia has not yet completed the transition in which we are still 25 years old today. The buying of Minister Gasperšič takes place with almost all political forces, which may be fighting in the National Assembly and in front of the cameras, and they are fighting in the background, but they are the best business partners, probably friends. The minister promised the express construction of the second track, promised that the Markovec tunnel would be exempted from the vignette system. This will once again trigger a beach of demands at all ends and places of Slovenia. The airport of Portorož will be expanded and the preferred route of the third development axis in the northern part will be chosen only by one political party. In order to understand each other, of course, I support all infrastructure projects, but in these cases it is only empty promises and misleading. According to other information and sources, some members of certain political parties would even be promised local roads, subcontracts, and some would even be able to build their local roads from the modernisation of the Prague-Hodoš railway line, with the aim of inadvertent use of European Union funds, and the project, which we have said today, is not carried out optimally. Minister Gasperšič, with the projects mentioned above, you have probably bought a majority in the National Assembly today, and ethics has been replaced by trade and morality by government millions. I am also surprised by the passivity of one of the opposition parties. Because a lot of people told me that the minister somehow bought support from them. The last one didn't come forward when the interpolation was announced. They kept silent when it was filed, and today’s neutral position, which was read, is indeed silent. It is unusual for some political parties to think about the whole government's interpretation and, on the other hand, to say how good Minister Gasperšič is. Many people have also warned me that obvious business networks from the opposition are successfully working with the business, government infrastructure network. However, it is also true that the former SDS administration Dars replaced the SDS administration this January under Dr Gasperšič's ministry. That's rarely known. Dearly beloved, once again, it is very funny and incredible to see a flood of interpretations that, in my opinion, have the opposite effect of what is desired. The fact is that, in the case of the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Health, Members and Members should decide on a sound farm, on a logical basis, and should be relieved of their duties prematurely. Backstage games and some small businesses are going to get people killed, and some people are going to get their pockets filled again. What can anyone do here? I will support the interpretation, but I appeal to anyone who may have recognized in this to stop making a fool of themselves and fooling people. Peace, love, bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u80	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Get ready, mags. Alexander Kavčič and Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, the President and you, colleagues and colleagues! I will begin with a comment or observation made by Mrs Violeta Tomić. She said, "Those who don't support the interpretation work for the benefit of capital. But those you support, you work for the people." This seems very burdensome to me, and I certainly do not agree with it, and I can also point out that I am voting against interpretation for the reasons I have heard here today in this Chamber. The reasons given by the proponents, the opposition, have not convinced me, but the promises and arguments made by Dr. Gasperšič have convinced me. Finally, it seems very positive to me that he has taken into account or that he will also consider the comments made by colleague Kozlovič from the SMC Group and also by Mr Weber from SD. In order to explore how this second track could also be built by public means. We also advocate for this in our parliamentary group and, of course, personally. I am pleased that it will be built on the third development axis, that the railways will be built, that without winch transport will be possible through the Markovec tunnel. Finally, the construction of the railway to Kočev, from Ribnica to Kočev, which has been promised for a long time, and I think that people, with everything that has been said today, will be done, and what the Minister promises, will, of course, be followed by the Government that supports it in these efforts, right not to support the interpretation. I would say once again, I really think it is an inappropriate observation made by Mrs Tomic regarding what I said at the outset. Even if it were to be supported by interpretation today, Minister Gasperšič has repeatedly pointed out that the government is behind him, that these are also government projects. I mean, even if a new minister were to come, he should go in the direction that the current government is going, along with Minister Gaspersic. That way, we wouldn't have done anything if we'd replaced him. More or less, it would've been worse. Minister Gasperšič is well aware of all the problems, he has listened to the public, perhaps he should have listened earlier, but now I see that he has listened very much to the public and to the demands of the general public and also to us coalition members, both SD and Desus. I think it's better if we don't support this interpolation. It's personal for these reasons, as I've stated, I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u82	The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič. Prepare Matjaž Hanžek and Mr Igor Zorčič. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I think it is necessary to say once again that the 11 members of this national assembly have signed the interpretation against the work and responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure and have brought it into four sets. Today, we have been discussing these four circuits for eight hours, and we will be discussing them for a few hours. At the same time, I am very surprised that now that we are responding to these four points of the interpretation tabled and when we speak what the Minister has repeatedly stressed, it is obvious that we are wasting our time. I don't know who's wasting time here right now; whether we're answering these questions or just those who have put in an interpolation and for which we have a agenda item that lasts 14 hours and 30 minutes. That is also now likely the question of all those watching us on television. The 4th point of this interpolation speaks of the failure to update and electrify the railway line Prague-Hodoš. The one who says that the modernisation and electrification of this railway line Prague-Hodoš has been unsuccessful, in my opinion, does not know the contents and projects. Five overpasses, 12 undercarriages, 42 km of connecting roads, upgrades of two stations, Cerkovec and Grlava were newly built. What has improved in all this? Traffic safety has improved. That's essential. Traffic safety has improved. As part of the electrification of the railway line, five power stations were built, Ptuj, Ljutomer, Mursko Sobota, Gornji Petrovci and Hodoš, and all 109 kilometres of railway were electrified with the possibility of driving up to 160 kilometres per hour. This does not mean that trains on this section drive 160 kilometers an hour, but this means that they drive up to 160 kilometers an hour. The partial and temporary limits of the electric train or trains on 14 kilometres from 109 of the total line are essentially derived from a completely different project, which is also obvious in this interpretation. This is a high-voltage project by Murska Sobota-Matkovci, and the realisation of this investment was never under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but was in the project or under the responsibility of the power distribution company Maribor. So it's a completely different project that this interpolation has nothing to do with. This is similar to saying that we built a section of the highway, opened it festively and that, and now the interpellation is on the side, because there is no built-up resting place at this highway section. It's completely out of logic. These are two different projects. You're now making it clear that this is a fiasco investment in rail infrastructure. These are two very different projects. However, it should be pointed out that all trains in this area drive at at least the same speed as before with diesel locomotives. So, the problem is only by supplying sufficient power to the power station in the Cat area, which is the subject, as I said, of a separate procedure. The entries in the interpolation, such as the surface design of the project and the unaltered track capacity of the track and that we have an electrified line without electricity, are simply misleading and false, and in essence the proposaler wishes to introduce in an unfair and hurtful manner the unnecessary disturbance between private electricity customers and economic operators, which is also demonstrated by the fact that on 15 June and then on 20 June all traffic in this section has been electrified. Now another fact; however, an intervention against Minister Gasperšić was tabled on 23 June. This means that, in essence, the interpellationers have demonstrated by this very fact that they simply do not examine the facts that are actually being read to the Minister in this interpretation itself. Yes, a certain number of diesel locomotives in this section are being used to test and replace electric locomotives that will fully replace diesel locomotives with a new timetable that will be implemented throughout Europe at the end of this year. Dear Minister, in your reply, you have assured that a new timetable of these locomotives will be introduced by the end of this year and that, even on this track, I say, electricity will be fully electric, and I believe that you will also fulfill or keep the promise, of course I will probably ask the question of why this was not done there in January, February or March, or why the Slovenian Railways are still doing or have not done what they promised. That is why I will not support the interpretation, and I believe that these promises you made in response will also be fulfilled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u84	The word is given by Matjaž Hanžek, to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you, beautiful president. Hello, everyone! To begin with, I have to admit that something will not be wrong; indeed, during the time of this Minister, a lot has been done, but that does not mean that it does not deserve interpretation. This was mainly mentioned by SMC Members, including the Minister, a crowd of small short roads and so on. That there will be no mistake, I very much support and it is wonderful, because any small part that improves is good for people living there, but I am disturbed by something else, not only by such small things, but by the government and the ministry and their work, especially by what it means for social development, for economic development, what it means for our future. And that's what we see mainly with concepts about bigger things. What do I mean by that? This is mainly about some strategic stuff. The government must do more than local roads, which it must also do, but mainly deal with strategic decisions. A year and a half ago, my colleague, Trčko Minister, and I asked a question about nuclear Krška. I remember asking or reminding myself that, without public procurement, 15 million had already gone into various research. I also asked because I was a little burdened by Project TES Block 6, where, when 20 million were paid, it was said, the then Prime Minister said that because we can no longer stop it, because we have already invested 20 million, and here we are also close to this 20 million when it will be quiet, about as TES was blackmailed by things that were done, government or politics then subsequently more or less legalized what we call a kidnapped state. At the time, the minister said that he had no opportunity to influence the company's business; now, at the second stage, it was never a problem. Another problem is that today the minister has confirmed that he persists in the northern part of the third development axis, or the Koroška part of the third development axis, that the highway will go from Braslovč to Braslovč, not Celje, despite all the professional concerns of the local population. And here's what stabbed me. I will list only a few arguments that are against this option and for the option that is already already mainly in use, where the road, where traffic has been going on for centuries and which connects more Koroška and Velenje with Celje, is the route Arja Vas – Velenje. Placement in the space is not legally covered – that is, Šentrupert or Braslovče-Velenje, while the second route is covered. This route, recommended by the Government or as the Minister has said today and will continue, destroys 120 hectares of the best agricultural land, while another consumes more than 13 hectares of land. The price of the investment from Braslovč or Šentrupert to Velenje is 240 million without VAT, the calculations for Arja village are about 100 million without VAT. So we're down to 150 million more expensive. In the first variant, F22 is called, will be demolished 100 houses, almost 100 houses, while in the second variant, cheaper, only a few – 9 buildings will be destroyed. That's the thing that bothers me. We'd rather destroy a hundred acres of land than 10, 15 acres of the best agricultural area. It's anti-environmental. We destroy at least five times as many homes as we do the second — antisocial. Not to mention the cultural landscape, the destroyed water resources and, of course, what appears most frequently, the finances; we prefer to go 150% higher than in the cheaper ones. That's why I'm going to support the interpolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u86	Before the others, a representative of the proposer, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thanks again. Just a few responses to the previous discussions. Collegiate Levičar said in a way that the Minister's arguments today convinced her, and in particular responded to what colleague Weber and colleague Kozlovic had pointed out. I have not heard these responses, nor at all the questions of colleague Kozlovich. I would say, however, that given that he trusts and agrees to these assurances that he has received, he would only point out yesterday's article in Del Boris Šuligo, where he indicates, in fact, some assurances or forecasts he made during his term of office, Minister Gasperšič. On 8 December 2014, in Brussels, "The second track is ripe for a very rapid continuation of construction activities in 2016, if the financial structure is to drink water of course". 4 May 2015 for Primorske novice, "... if the private partner is chosen by the end of 2016, if European funds are allocated, then all conditions will be met for us to plant a shovel at the end of 2016". 11 February 2016 in the Saturday Annex, "We are working to ensure that the conditions for the start of the construction of the second track are met in 2017". 28 March 2016 for TV Slovenia, "I expect to start at the end of 2017". On 1 April 2016, following the issuance of the building permit, "I expect that the preparatory work on the route to the level of the road, the preparation of deposits, the movement of municipal waters will start this year", that is 2016. 14 September 2016 – this is the last – "If I fail to start construction in 2017, I will resign myself". I wouldn't put that trust in me. As for the claim of colleague Kavčič; everything he said about electrification on the Prague-Hodoš track actually speaks in favour of interpretation. In particular, he stated three things: trains do not drive at the maximum speed, there are restrictions on one section and there is also a shortage of power on this section. And this, let's stress, for the 450 million euros that have been spent on this update, for driving, I quote, at least at the same rate. I think that's something that suggests how badly this project was prepared, even though then the matter improved. It should also be pointed out that there are no two projects. Now this appears to be the responsibility of the minister for the renovation of the tracks and it was successful, but the minister is not responsible for the renovation of the power lines and the electricity network, because it was something that was entrusted to Elektro Maribor. The Minister covers both infrastructure and energy and so on. In short, this project should be seen as a whole, not least the electrification of this part of the line or the modernisation of this line was a comprehensive project and should also be taken as such and, of course, the Minister has the responsibility to carry out such a project. That is why the mistake is also the comparison that Kavčič gave — that is, the railway and the highway. I can take the highway, even if there's no station in between. I mean, I don't have a problem with that. The fact is, however, that the electric locomotive is a little more difficult to drive if it does not have adequate power supply and adequate infrastructure along the way. That's how I think we need to know a little bit about what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u88	Mr Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, now holds the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you, President. I too would like to respond again to some of the last discussions, because there have been quite a few questions directly addressed to me. And I'd like to clarify these things. There were quite a few specific questions on the part of Ambassador Lili Kozlovich. I hope she's listening now because she's not in the hall right now, but I'm going to go through her questions. Thus, it was a question of how this 200 million capital injection will be spent by the Republic of Slovenia in this company 2TKK. Here let me explain that this is a capital injection that will be deliberately spent on investment in the second indent. In short, for no other purpose or purpose will this money be spent. It is only envisaged that €100 million of this year's contribution will be earmarked for the execution of preparatory works. That's what I've been predicting, and I've been promising. In short, this part will be able to be implemented by 2TKK with these funds in its own name and for its own account, while all the remaining money will wait for the entire financial structure to be completed when it is activated and when 2TKK, in its role as an investor, makes an investment for the entire second track. In short, this is the purpose of this capital injection by the State. Let me answer Mr Couch, who asked where this capital came from – whether it came from Hungary or not – all of these are the funds provided in the Slovenian budget in balance sheet B. It was also a question from Ambassador Kozlovich why it has been two years for us to come to this review. Let me say that we are honest about this review. Indeed, this review was already under the previous mandate of the previous government in the time of Minister Omrel, but this review did not come to fruition. [[…]] They have prepared baselines for the project task, but then we have completed this project task in 2015, in cooperation with the European Commission and the European Investment Bank, in order to reflect and include in fact all the requirements to be met in this review. Thus, in autumn 2016 we had only documentation for this procurement prepared. The contract was then published in January of this year. However, complaints were followed by various tenderers, which were subsequently rejected by the State Audit Commission, so that on 30 June a contract with the selected contractor could be concluded. Since the deadline for producing this review is 3 months, we expect a proposal, a draft final report on 30 September, so end September, end of this month. There will, of course, be a review, a submission of any comments that the manufacturer will then have to take into account or respond to these comments, so that, somewhere in the first half of October, I also count on the results of this review to be made public. The question was also whether any changes would require any modification of the project and the associated project documentation. Here I should say that, of course, in this context, these possible optimizations and rationalisations are being examined by changes that do not mean that any changes to the route should be made in any way. Thus, the very course of the second track, which is placed, remains unchanged, so that there can be no change in this regard. However, these possible changes, which are being studied, are more technical in nature. So, what's at this project speed, whether it's 100 or it's 100 kilometers away, or it's 100 kilometers down to 100 kilometers. What is involved in the decision on passenger transport; whether it makes sense for passenger traffic — given that it really represents a smaller part — to include it on this track or whether it might make sense to leave it on the existing track. This is also related to the degree of security, rescue, evacuation and related to what should or could be done with these other measures. Then we touch these evacuation or rescue tunnels here. In short, these matters are being examined and, as long as it is found that any technical change is necessary here, the adaptation of the project is necessary, I am counting that this can then be regulated in the context of the smaller adaptation of the project technical documentation itself, so that these matters should then be quickly done. But, as it is said, nothing so crucial that would require any major changes is anticipated. The question was also about the purpose of the concession received by both local communities – we are talking about the concession of Luke Koper. We know that in accordance with the concession contract concluded with Luka Koper, the Municipality of Koper and the municipality of Ankara receive half the concession fee paid by Luka Koper. In short, half this duty remains for the country, half goes to both municipalities, and this division is then almost half-and-half between Koper and Ankaran. This remuneration was not committed in any way to be intended, but at the time when the contract was concluded, this was in 2008, I suppose it was meant that this concession fee was intended to be a factor such as that of Luka Koper in that local environment, more acceptable in that area. We already know such solutions elsewhere, where such large infrastructure energy facilities are placed in space, so that I assume that this decision was based, in fact, on the fact that Luka Koper, which is important to say, is a disturbance in the space; in particular in the vicinity of the urban environment or the tourist environment, may be disruptive. This application can then mitigate the possibility that the acceptability of such an infrastructure facility is improved. It was also a question of when we would expect to apply for calls for European funds and for the funds of the so-called Juncker Fund. We expect the European Commission to publish the following calls for co-financing of infrastructure facilities in October. We will examine these calls more precisely, not yet fully specified, or for what purpose, the extent to which these calls will be addressed. Thus, when these calls are published, we will examine these matters carefully and accordingly decide which calls and how we will apply. However, it is announced that a call is expected that could be very suitable for a project such as our second track. Indeed, this call is expected to allow for a combination of both the non-refundable cohesion funds and the funds of this so-called Juncker Fund. So much attention will be paid to this call and it is expected that this call will then be open for application after the Commission's current announcements most of the following year. With all these activities carried out through 2TKK, we will speed up all these final preparations to apply for the invitation to tender, so that I count that there will then be no dilemma and doubts as to whether our project is mature or appropriate. With regard to transport in the coast – we resolve these matters intensively, there have been a number of meetings with representatives of local communities, in particular these three coastal municipalities. These things, we have been discussing them intensely since last year, even this year. And with regard to the key projects, the installation or implementation of these two fast roads, which are planned on the coast, is one fast road from Kopra via Šmarje to Draganje, which is designed in particular to resolve this transitive and also this main tourist flow, while this second leg, which runs through the Municipality of Koper itself, is said to be more along the coast, now with this new tunnel Markovec and further past Izola and towards Lucija, and this part is intended to resolve the traffic connection of this some of the coastal communities and has some other purpose. In the meantime, there was also an idea or initiative to make a quick road instead of these two fast roads on the coast that would somehow link both of them. So, in this first part we would travel through this, so to speak, coastal branches and then here at the tunnel Markovec somehow with a new tunnel we would jump onto this transit branch, which then connects to the border crossing of Dragoj. We will also do so, and it is agreed that we will include it in the hearing. I believe that the Ministry of Environment and Space is expected briefly to address this State Spatial Road Plan from Kopra to Dragonja, where we expect that, in addition to their comments on what is now being proposed to place space, comments and wishes will also be made to look at the possibility of implementation or placement of this alternative arm. This way these matters will continue to be checked, and in any event the mayors of these local municipalities have expressed a desire, as well as by the other inhabitants of the coast, to express the desire and expectation that the speedy road itself from Jagodje to Lucija, and thus other measures towards the Sečovlje border crossing will not continue or that the construction will be timed so that this road will not be completed before the link to the Dragoz border crossing will be arranged, which will, as it is said, regulate this transit traffic. These are the agreements that will be respected at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Then there were further questions about the railing in Podpeta, which we know is also important in order to make it easier in the future to transport with, say, fire vehicles – this has now proved to be the case in this intervention, with this last fire on the karst edge. In short, these things are, we know them, we are dealing with them, but for this concrete project of this shell, spatial placement will still need to be arranged. It is envisaged that the Municipality of Koper will provide this with a municipal spatial plan and later with the OPPPN, and, of course, the activities will continue in the Directorate to prepare the project documentation and then the implementation. However, the investment is estimated at around EUR 20 million, so this is a very demanding facility. We were also familiar with the measures in the Škofias and Bertoks. I am sure that, in cooperation with the local community, we will also find some appropriate solutions to limit this problem, which the locals of these local communities are facing, especially in the summer season, when in fact many tourists are trying to avoid using a fast road and are looking for their distillations on these local roads or so on the streets. Then there were also questions by Mr Vatovec, if I did not answer what would happen to the concessions in Luka Koper. I have made it very clear, but I will say again, I said that if and I want it to happen and I will try to do so, both key companies that will benefit most from this project, namely Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways, will have no need to intervene in any way in any concessional relationship in Luka Koper in order to talk or seek any kind of privatisation and so on. In short, I assure you this once again: we want this cooperation and to find the most appropriate solution, together with these two companies, to close this financial structure in a way that will make the investment feasible, as we say next year, and that will also allow for further development and prospects for both companies. Member Bojana Muršič also raised certain questions about other projects. Here I would only explain briefly about the bypass of Slovenska Bistrica. Here are the matters that are taking place intensively with the municipality, between the municipality and the Directorate, an agreement has been concluded for this project, so that operationally – this was concluded at the end of August – there is now a buy-in and activity in the production of project documentation. The funds are provided and the call for construction is foreseen in the second half of the following year and it is envisaged that the construction would then be carried out in 2018. With regard to the road Ruta – Pesek near Lovrenc under Pohorje, I also have information from the Directorate that the beginning of the reconstruction will be possible in the middle of 2017. About the second track, but this time not between Divina and Kopro, but between Maribor and Šentilje. This upgrade is also, of course, in the plans. The first, of course, is the modernisation of this existing track on this section, and the construction of the second track depends also on the decision on the Austrian side, because there is also a single link on the Austrian side from Gradac to the border. Together this will have to be coordinated, and in this case this project will also be upgraded, and European funds can also be drawn up for this. It has also been mentioned that it wants as many projects to be distributed across Slovenia as possible. Here I can show you in such a picture where all investments in road infrastructure are made in 2016 and 2017 after Slovenia. In short, all these points indicate where road projects are being implemented. I mentioned earlier that there would be 334 of them, and that's how they're going to be deployed. So I think it is clear that all of Slovenia is really pissed off with these activities. I could tell Mr. Duck my shoes are fine. They're not too big. Mr Čuš also had a number of questions, in particular he suggested that I was connected to the lobby, that I was buying the opposition's favor, and that even with the opposition would obviously be very intensely connected at the time of the intervention, because a certain part of the opposition did not want to support this interpretation. Apparently, I don't know, a part of the opposition felt that the interpolation wasn't well-founded and obviously he didn't want any more work to do with it. In short, all these hints that I've been buying any kind of affection for anyone, I'm firmly denying it here. I don't know, I understood it as if it even connected me to those allegations made by the first superintendent that someone threatened to kill her. That's the most decisive thing I've ever denied. The lady, as she said, filed a criminal complaint. I hope it clears up there and clears up who threatened to do that. As for the question of where the capital came from for this capital injection, I have already explained. However, I can also say that, with Hungary, discussions are still under way on possible cooperation in the implementation of this investment. In short, it is also possible here for Hungary to actively engage with the capital injection. On their side there are analyses of the extent to which they would be willing to participate in this project. Mr Hanžek also pointed out this problem of placing the third development axis from the Styria motorway towards Velenje. In this regard, I can only say that I would like this route to take place as soon as possible. Of course, I trust the profession to respond to all the dilemmas involved. I am counting on the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is responsible for this placement process, including all the cases and dilemmas that have been raised, to respond accordingly. That's what I'd have for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u90	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u91	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I find that one of the three interpretations ahead of us is that there are two of them that are related to the interpretation or, say, some of the influences of some of the capital lobbyes, this is the interpretation in the infrastructure we have today and the interpretation in the field of the health sector. But we have a third, which is, let's say, more ideological in nature. When I mentioned that we are dealing with some of the spheres of interest that circle the circle of capital in this interpretation, I would first return the ball to the United Left, from which comes the most signatories of this interpolation. Today we've heard a lot of certain deceptions, and I might be able to set up a mirror for you to ask yourself in whose interest you're actually representing this interpolation. The second track, and the second track, is the red thread of this interpolation, only revolves around funding. And the claim that the minister is the layman of capital – please! But you're advocating public funding, it's depressed. Then I wonder whose laziness you are, you know, because if the second track is to be built, then someone will certainly earn it. Nobody's gonna do it for free. Construction companies, logistics, Luka Koper, because it's a pity that you're hiding that the second track is being built for the purpose of some development, economic development, and thus for making some profits. [[…]] That's why I don't understand some of the explanations that some multinationals are waiting for. Because these multinationals are already in Luka Koper, and they want, as the economists say, to continue their business and to a greater extent. And now say you have some other agenda, and the ministry has no basis. In our parliamentary group, I don't believe I know anyone who'd be the kind who'd be for the second track not to be built. The problem is, as has been said many times before, in financing and in the fact that Slovenia cannot be liable for this billion and a half because of fiscal constraints, or for this price, as far as construction costs are concerned. And if it can't be done with what's left of us, than trying to find some other source of capital. You've heard, and you're also reading to the minister that this other source is more expensive and I don't know what. Yeah, look, it's probably true, but we don't know how much. You don't know either. You are now saying that it is twice as expensive and at the same time clear to the Minister that it does not have a financial structure. But you have it, a financial construct to know it's twice as expensive!? You don't! You're talking in your head. So either I say search, the solution to funding by looking for a public-private partnership is the result of the situation we are in. I would also like to make a cheap commitment, if it is not a problem, to support such a law, I know that, even though you say many times how many laws you have tabled, there has not yet been such a law to process it, nor has it ever been proposed how to finance it, but they are always only, or the minister is only a shared critic, as it should not be. Dr. Jozet P. Damian's study mentioned a lot. You said yourself, in this study it says that one of the options for financing the second track is for Dars to be in charge. That's true, but I'm going to say that this result of this study to put Dars under pressure to finance the second track, I see it as some kind of emergency exit. So, the lack of some other resources we're going to be in debt to Dars, even though we've heard the obvious today, but why is there no third development axis that the implementation of the third development axis has been transferred to Dars and similar findings. In short, if Dars is now in charge of the second track, then of course there will be no third development axis, and perhaps other projects that Dars is carrying out after some of its establishment. In view of the fact that you are colleagues from the United Left, I will say, representatives of the interest already mentioned today, it is the state's duty to have taxpayers in charge of this credit for the construction of the second track, that Luka Koper be left alone because they will do so and so on. But I think Luke Koper has to be a part of this. Now that it's all right and all right, we've found out in the last few months that it's not. I'm surprised you haven't responded to any of the alleged violations of workers' rights. You often have a full mouth of workers' rights, and in this case you have been completely silent. A lot of the media have been writing about workers there, I'll say, with relatively low education, which has salaries, I don't know, district judges, and on the other hand, hired workers who have less than minimum wages. There was no reaction to this on your part, while the government did not last react, and I have a feeling that there is more obedience for the workers on our side. I'm also disturbed by these kind of interpretations in style, we're for Luka Koper, but you're, I don't know, either Ljubljana or the center, but you're against it. We're all for Luca Koper! And who would be in the interest of being against Luka Koper? Please! Who in their right mind?Oh, my God! However, we differ in how to reach certain conditions, that this society will develop most and that it will benefit both shareholders and workers and the state. But all of this, given the limitations we've been given. There was a lot of talk today about privatisation. I don't know, fix me, I read a little while ago about the great results of some companies, I'm sorry that they sold them, about Fructal, about Radenski, the Argeta pate they sold, they sold them all when they didn't own it, and now they don't get any results. That way, you won't scare me with privatisation. The problem of privatisation is not privatisation itself, but that companies were sold at a price. I don't mind privatizing if the company is sold so that we all have some of it. But if it's sold below the price, then it's fine. Just that, this interpolation doesn't show that there's some kind of privatisation at a price. That theory about concession and privatisation being the same, it's already twisted out of the vine. Public-private partnership – this is what I have identified. Maybe it's not my favorite or my most intimate choice. I've heard from my colleague Duck, too, I know that case from England, but look, now to compare the English case and this case, I don't know if it's the most appropriate, because here we're talking about our case, it's strategic, it's strategic, it's strategic, it's strategic, it's the position that this position is carrying the profits. But in England, I don't know if that was the case. I don't know if it was passenger traffic or freight. So now, say that the Ministry's initiative to study and essentially to go to a public-private partnership project in all circumstances, there can be nothing wrong with it, unless we say that we will not be doing this project now and we will be doing it in 15 years. But you said you didn't like it because the Minister said that in the hearing. At the time, the Minister also had reservations about the section Drazenci-Gruškovje, and today we see that it is being built; so projects on which he may have had reservations there are being built. See, even all these acts, which have been described several times in relation to the second track today, show that the matter is not standing and that this interpretation is merely an attempt to bring that heated atmosphere from before parliamentary holidays here. But I think these are such important issues that they are not solved by interpretations, that they are solved by more proposals, including proposals for laws or other conclusions. How else can he get rid of it if not like the matter is being handled by the Ministry? It follows that I will not support this interpretation, of course, but I am not sure that this debate has answered what is better than what the Minister proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u92	As a proponent or procedural? Proposer. Smart. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u93	My friend Zorčič, of course, performed in his style. Now we're comparing the interpretations. The SDS interprets ministers primarily as an attack on public goods, an attack on public education, an attack on public health mainly because she wants or at least announced that she wants to abolish the medical concession. In the United Left, we have no problem with this, and that is why we do not support those interpretations. On the contrary, we are interpelling Minister Gasperšić because he wants to grant concessions, because it is with these concessions, although he is now escaping in some way, but we are still coming to that point, that he is trying to do exactly what is now in public ownership, which is public infrastructure and public infrastructure management, to give into private hands. As far as multinationals are concerned, they're already in Luka Koper. Multinationals are now trading, but that's not enough for them. They just want concessions to expand their business. Public-private partnership. I'm not talking about it because I'm working at night, before I go to bed, some calculations, because I'm not qualified for it, but we're relying on the studies prepared by the three university professors of economics. It should be noted that these studies are comparable. The study commissioned by the Ministry, which spent 160,000 euros, is a study that proposes a model; and this is it. The other studies, the first commissioned by Luka Koper, I think it is worth EUR 10 000, and the second one commissioned by the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, both take at least a comparative analysis; what public funding means, what financing through a public-private partnership means. If we change these numbers according to what the real value of the project will be, the final fact remains the same; in short, the public-private partnership will be more expensive. And we're not talking about 1.4 billion loans, we're talking about significantly less. We have heard that 200 million are already in the budget reserved for this project, something is counting on European funds, although I am a little skeptical here. So if we go to some way of calculating what is already guaranteed and what is at least roughly planned through European funds, we are, say, half a billion credits. This is how you deceive yourself when you say that the state will hire a $1.4 billion loan. This is the value of the project or construction, not the amount of credit. As for the workers — and I think that the worst deception or accusation you wanted — is here — we were not silent in the United Left. For the first time, we were not in 2011 when workers working for the so-called IPS resisted. Then we supported them and supported their efforts or condemned the exploitation of workers in these IPS events in Luka. This was communicated in our statement to the public on 5 July 2016 and we also recorded that in August 2011 IPS workers rose to protest; they were not supported by the Pahor government, they were not supported by the right opposition, they were not supported by Siol or Finance, they were supported by the crane union, we supported by activists. The current MP, Miha Kordish, has already correctly identified what the problem is and who benefits from the situation. I quote: "From this profit are all involved, except the workers themselves. Luke's board can boast of working efficiency, and parasitic subcontractors collect cream, and the state's even twice fits – as the majority owner draws hyperprofits, and statistics look nice." End of quote. At the same time, I think it's just some additional hypocrisy to tell us that we've been quiet in this case. I would only like to remind you of the statement made by Mr Cerar on 3 July 2016, "The ultimate workers of the government and others are unacceptable. I will not allow workers to run state-owned companies and even less to run a country." In the country where we have co-governance of workers in the Constitution and, of course, in a country that is considered a democracy where citizens are involved in public affairs, including those who work. Thus I would not be overly controversial about the rights of workers on your part, even if your president or your party's president is capable of making such a statement and that this government is also at least partly illegally exploiting the labour force in black, we have seen in cleaning services and so on. So, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u94	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! If we continue to talk, talk and debate deeply about state-owned enterprises, about state-owned property, about the state economy, then I fear that this country will not live to see its golden jubilee. Since some of you have been talking about time, one of the things you've been spending, one of the things you don't know about, let me also continue the debate on time. Very briefly, if we are talking about time, then this moment must be said that this coalition and this government have only 13 months of effective time to carry out reforms or start some important projects that it has promised. 13 months, everyone can only calculate it and find out why I got this number, considering that if the elections are regular, they will probably be in May 2018. I agree with one gentleman who said that this government is not set to make reforms, that this government is set up to rule in a relatively favourable period when the economy is responsible for economic growth and so on. But let us leave this debate now, which will not bring added value to our citizens. Mr Minister, you know that New Slovenia - Christian Democrats we have not signed this interpretation, I think everyone understands why not. The fact is that we are not voting on this document, but we are voting on a decision where the Minister is dismissed, and I am very frank with you because I always like to play open cards to vote in favour of your resolution. To relieve you. I had a chance a while ago, and I can also say the honor of having a very thorough conversation, and I know you've got a lot on your plate. Why am I voting for your discharge, Mr. Secretary? Because the coalition is not behind you, it is not behind you. Because one said, yes, the minister promised that there would be no concessions, that there would be no privatisation and so on, and that is enough for us. See, when it comes to projects such as the second track, billions, billions and half, then here all coalition partners should give the minister a written commitment to support him on his way to the end of 2017, when the first shovel will be planted no later than 31 December. Above all, what we don't have today is for the finance minister to stand here and say, "Yes, Comrade Gaspersich, I will stand by you. And, of course, the President of the Government and the financial structure will also be closed." These are some relevant debates. Now we're all leaving the minister alone. I'm sorry! And he said himself, if we don't start construction by the end of 2017, I will go. Yes, that's when the term of office ended because I was talking about an effective time. The second track – because now the main debate is the second track – we must not look at the second track, at least for my understanding, not as an independent project. The logical whole is Luka Koper and the second track. It's an organism that works together. And of course you don't have to be, I don't need to be a professor of economics at the university, I can calculate myself with my computer that if I invest only in the second track without having any influence without being able to recapitalize Luca Koper, I get the money refunded in a hundred years. After the most optimistic calculation, I will not live a hundred and fifty years. Then why would I invest? There will be no private investor who would only invest in the second quarter of a thousand euros. He won't be here! Public-private partnership – we talked about this a lot, studied in the 2004-2008 mandate, when we also adopted this law. Well, if we are already in that 2004-2008 mandate and with the railways, let me first thank all those who have praised Prekmurce and Prleka for accepting the Prague-Hodoš route or reconstruction. That's right. Railways, as well as roads, are built with money. That's the problem. If we want to modernise our transport infrastructure today – Mr Minister is most invited here to say how many billions we need in a given time period, say in five years. In 2005, Minister Andrej Bajuk said that at the beginning of our mandate at that time, he understood very well what the modernisation of the railway network meant. Yes, for this pay phone he brought the Law on Guarantee for the Modernization of the Prague-Hodoš Line. 99.6 billion Slovenian tolars were a difficult bonding law. He was really heavy. I am pleased to have been able to be with the current Prime Minister and with the current Minister of Infrastructure at the opening of this great project. EUR 465 million for the reconstruction of the Prague-Hodoš railway, 207 million from European funds. The biggest cohesion project! Every honor has been given to all who have worked on this project since then, since the law of guarantee. We haven't talked about this much, except it's not finished yet. And it got complicated in a micro bureaucrat matter — the remote control. There's not enough power! Minister, there's still more than half of the diesel locomotives. I've been talking to some railroad guys. I hope everyone can count. There is not only a project that runs there with electric locomotives. We're precocious, but we're quiet. We're just being quiet. The fact is, here you will have to go to the government – not just you, and also your colleague, Minister Irena Majcen – to make sure that you do everything you can to keep the construction going. Someone has adopted a state remote location plan, while the legal construction of a micro clinic, a private clinic, has not been written. And today there is a pillar, which is perhaps 40 meters, 19 meters from this private clinic, where, by the way, there is a gynecological infirmary. Let's take him down, Dr. Ducky, and we'll go to jail! And now nothing happens. And all over the world, they're doing remotes, they're putting long-range cables into the ground. There should be a few hundred metres of remote cable put in the ground and the matter resolved. That's amazing! You can't move one bureaucrat to find a solution — because we said that some solutions needed to be made here. One great case of private medical practice, and I don't know, they're probably gonna move out. I don't know. It's all standing and standing electric locomotives and so on. They don't point a finger at the Minister of Infrastructure here. That's the problem with this government and the investor. Who owns this investor? It wasn't me! Madam colleague Liljana Kozlovich said very frankly how someone was meeting and so on. Mr. Minister, I also ask you that when she is Secretary-General of the Government, she will probably be concerned that someone will ever meet the mayors of Ormož, Hajdine, Markovtsev, Gorišnica, Zavrča, the Municipality of Ptuj. Why? Because 15 years have already been under way and, of course, the construction of the fast road Ormož-Hajdin has not yet begun. 15 years! Is that normal? It's not normal. And Mrs Kozlovich, write a note to make sure that you have the minister, and perhaps you will send someone else to these municipalities as soon as possible with these mayors, who will now take some initiative and so on. However, I must thank you, Mr Minister, that you are actually the first minister to have actually launched an action to address the problem of the train path Odanci-Beltinci-Murska Sobota. Unfortunately, one life had to be extinguished. Tractor tracks, which were built 15-20 years ago, are not made, do not have the capacity for modern agricultural machinery, because tractors are wider than tractor tracks, on which not only tractors but also bikers, such as this unfortunate deceased, are also pedestrians and so on. Of course, it is not yet the final solution, the talks are ongoing with the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate. My request addressed to you to accept these mayors, however, is still open and I believe you will. One more solution. If there are five landowners who cannot get off the road to their parcels, then give authority to the congregations to issue certain permits to these five owners so that the police will not punish them. It's very simple. That's right. We talk a lot about Luke Copper. Luka Koper is a successful company. I also want to talk about some other successful company. Not so much, because then we will only talk about businesses, but of course we also have other questions. But SDH said that Luke Koper's business plan for 2016-2020 was too ambitious. This is where I light the red light. Although I do not believe and do not absolutely trust the Slovenian state holding company, the business plan must be ambitious. If it's a state company, so much more. The port of Koper created 137 million Euros of transport last year, creating 23.7 million net profits in the first six months. About a thousand employees. What about a private company, a private company? A private Slovenian multinational? Like, Akrapovich. A company established 25 years ago, around 900 employees, last year 78 million turnover, this year in the first half of 10 and a half million net profits. So half of Luke Copper. But we don't talk about Akrapovich much here. What they do, they work, they work, they create, they develop. The country will sometimes give them a higher tax than it will now happen again soon. And the state: "Hop, Akrapovich!" If you pay – what they did – 120% of the average salary to their workers, who you say are your biggest capital, then the state says, Hop, Akrapovich!, to me as much as the workers. And that's fair, and that's moral? Shame. For a company like this that's a world star? We should applaud him every day at the beginning of the session here. The third development axis — I don't know if this story will ever end. It's like he's not in the right mood. And I believe in the minister here – there is no money. And how are we gonna find money for all these infrastructure projects? Yes, also 330 million, according to the ministry experts who know something about broadband networks, who know that you wrote on the 17th page of the coalition agreement that you will strive to build broadband networks in areas where there is no commercial interest. 330 Million — Where Is It? Are we going to find this somewhere? Is this going to be private capital? I don't know if there's any commercial interest – there won't be. He won't be here. I don't want to talk about Goričke again and so on and so forth, where they don't have a mobile signal like they want. In this context, you actually come to some conclusion that we need a new transport strategy, which will also include this financial part, how to finance or co-finance individual infrastructure projects. We will not be able to from the state budget, the state budget will not be able to finance these demanding projects, which are permanent. They're a station. And yes, Mrs. Simona Kustec Lipicer has informed us that we are not in the hall. I've been in the hall a lot longer than she has. But it's true that I have phones and so on and I'm called by a gentleman who says, "Ask the Minister why there's a railway approach to the Throat, not the Crossmen." That there was a civil initiative to gather citizens and so on and that the relationship between road traffic where the approach is, and where it should be, that ratio is 1:90, said this gentleman. I am, of course, a representative of the people here, and I must address this question to you, Mr Minister. Now that all this stuff is built, there's probably no going back. Yesterday was an interesting visit to the Committee on European Union Affairs. I would also like more Members and Members there, few of us, but we had an interesting guest, this is Commissioner Violeto Bulc. She was at one of the talks – not yesterday – said, "If we can present the second track to Europe as a powerful story, there will be money." That's what Mrs. Violeta Bulc says. And yesterday at the session, "I wish there was a minister here." She didn't say which, I thought, and we all knew which – I know you can't be at two ends at the same time. She showed slides, one we already know – Juncker's Fund 315 billion and so on. More than 37% of this fund has already been used, in Slovenia for infrastructure, absolutely nothing, except for the enterprise fund, but not as a cash flow, as a guarantee for loans EUR 180 million. The Commissioner, on behalf of the Commission, shows EUR 620 billion by 2020 for the Member States. Will we be able to make a powerful story in Europe for the second track, for Luca Koper as a whole, as an organism, as a logical whole? Will we be able to make a powerful story for another investment? I think we're capable. And someone had already said, "Where there is will, there is also a way." Now I don't know if we're running out of wills or where the problem is. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u96	The word has been given by Mr Uroš Prikl, to prepare themselves for the Mag. Bojan Krajnc and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! Dear colleagues, colleagues, all who participate in this session of the National Assembly! I think that I can rightly say that I am always critical, always looking at things with some real measure, with some real dose of criticism, of course the Minister of Infrastructure is not here, and there can be no exception. I'm critical of him, too. I could spot him here in a way of a little indecisiveness, maybe a little incompetence mainly in communication with the media, and maybe a lack of that greater degree of ambition, this expression has already been used here, drive and so on. However, I must say that I will vote in interpolation, as always, in my conscience and will not support this interpolation. Why won't I support her? I will not support it in particular for this reason, because the Minister at the meeting of the Desus Group has convinced me that it can be realistic to expect the continuation and realization of some of the key projects that have already run so many words today that I really do not want to repeat or repeat my predecessors. Of course, as we have heard, the windows in the world of Luke Koper – one of the key priorities, we are talking mainly about the uniformity of the port administration and we are talking mainly about the fact that there will be no division of concessions. Furthermore, the energy strategy, one of the key energy activities. Dear Mr Gasperšič, think again about moving the seat of the Slovenian Energy Holding Company to Maribor, because there are reasons for this and there are arguments that sit and are reasoned. The third development axis – for the inhabitants of southern Slovenia and for Korosce is the first development axis. And that means they can be mobile. Electronic tolling – I asked you about this yesterday in the framework of the Institute of Parliamentary Issues. I believe you'll be able to handle the optimum matter. The regulation of other roads for which the country is competent or responsible must also be your priority. Of course the second track, it's not here at all – yes, that's two points. [[…]] The first point is: Yes. The second point is: see point one. The logistics centre Maribor as well as some continuation of this railway connection between the West and the East, I think it is appropriate to speak. Studies have already been made on this. It is difficult to expect an airport in Maribor to be an important airport in terms of passenger traffic. For everything else, so for the logistics centre, all the other conditions are met. I think the Mariborians do deserve something in this country, and this is the right way, this is the right project for us, for the Mariborians. And of course, all other projects that speak in favour of the support of the Slovenian economy and which represent or enable them are a prerequisite for new jobs. With this, we know – less social transfers, greater prosperity and so on. At this point, when I am somehow limited in time because I would like other Members, my colleagues from Desus to speak, I will not interfere with what is the optimal solution, whether it is a public-private partnership, whether it is a budget, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, it is what European funds are through different funds or something else; only this I warn you, dear Minister, to make it effective and rational for the country. And if this is rational for the country, of course it is also for all taxpayers and taxpayers in this country. I cannot help but express here, not my intimate position, that I am a bit skeptical in the public-private partnership, especially because it is not 35 meters of water in Gornji Kašlje, but it is a large and strong infrastructure project; and if you decide to root away for the PPP if you choose to do so, however, it is necessary to say clearly and clearly how the private partner will also be paid. It can happen without some prophecy, without some black scenarios, that it will be someone's life's pension, and the country can lose it, so you have to be careful here. In conclusion, the Minister, so handmade artificially: the judge raised his hand, this attack will have to be completed as soon as possible; of course, it will end by reaching the goal in the end. In doing so, I wish you, as I was a little critical at first, in particular significantly more ambition, determination and success. Somehow we'll be working at the end of this year's re-inventura, but of course I didn't understand you that the machines would rattle and the shovels would be planted 31. 12. 2017, but only at the beginning of 2017. All good and I hope for the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u98	The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc. Prepare to be Mrs. Vojka Shergan and Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me tell you right away that I'm not going to support the interpolation. The reasons for this are many and multi-layered and cross, as my colleague Trček would say, a number of areas. The first area is the reply drawn up by the Minister in writing and in which he in detail and in a very well-founded manner rejects the unfounded findings of the Interpol proposalr. If we remember quickly, because the debate has been going on for quite some time and I would have started myself from behind as a minister myself, it is projects of electrification of the railway line Prague-Hodoš, which somehow seems to have been in the interpolation so that the interpolation would have some volume, some volume, was drawn from five veins, we have found that none of what the proponents claim in the interpolation, is true, especially that because of this project and electrification, the population and the economy of Gorička. The third observation was the privatisation of the state infrastructure in connection with the management of companies, subsidiaries in the Slovenian Railways, in line with the country's adopted Capital Investment Management Strategy and, in relation to the obvious, the most likely financing model for the second track project, this is with the public-private partnership model. Here, too, we have the Minister's assurances, to quote literally, "infrastructure must remain in the 100 % ownership of the Republic of Slovenia". Another type of interpolation reading is based on suspicions of unlawful influence on Dars and Luke Koper’s supervisors. You have not offered any evidence to this effect, the ministers have refused all the evidence at the expense of illegal influence and I quote again, "that he has never requested the replacement of any member of the Supervisory Board or administration". From here to reducing the interpretation of what I believe is the essence of the proposal for proposals, and that is to impose or state the Ministry, the Government in a clearly defined way of financing the construction of the second track, without taking into account all the risks we have heard here today, both for the levelling of the state budget and even more for the public debt – I do not know if you have forgotten that due to the Stability Pact we will therefore have to reduce public debt by about 1.2% in the next 20 years – that this will not be feasible. I have not heard from you, my colleague Zorčič has already pointed out that you have not proposed any model that would rule out all these risks. The model of public-private partnership as proposed by the Minister and which includes, as he has already mentioned, both Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper – and here I agree with my colleague Horvato that it is likely that the investment in the construction of the second track alone will not be interesting for the private partner – some agreement here will have to be found. If we go back to the time when the interpolation was created and it was filed, that is, on June 23rd, then the events of those days cannot be considered an agreement or, I extend my thesis on appropriate corporate governance, which is the case with Luke Koper. I do not want to insinuate that these two dates of the intervention and the first day of the blockade, July 1st, in any way related, but certainly the atmosphere created at the time did not have a beneficial effect on what had actually happened or prevented what should have happened in order to have some acceleration in the privatisation of the project. Moreover, today we can read in the media that there has been real damage. According to media reports, Slovenian Railways are expected to apply for compensation to Luka Koper of EUR 1.7 million. There is probably no one, especially among the proponents who would have wanted such a scenario; therefore, there has been real economic damage. At the same time, I do not touch on the right of workers to express their rights, but not in such a way as to cause economic damage. When we talk about the link between the second track of Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper, then at least for Luka Koper, we can say that the roles of the supervisory board of the Administration, trade unions, labour director, workers' councils are not clear and are not completely demarcated. There is, in my opinion, almost everyone has done everything wrong. In the first days of the blockade, the president of the board of workers seemed to be leading the company, or a working director, who had done nothing to bring about the talks. At that time, Minister Restoration was also involved in the active resolution of this problem. He even forbade the CEO to talk to him. I note this in this context of interpolation because, of course, this way of solving a problem and looking for solutions actually for the second track is causing economic damage and, of course, none of us want to do so. The second important thing at this first point in the construction of the second track is that it does not hold that the Ministry did not provide all the conditions for once, after the chosen appropriate model of financing the construction of the second track. So we have the beginning of the construction of the drawn track, which will eventually be part of the second track. It is not true that everything had already been done in the previous term, but 20% of the remaining land had to be acquired. An audit of the project was made or commissioned so that it would not happen as it did with TEŠ 6, and colleague Hanžek would certainly understand where he could lead to a free-of-the-commitment bid at a price, especially the lower one. Let us also remember some other periods in the history of building infrastructure in Slovenia, where prices collided below the impossible limit so that an annexation could be concluded later and the matter exploded. Therefore, caution in this place cannot be borne out by the Ministry; in fact, it is working hard to ensure that the financial structure is sustainable so as not to create negative public financial effects, which is of course important that, of course, the port of Koper, the Slovenian Railway, lastly, the economy as a whole, benefit as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u100	Once again, the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u101	I'll be telegraphing because apparently they're repeating these ping-pongs if I say so. Pragersko-Hodosh. Just like I said before when my colleague Kavčič explained it. The fact remains that it is still half the diesel locomotives, that there are restrictions on one section, the maximum speeds are not achieved and that, of course, no authorised power is provided to fully or overall justify those 450 million used for this update. Now you're calling for us to present an alternative model. We have repeatedly stressed — and I will obviously have to do it again — to take into account what economist Damian proposed. It is a purely simple model that the public-private partnership replaces for public funding. This means that those 200 million already reserved will be strengthened by trying to obtain funds under European calls and by the State either through Dars in the long term, or by making Dars a long-term commitment to the remainder of the project or to the country with bonds and so on. In short, it is a model that is potentially feasible, which can be avoided by somehow breaking the fiscal rule, and I stress, even if not, the fiscal rule does not prohibit borrowing, the fiscal rule speaks of the need to reduce the budget deficit. And if the corresponding newly created debt were to be covered by a new yield, such as a gas cent and other assets, then this effect would be neutral, would not affect the fiscal rule and would be resolved. And the other thing is, in fact, today the minister is talking about another model again. In response, and also in early September, the Minister in some way firmly agreed to a public-private partnership following the formula to obtain a private investor concession for the second track, first track and second capacity – today we have been hearing practically all day that the participation of Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper is necessary and that this would in some way be a mechanism that would avoid the granting of new concessions. So we have another story again, which is obviously very strong on the show today. But again, if we went into this option, so that Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways would be in charge of investing in the second track, we have exactly the same situation that the Minister is talking about regarding Dars' debt. Rather, it would be worse; sooner or immediately, the debt that would have been leased by Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways would have been reclassified to state debt. So this thesis now practically doesn't drink water. As for the sentence of the workers, Comrade Krajnc, you said between the lines that workers can strike only outside the working hours so as not to cause economic damage, which is, of course, a sort of nonsense. As for the request of the Slovenian Railways, the first day after the blockade, Slovenian Railways came in on a daily basis with an estimate of the value of the potential damage, which amounted to exactly EUR 1.7 million, and today, a few months later, they are applying for the exact same value. That is how I think they did very well at the time, and it should be stressed that they are also quite expensive.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u102	Ms Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you for your word! Mr. Minister, co-workers, secretary, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say, in fact, that today's debate is very sad because I know and see Mr Gasperšić as a successful and effective minister who can listen and help outside of Ljubljana's headlights. I would like to point out that in Zasav, where I come from, we had a severe storm in this mandate. Last August, in the municipality of Hrastnik and Laško, we met two reptiles that made transport very difficult, and I must say that the representatives of the Ministry, Directorate and Ministry of Infrastructure, under which the Directorate operates, were extremely effective. They looked at the slide and these consequences that made it impossible to transport the road Hrastnik–Rome Toplice, and the impact was also on the rail line of the Zidani Bridge–Hrastnik. I must say that they were extremely effective, that in just two days these injuries were removed and thus the road of the Roman Toplice – Hrastnik – the Zidani bridge was open. At that time, Minister Gasperšič also said that a 200 000 euro recovery had been carried out on damaged sections. He also promised that in the following year, and it is also envisaged, the major part of the Hrastnik-Zidani road will carry out reconstruction works, as well as the project documentation for the new road link between Hrastnik and the Wall Bridge, which will in future allow for the opening and joining the third development axis of this work. I am very pleased to hear from Minister Gasperšič that also for areas outside Ljubljana, for rural areas, in fact, make sure that these road links are solidly maintained, that transport and movement can also be made possible, and that citizens can also come to other parts of Slovenia. Such obedience was also shown by the Minister about the rock disaster in Trbovje, for here I would like to remind you that this beach was saved within a month, and this was indeed an outstanding example of good practice and cooperation, which should actually be a lesson for all of us. Because representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Infrastructure Directorate, the concessionaries, the Slovenian Army, the firefighters, the climbers and I must say that no one thought about the political benefits, but only that the inhabitants were cut off from the world and that they urgently needed this connection, so I welcome this way of action, the key role played by the linker, in this case of course Minister Gasperšič. At the same time, I would like to point out that for the road infrastructure itself, as many as 71 million were earmarked in 2015; that was the most in the last 10 years, more resources have been allocated in 2016, with a total of 73.5 million. Thus, for the first time since 2010, it has managed to reverse the negative trend of investment in road maintenance. This rehabilitation in Zasavje could then be successful. So, infrastructure stopped falling after years of lack of investment. Actually, it's up to one. 9. In 2016, 30 sections of the total length of 32 kilometres were renewed, and by the end of the year more overlays and re-renewals of the roads to 60 sections of the state roads at a total length of 48 kilometres are foreseen. In short, it was certainly the first time that this reconstruction of roads had started so effectively again. From this title they could also be restored and the transportation of the Bevško State Road and the bridge across the Sava in Trbovje could be established. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that both in the coalition agreement and in the promise of Minister Gasperšić regarding the construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Savi – the Minister here also follows the importance of the construction of these hydroelectric power plants and the fact that this is in fact part of the circular economy, which Slovenia also advocates, and that this installation of hydroelectric power plants is also very important, since, last but not least, this is an outstanding multiplier effect for Slovenia itself. 90% of the investment can be made at home. This means a major direct and indirect impact for both the state budget inflows from VAT, contributions to employment at the level of the necessary public funds invested, which is in line with the Ummarje estimate on the macroeconomic effects of the construction of hydropower plants. In short, also in this area Minister Gasperšič works for the good of both Zasavje and Slovenia. Speaking of which, I don't think it's right for a good minister to want to get so bad in public. I can understand that as, I don't know, unjustifiable allegations about the influence on Dars and Luke Koper's supervisors seem completely inappropriate to me. As I am aware, the Minister has filed a complaint and I believe and I hope that the trial mills will quickly turn away and maintain the good reputation of Minister Gasperšič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u104	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much, President. Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! A soldier can't say as well as you said. I must say, indeed, Minister, you have faith. But the soldier here for the public, this was an intervention fund, and if you open the road in two days, which he sucks, it's not a success yet. It's just an assignment that every minister should do. But it's out of the question. Sometimes when I listen, I get diabetes. Interpellation. Some wonder whether this interpretation is ideological, whether it is encouraged by some lobby, whether it is even financed — you know, all of this sucks. Interpellation is an interpolation, an interpolation is a tool of the opposition that it uses to distract – what I have said many times – from a small coalition and to make itself a political pear. And it's all out of the question that we're talking. This interpretation will be survived by Minister Peter Gasperšič, because all the opposition is not interested in this interpolation and the task of our coalition is relatively easy. Pika. So that's it. Why this interpolation has occurred, which is also justified in some way, but I must say that it is also right that we will agree on some things with this interpolation. The main fora of this interpretation, ladies and gentlemen, is the second track, everything else is beating, which road will any Member have, and I just tell you that I have been a Member for 12 years, and I'm driving to Ljubljana on the old bad roads and no minister has helped me so far, and we had our Minister. And I don't think it's gonna get any better. I am driving in the 21st century, if I go across the Podkum – Vojka and Dolinšek, when they praised all the ministers so much – over the macadam. Or I'm driving across the Wall, and I'm going to have to wait five minutes for the green light to turn on. That's how it's all without a connection. Why did this interpolation happen? Luka Koper, the workers have rebelled. Now you're saying that the workers took advantage of what and that they're encouraged politically and so on. I have to say, I haven't seen it like this, and it's only right that sometimes workers jump up and down. If we had ever jumped in Primorska before, and in our Slovenia, workers would have trade unions before, we probably wouldn't have made Istrabenz, and we wouldn't have Merkur, and we wouldn't have been made Pivovarna Laško, and so on and so on and so forth, and these tycoons who destroyed every part of Slovenia. Back then, unfortunately, there was no bullet like it was in Primorska. By telling you the truth, I don't approve of what Luke Koper's board of directors is doing. The management of Luke Koper is set up by the owner to manage the company well, and the owner has the right to supervise this administration and to set conditions for it and cannot be the administration itself. Why did this happen? And now, Minister, every man is wrong, and the wise man is that man, and the smart one is that minister, who may see a mistake, is trying to change his own ideas, and I have a feeling, Peter, that you absolutely did it. Now, why? We are talking about this second track, a public-private partnership when we confirm it and so on. But look at this one, I'm sorry, this idiotism. We would like to get the private to finance, and at the same time – don’t mind the minister – you say at the first hearing that there is no need for a second track. Yeah, then why would a private come to finance? And the sequel. We, the same ministry, order the OECD study and experts from Europe, which we all appreciate so much, which some read and so on, these same experts say that this second track has no economic basis. For God's sake, who in this world, when he reads this, will be willing to invest the euro in such an investment! I don't know him. And then it started rolling and rolling and rolling and there was this rebellion in Primorska and at the end of this interpolation. However, the Minister and his thinking is such that we can build with a public-private partnership, but listen, private in such a way as to involve Luke and to include the Railways. I'll be right with you. These two companies are good companies for my terms. Railways have also been restructured over 15 years and, in cooperation with administrations, are a good company with the directors of Slovenian Railways today. But it can be even better if we have this second track. And that's why these two administrations need to sit at the same table, talk about how we're going to fund this. Only in this way can we build this second track and in no other way. Because if the private comes, he's gonna want that money back. Since he knows that he can't get it by use or by any means, he's going to want it through his property, he's called Luca. This, I hope, not Minister Gasperšič, but this part, we will never allow such a company as Luka Koper to be sold. Last time I was on a TV show, I said when a reporter said, or we're stopping the privatisation, "My people, we don't have anything else to sell in this country!" We can sell yes, Petrol, the insurance company, Luca, Telekom. And that's all. Everything else we've sold or destroyed, we don't have anything to sell anymore, but we can manage it much better. And these four companies, however, this government has not set up directors, are doing this moment well. Let them generate profits to develop, and let the state enable them to develop well. And you don't have to sell them. So Minister, from this point of view, you have absolutely reassured me, but I am aware of something; we can replace Gasperšič today, and Jože Novak or Miha Kmetič will come there as Minister. You think Miha Kmetič will be able to build a second track if the government, the finance minister, the prime minister and all the ministers don't follow him and say, "This is how it's going to be built." I can't! He's not a hero. And there's something else I have to say to Mr. Dolinsch. I know it's nice to be a Member, I've been a 12-year-old, but gentlemen from the SMC, only so much: it didn't all start with you, the building permit didn't bring Christmas, the land -- they didn't come, but they did, because Gasperšič came to the Ministry, here's the land, but the procedures lasted a while, and the previous governments did. It doesn't matter if I was in this government as a Member, whether it was the SDS in that government, or whether it was Alice's boss, but not owning: all that's good is yours, but what's bad is from those before. I've been in all these governments before, and I know how hard it used to be, and how it's always been a little easier. As I will never say, but now the SDS is New Slovenia, and then Desus, when they were in the government during those years, was because they were so successful. Me nothing! The money was running on its own. However, 2009 was cut. Basically, Minister, you have to get a mandate as soon as possible and the government has to agree with you in charge with Cerar, Prime Minister of the Government on how we will finance this. For us, the Social Democrats, it was enough when you told us in the parliamentary group that there would be no concessions and that there would be no sale of Luke Koper. So far, I have no reason not to believe Gaspersich like that. But I will not go to the local roads, to intervene, because this will not give me five political points in Radeč, because everyone knows the way in which the Member of Parliament works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Han. The next panellist is Mr Jani Möderndorfer, to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u107	Good-bye! It's seven o'clock, probably watching the news, not us. I have to admit, it's actually one of the most boring interpretations I've had since I've been monitoring the interpolation. If I said recently that one of the worst interpretations was prepared at the previous interview, it's certainly one of the most boring. For a simple reason, however, because those who were preparing it were either in the process and in the rush of putting it in at the time and, of course, today this interpolation does not have the echo and the charge that it was when it was put in, or they did not really mean it — what they were writing into the interpolation itself. In my debate, I will try to touch on the most important things, but at the outset, let me say that I do not object to any debate that takes place on the subject of which citizens and citizens are interested, and we must be interested in the Parliament for which the government is responsible. And if we find any constructive ideas or guidance for the government in such debates, I think the Minister will be happy to be with us all day, he wrote a lot of things down and also checked them out after further discussions that I have listened to among others. If we go in line, the Minister's response followed the interview. I have to say, already that the interpolation is written, if I subtract signatures, on 12 and a half pages, it says that the interpolation isn't interesting because you didn't have the guts to write anything serious. So many problems and serious problems like Luke Koper, second track, Dars, connections, I'll tell you, if we were to do this interpretation on that side, we'd write a hundred pages on the interpretation. But it is true that sometimes there is something to be learned, but it is still time. If we go in line – irresponsible behaviour and inhibition of the construction of the second track of Koper-Divič. Of course, you've all mentioned several times today, and the minister has said at least twice what he meant when he said what he was thinking at the so-called famous hearing. If I read, "I don't think we need it now or we can't afford it." He said – I specifically underlined – "I think". You know what they say: I think how it goes, but I'm not gonna say it today. [[…]] But only after he became a minister — and usually so — does the counselors come and in two months usually the minister gets a headache. Headache, because only then did he find out where he was sitting, and kneecaps the day he agreed to be Secretary at all. Because he knows that a lot of things are actually getting a lot harder than when he thought before he agreed to become a minister. So when I was listening to this sequence that I had surrounded today, I laughed and said to myself, "This will still be a headache because of this statement. Well, we all know that we have tried several times to end these hearings in the site, because, hand to heart, except for a public presentation, these hearings make no sense. We ask people, some ministers, when they come to the hearing, they don't even know what the government's plan is and how the legislative process is running, and they only learn that after fourteen days, when counselors explain to them that it's not that simple, and it's not that fast, and it's a coalition and something else. And so today, referring to hearing, as I listened to my colleague, seems extremely unserious to me, as this kind of defense was also offered by her ministers. She's also put this calvary through and at the very least, you're on slippery ground if, as former Prime Minister, you're reading something today, because there are too many things that can be seen very quickly. But today she's not on the wallpaper, today she's the minister, so let's move on. Illegal influence on the guards Dars and Luke Koper. The first time I heard this on TV when I was monitoring the reports, my answer was very clear: Minister, sue them, and do it now! Because it is, excuse me, unworthy of someone coming in front of the camera and saying, "The minister called me and said I have to go or I have to replace someone and I don't know what else to do." And then he doesn't bring any credible evidence that he can prove that that's true. The minister gets a pear on his nose, immediately in ten minutes microphones and at the same time questions whether that's true. Of course, first he doesn't even know why he's going, secondly, he gets confused. And the journalist's comment is: Mmm, he was stuttering. And people are already thinking their own. And only when headquarters tells him, "Wait a minute, Minister, you have to react, you have to do something! But the train has moved on, and the minister has got the label that he's the one who's calling around and actually changing ministers. It may be true, but, excuse me, on those sides they always said something was not true and that the Chief of Staff was not guilty of anything. Even the court ruled in the end. Did anyone judge the minister? Has anyone proved anything to him? Has anyone ever tried to do anything to him? Nothing, absolutely nothing. But it says in the interpolation: Suspects of unlawful influence on the guards Dars and Luke Koper. I'm sorry, when I read it to my mom, she said, "Yes, of course, I'm suspicious, I'm sorry, it's rude, it's not going anywhere." [[…]] And that's why I find such an epiphany unworthy. Proposer, bring the evidence, bring it to the table and tell – when, with whom, where, and in what way. Will you, like the Slovenian Democratic Party, come with a mountain of newspaper articles?Oh, my God! This is not done, these exercises and these lessons have already been given in this House through and are unworthy. Let's get to the next reading. The next observation is an effort to privatise state infrastructure. I have listened to such nonsense today, from the fact that the award of the concession is a start and an attempt at privatisation. So tell me, what law does that say, which one?Oh, my God! I don't know. An unwritten rule for you, perhaps?Oh, my God! This is some new tumnus, a new attempt at thinking, because by this logic we already have three quarters of Slovenia privatized. Sorry, we have concessions in health. Is that private?Oh, my God! For me, I repeat a hundred times that no; but this is a network, a public network that must have equal conditions and all must function equally. [[advertising from the hall]] As always, my colleague Trček is tired of my speech. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Of course, absolutely, I know, I'm used to it, but nothing about it. He asked me this morning for coffee, "Will you procedurally stop me?" I haven't done it once, but it's true that he did it three times. If we move forward, concessions cannot and must not be the beginning of privatisation. But it's some kind of deal that needs to be clear in advance, what kind of deal and what kind of deal you get for it. You discussed and talked today about the idea that the award of the concession was something that the country would end up paying for the concession to someone else. Excuse me, if this ever happens, the government will decide first and take responsibility, only then knows what awaits it in Parliament. Something like this can't happen, because then it's no longer a concession, but it's a contractual relationship where two parties agree on something and it's very clear why, how much and how. But you both have to be in favor. And then this government and the minister will come to Parliament to explain why. But before he does and what you keep asking him – tell me by what model; tell me which pier you will privatize or grant a concession and do not know about anyone else. The minister has already replied to you at least twice today: Until the financial structure is clear what we are going into, and until we have the whole picture, you are ahead of schedule. But it's true that at the TES, which has been talked about all along today, everything got ahead of itself. And I hope that's what taught us that I can't repeat this exercise. Supervisors. Sorry, we keep saying the same thing all the time, it is that in private capital it is known how to work, and there everything is transparent, clear and clear; therefore sometimes it is better to put everything into private hands because public nothing works. Of course, I am not defending this theory, but I am advocating the reverse thesis – if this is true, we must be completely equal in the public sector and be equally accountable to capital and in dealing with resources as in private. But then some other rules have to apply equally, you know. If what happened in Luke happened with the Supervisory Council and with the direction of the administration, which I do not support – this clearly and out loud – in Germany; without the workers out on the road, the next day they would be gone. And no one would protest there. If they were so smart, they would have given up on their own, or they wouldn't have done it at all. With us, because this is public, in part, we also have some private capital, but we have made the whole rhompom. Port is not only from Primorska, Primorska lives a lot of this; it is from all of Slovenia and we must all be responsible for this question. But to use it for such interpolation in this way seems extremely unusual to me. I wouldn't do that at all. Studies. Before me today, a colleague spoke about studies that certain studies had been commissioned. I agree with that. I often ask myself who I'm going to order and who's going to order them. And we often talk about how certain studies are ordered. I sometimes believe less and less in this economic world, who wants to introduce and help someone because I feel that everyone has certain interests. However, in the end, we will have to decide whether we believe or not. The study, which was carried out, was also based on certain assumptions and certain baselines. Therefore, we must first focus on this issue so that we can discuss the results of this study equally. And that is, if I go back to the beginning when the minister was at the hearing, he said one thing; but when he became a minister, he realized that certain things could move. And this idea also became a government programme, and, of course, as a minister, he began to stand up for this idea and he had to look for solutions to how to achieve this goal, not the other way around, how not to carry out this project. We can order another study, but I am more interested in what is most important to us – how much it will actually cost us and how we will come to it. But don't forget, because today there was also a lot of talk about the public-private partnership, according to the proposaler's word, already starting to privatise. If so, let us ask ourselves why we have adopted the Public-Private Partnership Act 2006. I apologize, the person who has read this marriage seriously has all the elements and this law accurately states: who, when, where, in what way, what conditions, what forms of partnership we know, what must happen sooner, what a promoter, what a promotional contract must look like. In short, the whole picture has to be clear. Otherwise, the Court of Auditors will come, we expect it in any case, and it is even desirable to come and see with its parameters how the project was carried out or carried out. And the Court of Auditors does not have to wait until the last day, the Court can already, in the interim phase, review what is really going on with this project, and in this way also, on behalf of the State, exercise control over public proceedings or processes themselves and with the money that we are talking about most today. Today, the traffic was also mentioned. Some are angry or even say that the minister did this as gifts for before the interpretation; and therefore he did, as Alenka Bratušek said, a free tunnel. No, we're not driving anywhere for free, it can only be free. It's always paid for, even where we think we're driving for free, because that tunnel has to be maintained and there are certain costs, but not the other, but the maintenance itself. But some of you have already forgotten that in Ljubljana Dars also wanted to set up a toll station on the bypass. Likewise, the desires were immeasurable and the plans were already made, and the matter stopped before it happened. And here, as a colleague said, someone hadn't done their homework much earlier. So you have to ask yourself, who, when, where does he come from? I even heard today, I mean, a colleague from New Slovenia who said we don't need a minister who is a toothless tiger. I'm sorry, I don't need a minister who's all-knowing and all-telling, and he's the only one who decides, and no one else. We have some decision-making parameters in democracy, and we know who, when, at which point he enters. And remember, the local community is completely autonomous at certain points and the state cannot interfere with a particular decision. Let me finish. Interpellation is in its own way a kind of sobriety and, if not another, if it is an important question, the question that we are actually discussing by the parliamentarians and finally whether there are valid reasons and also arguments to say whether the Minister or the Minister has actually exceeded his powers during his ministry with political decisions or in such a way and otherwise. I can tell you the following. I'm sorry. The coalition has some responsibilities, too. This moment to replace the Minister means that the second year will not be what he is talking about, and the Minister is taking the floor to begin the construction of the second track. If we do this now, call it over. Let's wait for the next term, the new minister, and it's all from the beginning. And that's why it's the coalition's responsibility not to let that happen. Do you know when the Minister should go after two years? When you get it with your hand in marmalade or when you give it up yourself. Otherwise, with this coalition, it's better to say good-bye, relax, and say we're not serious. And this also applies to other ministries that we will continue to have, and it will probably be even hotter than this today. Because today is really sad, boring. I haven't had such a boring interpretation in a long time. I don't know what you've got to say, buddy Han, but I still have 10 minutes. I knew you wanted me to mention you. Minister, the moment has come, and I hope that some are tired, and we may be done early; but nevertheless your responsibility is very clear, not just to the coalition. Or, as colleague Alenka Bratušek says, not only do we listen to you, but the Slovenian public or taxpayers listen to you; we are all interested in whether we are capable of all together, government and parliament, to prevent the so-called breakdown that our predecessors with TEŠ 6 have made. I believe – yes; otherwise I would vote in favour of interpretation. In this case, I would like you to implement and facilitate as soon as possible those tensions that arise on this issue. I wish you a happy journey!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Möderndorfer. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovac. After him, Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you, Vice President. First, my colleague Matjaž. What he said and the assurances that calmed you down are just a few rhetorical questions. If all of this is true of what the Minister said and what you took, then why is the Minister continuing talks with Hungary, which is mentioned if this money is provided by state companies, namely Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper? Secondly, at the same time, you are convincing us in some way that Slovenian railways need to be privatized because they are in debt; and this is what the Law on the Slovenian Railway Company is talking about. Those who adapt to the management strategy and business plan of the Slovenian Railways. And we have often heard intimidation here today, as well as in the past, that Darsa's debt, that is, the alternative model of funding proposed by Damian and other economists, in some way reclassified into the country's debt. Will the debt of Slovenian railways, which they would take to invest the second track, not be reclassified to the debt of the country?Oh, my God! He'll be right there, of course he will. And this story has too many holes or open questions for me to buy; even when I hear it from a person who changes the board daily. My friend Möderndorfer was teaching and leaving; I think he's a little overly patronizing. Apparently, for him, the course of this interpolation is boring. If I could sit in here a little longer, he'd be a little more interesting, but good. I'd say the mood hasn't changed at the time. From July to today, the climate in Primorske remained as high as it was in the middle of the hottest summer. The Civil Front of the Upstairs Primorska – The Uprising of Slovenia issued an invitation yesterday, 13 September 2016, which states that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia insists on the construction of a second track following the model of public-private partnership and thus risks that the second track will not be built or would be inappropriately expensive for citizens than direct state investment. Then, in conclusion, like all citizens, we are concerned that they will reimburse the budget more expensive than the loans that the state would hire. As Primors, however, we are appalled that the project is not feasible without tied business, this is the privatisation of the management of our public port infrastructure. And it calls for the conclusion, if these answers are not provided, we call on Members to support the intervention of Minister Gasperšič, because otherwise we will convene a 4th meeting of the Government's Supervisory Board in the Civil Front. These are demonstrations organized by this front, which is what they call it. And I think that this mood will be much more heated after today, especially because of the coalition's decision to support the minister. Public opinion in general, three surveys were carried out at the time of interpolation. All three have shown that the public generally supports the interpolation, including in the last two made by Dnevnik and Work in September. Jani also said between the lines that workers, like his colleague Krajnc, do not have the right to strike. In short, if it were to happen in any other company that is not predominantly state-owned, workers who have so resisted could just stay on the road. If we were to strike, we would lose our jobs, which is a kind of position represented by the representative of the Modern Centre Party. With regard to the ordering of studies, the same logic can be applied to the study commissioned by the Ministry. The study is an OECD contract with a clear plan, once again an item that the state will finance a second track with a public-private partnership. The results of this study are, of course, quite clear. As far as who's ahead of you is concerned. Mr. Gasperšič is on the move. He said himself that it is necessary to wait first to assess the audit, to see what the real cost of building a second track is; we already know that this construction will have to follow the public-private partnership model and so on. At the end of the day, journalists have apparently obtained informal information on RTV Slovenia’s TV daily that the revised estimate of the value for the construction of the second track is almost half less than 1.4 billion. We have 700 billion to invest, we deduct VAT, we deduct those 200 million that the country has given, we count on what the European Union will give; and I am confident that we can build this track without public-private partnership. The fact that it makes no sense to replace the minister makes no sense is that it is also a preposterous statement that the minister will leave alone if he does not start building next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u110	Matjaž Han wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u111	Matthew, I don't want to argue with you, but I don't know what, how, how, how the Minister communicates; and I don't care. I don't go to his audience, I don't raise money from European funds, I don't have that knowledge, so I don't know what he's doing. But all I see is his results. That's another thing. The Slovenian railways you're reading so much to them, but now I'm going to say one thing that the old railroaders taught me. For many years the Slovenian Railways in some way helped Luka Koper to make a profit. And they taught me very plastic, the container comes up, picks up the container from the ship and puts it on the pier – it's one price. This container needs to be loaded onto a train and brought to Vienna — it gets the same money. In a way, Slovenian railways have always subsidized the good profits of Luka Koper. And my dears, who, if any, then Luke Koper and the Slovenian railways must be interested in building the second track. And when the second track was built, they used to say they wouldn't drag three locomotives anymore, so they could only drag one to make a profit. Then these two companies are interested and you have to be as long as they're owned by us. But we have to sell the story. As for the poll, my dear Matthew, if the government were to rule on polls, what the people thought, then we must go now. You have to point where you go; not what people will say to you and what they will write to you in the forums and so on. Because based on what he says about me in the forums, he should have committed suicide a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The text is again requested by the representative of the proposer, Dr Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u113	Just for clarification. I am not saying that something would be wrong with the relationship between Slovenian railways. All I'm talking about is that we don't want to privatise Slovenian railways. The other thing is that Slovenian railways are not now able to finance such a project because they are already in debt. And I'm using an argument that the minister is referring to, say, if Dars hired a loan, it would go to the state's debt. The same applies to Slovenian railways because it is a similar company or has no exceptions to Dars.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Tomaž Gantar. After him, Mrs Marijani Kotnik Poropat, and for her to prepare Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! If I could make a little joke at first, if the Minister did not convince me of all the arguments, I would almost be convinced by my colleague Möderndorfer. Almost, not quite. Can we in Slovenia today boast and be satisfied with economic growth as it has been published? This is, of course, a big question, if possible in a few years, and much depends also on the second track. Today we are witnessing various negotiations. The Economic and Social Council is considering the abolition of austerity measures. We know the pay situation, the pensions. We want public health, public education and there is no one among us who would not believe that all of this is dependent and possible only with appropriate economic growth. Why so much discussion about the second track? It is perfectly clear to me and probably to all of us that the story is not from yesterday and that Minister Gasperšič cannot be held accountable for all the time that has been lost in the past. It is the fact that we are running out of time in these years; and if Slovenia does not get another track in the near future and also with an immediate clear signal that the second track will be built, then we can slowly bury the logistics story in Slovenia. Logistics in Slovenia, however, is one of those areas that certainly represents one strategic advantage, one of the economic possibilities that I think we do not have very much at our disposal. Slovenia has it in this area, the way to the Central European pool is the shortest via Slovenia. On the other hand, we know that they are seeking to gain priority in this area of the neighbouring country; firstly, Italy is interested, probably some other country, too, Croatia. Everyone would like transport and transhipment, as is realized today by Luka Koper, which is significantly more successful than competing ports in the northern Adriatic. And that's why this second track is crucial to the development of logistics in our country. For example, Italy, Furlania - The Julian landscape considers port traffic growth to be the most important generator of their economic development, while we are wasting our opportunity. And sometimes when it comes to all kinds of awkward things, one really wonders who it is in the interest of, who does it really serve?Oh, my God! Because the complications were abnormally large and everything is simply difficult to explain with normal logic. And for whom is the story of the second track important? We are also often mixing the interests of the Coast, which is logically present, with the interests of the country, where we often forget that it is even more important than it is for the Coast itself. But despite all that, the coast today has one industrial track that has already exceeded all its capacity from the estimated million and a half tons. I think today it's moving over this industrial track over 11 million tonnes a year. The track goes through the water protection area, the problems are with fires. And as we have already witnessed, whatever incident on this route, on this section means that the logistics chain in Slovenia will largely stand still. We know that the transshipment in Luka Koper means over 50% of all transportation that happens in our country. In addition, according to the Faculty of Economics study in Ljubljana, each million tonnes of overworked goods represent 450 new jobs and over 40 million euros of realisation in the economy. It is said that there can be no doubt here that Slovenia, as a country, must be interested in building a second track. If there is no confidence in the minister in this construction, it can also go to the government, it is essentially the minister's fault. All too many views have been changed, too many questions have been answered in the past. I think that this has largely fostered this mistrust that is at the moment ruling. Also, the project and the presentation of, for example, the establishment of 2TKK, I think that this company, which is on its own without the appropriate law on the construction of the second track, does not mean much. Earlier, I fear that this will mean a new source of new analysis and similar. The decision that this law is not or has not yet been adopted is once again one of the arguments that raises doubts about the genuine desire for such a project. The issue of the current audit of the company also raises personal doubts for me, although I believe that there are certain safeguards in the audit itself. Nevertheless, Italy is also involved in the selected companies which carry out the audit. Italy, like that country that's the first country that can't be interested in us building a second track. And I don't know how you imagine under substantially changed conditions that the audit can somehow display. This probably means that there is also a need to change the building permit, and then, of course, we do say goodbye definitively from the second track. As far as supporting the Minister and the interpretation itself is concerned, I must say that the conversation with the Minister has nevertheless been corrected in some way. The Minister ensured that there would no longer be a discussion on the division of the concession of Luka Koper, which is crucial; because I personally believe that Luka Koper would not sell herself because the government would probably not survive if we went to the sale of the port of Koper. But just dividing the concession would mean that there would be something negligible left of the current company, it would not be Luke Koper anymore, but it would be a small company, while the transfer in Luka Koper would serve mainly the others who would receive the concession. But I'm counting on this concession story to be abandoned. In addition, the minister assured him that he did not insist on the back terminal that this was a decision in the hands of Luke Koper. And by doing so, he has largely answered the key questions, and there are some that we have also set certain conditions. It is one of the key, and I, too, have mentioned these interpretations – as you yourself mentioned, Minister – I do not understand as a battle against a public-private partnership. At least we in our Group did not make this conditional. But we wanted an answer that we didn't even get as coastal Members in the previous procedure and not now – how will this potential private investor be paid? That's the key question. Everyone expects a return, usually around 8-10%. If the concession is not distributed, the story of the third pier, since the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran, can be forgotten. Regarding the story with the first pier, however, problems with the Municipality of Koper have been identified. A key question remains to which we expect an answer by the end of the year – what will a private investor be paid if you choose to do so? By not imposing any solution as it is. At the same time, we expect financial construction of the project and construction deadlines. And I believe you won't have a problem with that because you predicted you'd start building in the coming year. That is why I believe that the deadline that we are talking about by the end of the year is to know how to build a second track, by what means, at what height, and in particular with what assurance to a potential private investor. And today, I personally, like my colleagues, will not support the interpretation of what you have already said. I really hope that the answer will be completed and the planned construction will begin in the following year.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, you have the floor. After you, Mr. Jože Tanko and Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Madam President, and a nice greeting to all present! I would first touch on the debate that my distinguished colleague Bojana Muršič had, which comes from Ruš as well as me. She talked about road connections or needed investment in these long - term roads. I would only add a carousel past the city of Ruša, which would go north of the city of Ruša, between Drava and the city. This project has been dealt with for many years and, like other matters, is being postponed because it is a problem with financial resources. So much for that. Now I would focus on interpolation; I will focus mainly on the second track, because I think that, as has already been established today, this second track is the case for which this interpolation has been submitted. Well, there are other things, but I think it's the most pressing problem that concerns all of us. And I would first point out that today this minister is not only a problem with the second track, but that the previous governments have already discussed this, they have opened up this problem, but then this activity is dead. We are now so far away that we really need to realize this second track. I would like to comment here on the reasons which, in my opinion, led to the fact that the interpretation was put in, I do not have much time, because I must leave it to my colleague, Mr Jurša. At the hearing on the Infrastructure and Space Committee, the candidate, respected by Dr Gasperšič, presented himself as a candidate for the Minister of Infrastructure and then stated this famous sentence that we do not yet need another track or that we will not need another 30 to 40 years. Mr. Gasperšič then changed his mind when he realized that things were quite different or quite different than he had seen at the time. Today it was also explained how it is with the candidates for ministers who do not know the matter and then it comes to such things. Then I would touch on this application, which was submitted for European funds under the Connecting Europe Facility, which is the CEF. We were unsuccessful here. I think that this was also possible premature or inappropriate – although I have now been explained that the government has approved this role – despite the fact that we have no data on how much the investment will cost, and some other things. I used to think that this was some kind of blemish to the minister who decided to play this role, but he didn't have enough data. The thing was a little different, but I remember that, too. Then the decision to build a public-private partnership and another alternative to public funding. I must say that I am also personally inclined to build with public funds of the State, Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways, although we have previously heard Dr. Vatovac say that Slovenian Railways are very indebted and is a problem. But I think it would suggest that we think very deeply about this and that we would also take into account the explanation given by Mr Weber today in connection with this funding. Then the establishment of a company, 2TDK, for the implementation of the investment. If I may speak my mind here. I think it's a more expensive option, because we're setting up a society, because this society needs to function, it needs spaces, it needs leadership, it needs employees. And in my opinion, this is one more expensive option to maybe go some other way, it's just an opinion. In addition to this study, which we received from members of the committee, some others from Parliament and others from other institutions, when the Minister ordered at one institution, which then in his expert opinion or report found that we do not need another track to carry cargo from the port of Koper to Divaca, where we would have an external warehouse, and that this cargo would then be shipped to the railway. We found that to be inappropriate, and that was probably not the right move the Minister made at the time. Let me finish. We have heard enough today, and my colleagues from Desus have told me, and also our respectable colleague Jurš in his presentation on the position of the Group of Members, how we talked with the Minister and how we discussed and decided on the support or non-support of this interpretation. We have come to the conclusion that we also act constructively in this case and that we support the Minister, so we vote against the interpretation, and that we give him the opportunity to perform because he has the will and knowledge. I am sure that he will do things as he should, and that he will succeed in his efforts. Dear Minister, I wish you a successful job! I expect, as we said in Desus, such results as you have also publicly presented when you promised your efforts in this area at the press conference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Kotnik Poropat. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. After you, Dr. Dragan Matić and Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. What happens to the positions of the Minister is in fact the rule of this government. The President of the Government has also promised zero tolerance for corruption, and now it is quite different. He promised respect for the rules and laws and so on, the decision of the institutions of the rule of law; now it is quite different. And even after these changes in his position, the Minister does not give up completely anything in this mandate. So if he once said something, it could be a month or sometimes later it's completely different. The question that arises when it comes to the proposer is when they put the filing of the interpolation into place. If we remember, it was at the height of the conflict for predominance in Luka Koper. It was said that red and extremely red or ultra red were quarreling there and that the administration had stood up with the control council in a position. If this fight was the basis for the intervention of the Minister. is something wrong, because I would expect those who have a zero rate to various deviant phenomena to be ordered first by the commission of inquiry in Luka Koper and the events that happened there. This would be expected as a first step to clear up the situation, to check things out and also to determine whether what is written in newspapers, even in Finance, because there recognised commentators, who are economists, identify certain unusual things in Luka Koper. Finally, I would like to remind you that you have amended the provisions of the Labour Relations Act by means of the maritime law, which have specifically changed certain relationships with tenants in Luka Koper. But none of the proponents, including those who fight for the most labour rights, have noticed this problem, have been troubled. It is obvious that this is also about purely some other stories than our destiny, yours, whatever, Luke Koper and the fate of another track. This has obviously been misused in some way, but the government has somehow drawn itself into the background and this interpretation against the minister has been filed for a bluff. I think we should put in something else, a request for an investigative commission; and clear up the situation that is going on there. Here we hear a lot about which variant is better for the construction of the second track and for the development of the port of Koper and this joint project of Slovenia. Question; it can be a better private initiative, it can be a public-private partnership, it can be a better state investment. That's all there is to finding out. This cannot be determined by the ultra left party or by a slightly less left party or by the right party, which variant of building a project is the cheapest and most favourable for the country. It's just a matter of model, project, research, investors, demands and so on. The fact that you define in advance what is best – you do have a business plan, you do have the development of Luke and the development of the network; it is my opinion, and I have been from the economy and I have also been involved in investments – is, I can say, a fool. This is not based on any analysis and nothing, but on a political decision. I think that because of European aid, Greece had to sell some of its ports, including its ports in Piraeus. I would like to know what the results of this sold port in Piraeus are; they are better than before when it was managed by the Greek State, whether they are better now that they are managed by, say, a private or any other investor. Can someone answer me? I think they own this port now. They say the results are several times better after the transhipment, after the volume of business, on a financial scale and so on. So he's a better public or private owner?Oh, my God! In the case of the port of Piraeus, you can take the port of Hamburg or something else, I don't know, I don't deal with the ownership of the port. But the question is whether there is a private initiative in some area – as well as Luke Koper or other ports, Luke Trieste – better than the state. And I would expect all those who deal with this project to come first with some analysis, including comparisons on the table and present it to us. To be perfectly honest, the construction of the second track takes place, if you remember, after exactly the same steps as the construction of TER 6. They are exactly the same steps, the pressure of the toilet lobby – the pressure of the sea lobby. Some project has been made – another project has been made. There was a lot of excitement — there it was. There's a building permit, there's a building permit being forced in one way or another. It will be followed in one way or another by the law of guarantee and various NIPs, which will fix it for three months at a price, but it will go up. If you look at this analogy of events, you will come to this conclusion. The exact same process is ongoing in the development of this project. No one deals with rationalisation, no one deals with appropriateness, cost assessment and so on, but only with the level of investment. And when everyone says it's awfully high, they raise another 200 million and then another 100 million, and then it's the right price. And it's just like that. When the project is built, they eventually find that half is still missing for what it was. That it was not all in the project, it was not all in the census, there was no I don't know what, one, two and three; and there was a bunch of extra parts. And this project, as it is set up and as it is politically pressured, will experience in another environment the exact same fate, effect and impact on the state budget. It won't be any different because it's driving like this. This company, founded by the government, is about identical, analogous to a forestry company; some money, about 40, 50 million money went to a forestry company; here I hear it's 200 million. There's a business plan, we know what we're gonna give this money for, we know what we're gonna get for it. All those who support the government, Minister, should have these answers before you decided to support such a solution. The coalition can't be inert at such large amounts; there can't be some amorphic mass that's just trying to figure out what the government is proposing. We don't know anything about 200 million here, but there's not 50,000 euros in this government to keep the Osilnica branch school going. We know what we're talking about. A trip of migrants to the sea cost half that money that would be enough for that school in Osilnica. This is this country, this is this policy and this coalition. And whatever we're talking about here, it's a big problem. We don't get any relevant data, we don't know anything; but the numbers are falling to give you a headache; and so there's no problem getting anything in the budget. Also, what's been going on in the media is that you and the minister sat down and made strict demands on him. Mrs Porotat spoke about the siege around Ruš, some other Member of Parliament about some other province; this is pure corruption. We are talking about content, whether the matter is standing or not; not about who the minister will give a million or two to make a parking lot or a walkway. That's not serious. This is not how you deal in interpolation. We are talking about content, content stands or not; and this must be rejected without any unnecessary negotiations, signatures, promises and so on. Let me just remind you of some things, such as the road to Kočev we have proposed several times in the Slovenian Democratic Party and there has been a deadlock in 2011. We passed the bill anyway. Every amendment we have proposed to the budget has fallen, and so have you. The route would be over by now if we accepted. And whatever coalition was at that time, more or less of Pahor's, then Bratuskov's, now Cerari's, rejected it. In this mandate we have also tabled a law, a few months ago, in March, if I am not mistaken, on road and rail infrastructure, with resources and so on; it has fallen. And now you're arguing and negotiating with the minister for one bypass around a one-million-euro settlement. That's funny, that's funny. You are unable to identify, say, serious proposals and projects that would provide some systemic resources for the development of the transport area, road and rail, and then barant there in the backstage for some small projectors. This is a problem for the Minister and also for you, the coalition Members, as well. It's the same. There's no difference. There were also protests in Luka Koper, and there was a stalemate. Now we find that it is lame; or until the delay that caused this interpolation, there are some huge costs for the railway. It is likely that foreign users of the port of Koper have fallen out, more or less of which are used by foreign companies for waste cargo, for cars, wood and so on. Who's gonna pay for this? Now that the question of whether it's the government's fault, whether it's the administration's fault, whether it's someone else's fault in that company, it's all stopped. And now, with some maneuver ahead of us, he's trying to disguise himself a little bit, put himself under the table, the coalition will support the minister, a few dissatisfied opposition members; and this will be it. I think that the problem of transport, including health care, education and others is being solved too easily, too easily, too with your left hand. And it can't be an honor or a coalition, it can't be an honor to us too, because we warn and shout it, it sounds like a voice screaming in the desert, otherwise the media turn and pack it differently; but the country is lagging behind and tones. Today, by economic growth, all the countries of Visegrad and Baltica, which are in the European Union, are all of them, according to most of the criteria. All of it! We have lost all the advantage we have brought to the European Union. We were the best-developed country in Eastern Europe; today, gentlemen, after 2008, this is no longer the case. It's gone! Look at the international comparisons, look at the tables, look at the purchasing power, and you'll see if that holds what I'm saying or not. The Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, some have already outrun us, others are here like us, but they were down somewhere. If you don't believe me, you have access to the portals, you can order an analysis on the Finances, you can go to Eurostat. You can get that information anywhere you want, but that's right. What doesn't work in this part? This is not the kind of thing that we talk about here when we have these backstage conversations, negotiations, remittances from one pocket to the other, left and right; in the end, we come up with no smart project and solution, nothing. In this case, you are also involved in the field of transport, probably there is some kind of hidden protocol as well as in the field of health, when some people who have acted for my notions are quite successful, such as the administration of Darsa, should be cleaned up in some way. What happened at this time of improvement after this exchange, whether the prisons are smaller, shorter, less traffic accidents on highways, better rescues, better other measures, better profits? Has the exchange only occurred in order to drop the charges against some who have done some other things in the previous administrations of Darsa and have been in criminal proceedings?Oh, my God! This way you can't put up any project, you can't get any things for the better, you can make it better; you can just throw the shit out of one pile into another pile. And that's what you do. I advise the coalition to be realistic, because the price we pay, which we have paid in these years after 2008, and which we will continue to pay, because things are not going properly, will be extremely high. I'll pay something for me, and most of those who come after us into the economic, political, cultural, school and other spheres will pay for it. And unfortunately, the problem is that, however any of the candidates or even the coalition considers us, the problem is that the defence of the minister and also the placement, the explanation of the interpretation is actually bad, one and the other is bad. And since I've been in this House for quite some time now -- there are some of us here, Battelli and Weber; I think I'm third in my internship -- I can only say that's the problem. Also, the way of communication you can afford by coalition Members, when every interpretation is worse than the previous one without anyone telling you what the problem is, what's worse; it's a little low. We need to face arguments, look at things the way they are, not playing a big role here, whether it's a SMC minister, whether it's SD, or it's from Desus. You just have to judge the quality. Things are going or they're not going in the right direction, I don't think they're going. Nor do they generally go in the right direction, not only in this area; but the problem is that ministers are in some way limited by the way they work, the way they manage the coalition, but also by other things. There are many things not only the Minister is responsible for. If I take the case of the Skofljica bypass, ten years of placement, the government has now written in reply that it is an inappropriate way to establish substitute habitats for two or three animals and that it is still an incorrect methodology to assess the acceptability of interventions to agricultural land. After ten years, this is the government's response, which I received on September 1st. In this government, however, we have three environmental ministers – the current one and two former ones, Erjavec was the minister of the environment and Židan. And then this government shakes down your answers after ten years. Expecting it to be better here is more difficult. Although the Minister has worked very hard, he has drawn up an agreement, one agreement to move things forward. But I'm afraid not. There's a few obstacles that can't be moved. After ten years, some of those who failed to meet the construction of alternative habitats and failed to determine the methodology for evaluation have already been Ph.D. at the Ministry at this time. They probably had time for their doctorates, but they didn't have time to prepare what they were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. After him, Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Franz Jurša. Here you go, Dr. Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, chairman. What to say after this long day. A lot of things have been said, and I will probably repeat myself, because the voice of reason does not have so many arguments that they could be repeated in such variants. The debate itself was a bit boring, as colleague Möderndorfer said. A few were promoted by counterpart Tanko with his performance, age, presence in this national council, where he shared the negative assessments themselves about the work of the opposition and the coalition and the whole country. It appears that too much information can be provided from Democracy and the Reporter and does not see any other encouraging indicators that are publicly available to all citizens. But let's get back to interpolation. According to my assessment, the interpolation is unjustifiable, but in any case, it's too early. As has already been said many times today, there is a revision of the project, which will soon produce results, how the construction of the second track can be optimized and cheaper, and what is the real value to deal with. This will be followed by a draft or proposal for a law that will define the starting point for the construction of the second track and will, inter alia, determine the dynamics of construction or deadlines, the value of the project and what is most interesting for us, this is a financial structure, what will be the share of the country, how many loans will need to be taken, what will be the European funds and what will be the private stakeholders. When we are with private stakeholders, it would probably be nice, which has already been exposed today, if Luka Koper participated as much as possible among these private investors and in general the share of Slovenian private investors would be as high as possible. However, as the Minister has said, there is no special interest in the administration of Luke Koper in participating in such a strategic and important investment. However, it is expected that this investment should be settled by the state from its budget and that Luka Koper should not be mistaken about her other business. We know that public-private partnership is a form that potentially also brings funds from the so-called Juncker Fund. The involvement of private investors is a condition for drawing on these funds. So it could be that Luke Koper's leadership could play a key role in finding the most rational financial structure to build a second track and could play a key role here if this will were on their side. If I sum up, after seeing exactly how the government and Minister Gasperšič plan to set up the project and finance the project and what the implications for the state budget and taxpayers will be, it would certainly be a better time for possible interpretation. Rather, it would have been better if this communication had taken place not at the time of interpretation, but at the time of the debate on the law on the construction of the second track. However, the following events went in a different direction. Otherwise, I have not had the opportunity to take part in the preparation of the interpolation, but if I wanted to interpellate against the minister because he has not done or done something wrong and harmful, I would have waited until all the circumstances were clear enough. In a specific case, this is when this space, which will be devoted to public-private partnership, will be more defined in the financial structure and when, as I said, there will be clear financial implications. However, the following events went in a different direction. On 23 June, interpellation was introduced at the time of the reckoning of certain members, and in particular one of the members of the Porte Koper Supervisory Board with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in public, before the media. And even on this occasion, opposition opposition groups were fighting over who was going to put in the interpolation because they felt that the excitement on the Coast was an opportunity to raise political points. Then what happened, we know. Coordinated cooperation between the administration, the supervisory board and the Luka Koper syndicates and then the Luke prison for three days. Those who were most concerned, in the slogans for Luka Koper, were so aroused by the passions that the work seemed to have taken over power on its own in Luka; and there was a blockade on the entrance to Luka and the scene of the Upstairs of Primorska. Mr Vatovec, the sentence was not illegal or the sentence is not illegal, but it is an illegal blockage of Luke. And that's something that has no basis in any regulation. However, when we talk about the Risen Sea, I do not want to underestimate the concerns of the Primors, it seems that information about what is happening to them has been transmitted in a rather biased or, to say the least, not in an objective way. Certainly, however, it is interesting that calls for dialogue with the government, better put an end to the government, to whom everything needs to be put off and to what needs to be done at a certain time, were intertwined with an additional stirring atmosphere of emergency. It is certainly interesting for a company to talk to its majority owner in this way and argue in front of the media. If someone wants to further promote unrest and poses as a worker protector, it would be good to hear that colleagues from the United Left do not worry about the backdrop of contracts between the administration of Luke Koper and individual external companies that employ holiday workers working black for a few euros a day. These workers are likely to contribute significantly to the solid income of all regular employees in Luka, including administration and supervisors, and, of course, also external stakeholders who cooperate with Luka Koper and hire these workers. It is also important to ask whether the colleagues from the United Left feel that this unmistakable cooperation between trade unions, the administration and the supervisory board and companies working with Luka does not seem somewhat idyllic or unusual to exploit foreign workers. Either they work so well with them, or they may see a model of democratic socialism or direct democracy. Let me remind you that during this period a dictionary was used, which also encouraged violence by members of the United Left. My friend Kordish said on the web, quote, "Peace be sent to the police to break the sentence if they hope. In this case, it will not be carried out by an early election, but by the people's tribunal and lynching." "People would drive him out with villas and put him in front of the tribunal," he later completed his threats to Cerara's response to the event in Luka Koper. That was beautifully published in the media. I wonder if this democratic socialism is based on the United Left, or if it is that constructive debate that is being held in public and in the National Assembly?Oh, my God! Or perhaps it would be worth setting things a little differently, not by perhaps further encouraging rightly concerned Primors to show their revolt in some violent way, which smells like some revolutionary act, which I think was certainly not justified in this case. Let me conclude, with all the unknowns in the project that we are not familiar with yet; as has been announced, we will not be able to achieve this difficult task in the short term, perhaps at the end of the month or at the beginning of the next. However, at least in this part it is useful that we have heard clearly and loudly Minister Gasperšić's commitments on how the project will continue. I'm sure we'll have a lot to talk about when we have the relevant data, and we'll have a lot to discuss his responsibility if he doesn't succeed. And of course, we are all, not only in the opposition, but also in the coalition, interested that the second track project succeeds, that it will start successfully already in this mandate and that it also has real basics, that it will be completed in due course. We will insist on this, there is no distinction between coalition and opposition here, so I call for us to focus in the future on a more constructive debate leading to some common, positive goals. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you, Dr. Matić. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you. First of all, a colleague of Tank's about private investors. He was talking about Piraeus, and I'd step on the home floor and see what's going on with the Ljubljana Airport. Ever since Fraport bought the airport, he hasn't invested a cent in this company, despite all the promises he'll make. As a result, we have lost 17 million European funds already provided for the construction of another passenger terminal. In May this year, they had 9% less passengers than last year, they abolished the Supervisory Board, which means that employees no longer have their own representative in such an institution and so on. We know the aspirations of private investors in such projects. Mate Matić, for the first time, Luka cannot be a private investor because it is simply owned by the majority state. If she invests, her debt automatically reclassifies to public debt, now I repeat it as a good morning to the deaf. Just stop fooling around. Your colleague Zorčič used the story of the IPS earlier. You're listing things again that aren't checked out. We have responded to this with a public statement, and we have also talked about this on the various public financial monitoring commissions that took place at the time. 5. Seven. 2016, final part of the statement: In August 2011, IPS workers rose to protest. They were not supported by Pahor's government; they were not supported by the right opposition; they were not supported by Siol or Finance. They were supported by the Žeravist Union, supported by activists. Present Member Miha Kordish has already correctly defined what the problem is and who benefits from the situation, I quote: "From this all the involved are profited, except the workers themselves. Luke's board can boast of working efficiency, parasitic subcontractors can pick up cream, and the country can do so twice. It's like the majority owner draws hyperprofits, and the statistics look nice to her." And our position on the IPS hasn't changed. This is an unacceptable matter and this matter needs to be handled accordingly. And I repeat, as I told your colleague Zorčič, you come from a party whose president has stated that in a country where we have written down workers' participation in management and also the right to manage public affairs, and this doctor has stated that he does not intend to talk to workers and that workers will not run businesses or countries. So much for that. But as for hearing the Minister's commitments, I haven't heard them today, not a single commitment. We have heard a few changed opinions, some accusations; but we have definitely not heard firm and clear commitments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Prepare Mr Franz Jurša and Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Although some estimates suggest that the nuisance is more boring, it is certain that today this debate was not a waste of time and, as a result, money. When we are talking about one of the country's most important infrastructure investments, which will surely exceed €700 million – at least according to the information available, but probably not the last – it would be at least unwise for the National Assembly not to discuss this with the Minister in one way or another, and for those of us who have been given a mandate to do so to contribute in some way to the image of the construction process of the second track, which, if I understand it, we all agree at least roughly that the country's essential and strategic interest. If these, or less than predicted, 14 hours of debate are the key issue, it is therefore a matter of day whether to finance such an operation from an integrated budget, or to take advantage of the potential of key stakeholders or potential profit holders for the construction of this second track. To sum up very operationally, also Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways. In this country, we have a fiscal rule, with the requirements of the European Commission and our own commitment not to allow ourselves to repeat the Greek or Venezuelan scenario, a limited budgetary potential. We do not want to additionally owe countries, so if we want to finance the second track from the integrated budget, we can only raise taxes. Since we have decided to have a social dialogue, we have agreed, among other things, that we will no longer raise taxes. This option to introduce additional burdens — indirect, direct — to people in this case and to others — I do not know where it will lead. I'm sure he doesn't want any more taxes on the economy, we're in the middle of a crisis, and then a few times we've already raised VAT, and lastly, we've lifted a profit tax with the mini tax reform; and this has to end somewhere. At the same time, in the construction of Port Koper, we have companies owned by the majority state, which we have decided are strategic state investments, which means that they must also be of strategic state interest. And if the strategic state interest is to build a second track, which is strategically important for Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways, these two companies – I suppose, sincerely hope that this is logical – will also participate in the process and relieve Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers, and consequently the economy, which through profits makes the most contribution, that we should again intervene in the fiscal destabilisation of the country. And this framework, which we have reached, and perhaps also through this interpretation, which I have already welcomed as a good opportunity in the introduction to discuss important projects, and I do not really see as an interpolation, has been well exploited today. And even through the Minister's answers, we can see the direction. And this direction is sort of an informal Slovenian logistics holding company. The concession, the only one acceptable because no concession on the pier is acceptable, was granted by this national assembly when we determined which companies are strategic state investments. And we too will have to follow our decisions and know how to operationalize them. And part of this is, Luka Koper must remain a Slovenian company in Slovenian administration, because it is a strategic, geopolitical, national, territorial, if you want, also a national interest. Also because of what my colleague, Mr Han, the head of the parliamentary group, has said earlier, Slovenian railways will have to join the project and probably also through some cross-border partnership to ensure the further development of Slovenian logistics. Since I have run out of time, the third development axis, the energy concept of Slovenia and the other topics I have on the list will turn out on a second occasion. Minister, you're back. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. Scoberne. I give my word to Mr. Franco Jursha. Prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u127	Vice President, thank you for your word. Once again, a nice greeting is valid for everyone in the hall! Since I have relatively little time available, I have substantially changed my debate, which I have prepared gravely, and will start with my intended end. First of all, I must say that I will not talk about those matters which I have mentioned strictly in my position. I will not talk about the second development axis or the third development axis and the construction of the second rail track, because we have heard more or less about this. But I'm going to talk about what one of the discussers said was corrupt. As I estimate that we are talking today about interpolation and that we usually say a lot of things about interpolations, I would like to highlight two things. In my first term, I had the opportunity and went to the construction site of the G1-2 Hajdin–Ormož road, section Gorišnica–Ormož, where I had already seen the beginning of the construction, I also saw the towers of the overpass, the building permit was issued in 2009 with the expected closure of 2013. Minister, you weren't the Minister of Infrastructure back then, I'm aware of that, but this time I have to ask you, because whoever was sitting here isn't here. The construction of the road on the armistice side began with the construction company Vegrad, which collapsed. Then the construction company Primorje continued and collapsed. Archeological excavations were also completed, land was bought, houses were built, people were moved, 10 million euros in tax money were spent; and the road was nowhere. To make matters even more complicated, the following happened. The situation became even more absurd than I mentioned when the railway line of Prague-Hodoš began to be updated. The planned construction of this road resulted in the construction of the subway at the Big Sunday. This could mean that some of the funds in this investment should also be returned because, where it should have happened, this undercarriage did not happen because it was in the plans to build that road that I mentioned a little bit earlier. I'd like to point out one other thing. This time it is a section of road 1303 Križevci-Žihlava, from kilometres 00 to 9.2 kilometers. Minister, I don't expect you to give me the answers to that question today. But I expect you to give it to me in the future. If you don't give me this, I'll send you a question. The Municipality of Križevci prepared project documentation for implementation and reviewed it so that the project is ready for implementation. Now we just need to agree on an agreement, this agreement is in preparation, but things have been going on for a long time. I am aware that there is no money for all the necessary investments in infrastructure; however, priorities should be agreed on, not that some development plans record a year 2015 and then the start of an investment slips slowly to 20, 22, 24. I would ask you to answer this question in the future. As an MEP and as a citizen, I want a good state road in any case; I also want good, stable bridges on state roads. I'm talking about bridges, because you know, in the past, we didn't know how many bridges were closed, and we had the opportunity to drive on just one lane. Now I have no accurate data on how many of these bridges have been repaired, but there are many not yet; at least in my environment where I live, I know exactly that they are not. I also want regulated railways according to European criteria or standards, motorways. It's a big win-win for the place, but this dump isn't a freeway, but it's a fast road, unfortunately. In the past we rushed too fast and wanted to cut the tapes when the elections were; and on this basis we built fast roads instead of highways. Well, a few more words about the electrification of the Prague-Hodos railway line. Minister, this is one example of how the matter is resolved in the field of rail infrastructure. I myself participated in this project in some part, and I am very proud that this has also been arranged in our area. But it's true that one problem has arisen. This problem – others have mentioned it, I am running out of time, I will not mention it again, but this is a solution – we must also resolve it with the ministry covering it. Such projects should take place in Slovenia even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you are the last interviewer to be reported in the regular work. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister Gašperšič, colleagues and colleagues! It seems to me that the Ministry of Infrastructure is the most important resource among all ministries in our country. Why? Because the country is in financial trouble and because our citizens are living worse from day to day. Because the Ministry of Infrastructure has the opportunity to give people a job. However, work can be done in such a way as to stimulate investment of state importance. I have played a little bit of math, compared to 2015 is in all departments’ departments, not only in the infrastructure area, this year less than all investments for 620 million. That means we took people's jobs in the country for 620 million. Do you know what kind of money this is?Oh, my God! What a blow it is for the economy, what a blow it is for the citizens. Not to mention the economic sector in particular. Look at Eurostat's data. Slovenia is different between the last three countries, depending on the month and month, because the biggest construction decline in Slovenia is between 37% and 43%. I'm speaking at the annual level. Maximum decline in the Republic of Slovenia. That's where we share the last, the last, and the last, with Hungary and another country. Look at this data. This is a clear indicator, a very clear signal where we are in this segment because we are in the investment segment. It's not because I'm a construction man by my basic profession, and I'm defending this department, but because people need to be given a job. And this resort has this option. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group have been trying to help the Minister through the drafting of laws. This year we tabled two laws, a law on the construction of transport infrastructure and also a law on the provision of funds for this building of infrastructure of national importance. By means of dedicated means, which have been very precise, clearly specified, which are the means by which this public transport infrastructure could be built. Dear Minister, I resent you for there was no good incentive or intention on the part of the Ministry to support such a proposal. I still believe that this was a good proposal and also a good one. Not to mention many amendments, where we have found that there is not enough money in road and rail transport, we wanted to raise these items with amendments. I also understand that the budget needs to be balanced; of course, it has to be taken somewhere if you want to move to another item. But for the public part, it's no problem to raise the line, but the easiest thing is to take it where it doesn't hurt. But it doesn't hurt to take some kind of investment that won't work. These are painless measures and, on the other hand, we give to the public sector. Look at the data, see how rich it is, how the number of employees in the public sector is growing. These are facts, these are real estimates. Look at the data. If I go specifically to the project of the highest importance, including the financial most difficult, the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper. Dear Minister, I know very well what stage this project took two years ago. And I can also assess what is actually going to be done in two years on such a project. I'm gonna be real, and I'm gonna say not much. I blame you for somehow going to the European call for applications for CEF funds, because it was clear and with certainty that you would fail at this call because the project was not completed to such a stage that any possibility of making this application at the European invitation to tender would be possible. There was no way. I also resent you because we don't have an audit table today. Based on your reply this morning, this information should be received within 15 days, which is also the deadline for the contractor to receive the intended final assessment of this investment and, on this basis, the investment programme can also close the financial structure, which is an absolute condition for the next nomination on the new tender. The new tender was scheduled to take place in the following month, in October. Dear Minister and Mrs Bulcheva, European Commissioner for Transport, I am counting on your total success here unconditionally. If you fail on the next call, then my confidence in you will be lost; because all the conditions are met and the call for tender is also filed, both at the CEF, where the call for tender is open, this is not a call for tender within the national envelope; and the other part, where it is still possible to obtain grants. In short, there are two options. We know that the European Commissioners work in the European Parliament globally for the Union. In fact, they are all absolutely focused and are also working nationally, that is to say for their country. And in this segment, I see a priority in Slovenia, because we have a Commissioner for Transport in the European Parliament. And here I count on unconditional success. If I'm going to go to Luka Koper, I'd say that Luka Koper and all of these events were somehow encouraging the preparers who prepared this interpretation. These events after the change of supervisory boards, after the change of management, I would say political events are not constructive and are not for the benefit of society; especially not a society that does well, which records decisive business results. And this is an incentive to establish some doubts about the work of a minister. Luka Koper also wants her further development. The country is the owner, and we have to ask ourselves, first of all, whether we are the good owner of Luke Koper. And we know that something over 30% is already in second ownership, but the bad 70% is still the owner of the country. We know that there are also some projects, a few steps on hold, long overdue new imports, major imports into Luka Koper. According to Luke Koper, the main problem is state land. Now let us ask ourselves what kind of master we are. The problem is state land. There are also obstacles to the construction of the third pier, which also hinder the production of all the following steps and procedures to expand the development of the port. We have also been able to track from past offers when they wanted to enter as partners, where they made offers that could be increased by more than 100 % in port. Today’s around 22 million tonnes, one offer was that it was possible to increase the transhipment to 43 million tonnes in ten years. The development possibilities of the port are and here we have to step up as a good master to create these development opportunities in the port in the future. Mr. Secretary, I resent your indulgence, because Dars is also in your department, following an unreasonable exchange of supervisory boards and the administration of Dars. And I know that you will say yes in answer – yes, because here is SDH, which manages state assets; but also Dars is a company that improves its business results year after year and also successfully repays outstanding loans. Such exchanges are not for the benefit of the State or the employees. It is evident that political decisions and fundamental differences are at stake. Last year, Dars gave his entire profit to the country on the altar. Now that we've replaced the board, we'll keep the profits company. I'm a proponent to keep a company like Dars always a profit. I am in favour of this because if the company so successfully reprograms its outstanding liabilities, its loans, while building new motorway sections, then I am always in favour of keeping the company's entire profits; but not that the company has to put profits on the altar, in the state budget, because we know that it is 70% for public administration. I'm talking about it. I'm not going to go into every carousel, every little project, but I really need to ask myself now, what are the new projects that have been created in the last two, three years? Do we have any new projects?Oh, my God! I am not talking about the rehabilitation that has been highlighted today, the isolation of the beach in Hrastnik or Trbovje and the rehabilitation of this. I am talking about major projects with spatial placement and the preparation of the next steps. I understand that in two years it is not really possible to carry out these projects. It will be necessary to develop a timeline for an additional highway section of Postojna-Yelšana, where I do not know the time zone, I do not know the progress of this important section, which is still missing. Today we have heard that priority is in the coast of Koper-Dragon and that the project from Jagoda to Lucija is no longer among the priorities. I agree, it is not all at once, but also this section of Koper-Dragon will need to make a timeline to know where we are, what we are doing and when we will reach the goal; especially in spatial placement. It is also a problem of spatial placement in the work of Murska Sobota, where it is also related to the modernisation of the electricity of Pragersko-Hodoš, where there are problems with this project, which was worth little less than 500 million. I also know and know that this project was not under the Ministry; but – are we the masters or are we not?Oh, my God! Such procedures should be expedited, harmonised inter-resortmentally and these procedures should not be an obstacle to such a major project as the Prague-Hodos project. In short, the work and activity is a great deal of respectable minister, it will be necessary to tighten your sleeves so that you will have my constructive trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Žnidar. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister of Infrastructure and the representative of the motioner of interpretation will be given the floor. First of all, I give the floor to Dr. Peter Gasperšić, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me at the end of this thorough debate to stress once again that your vote can be based on the actual state of affairs. Interpellators state four reasons for my dismissal. I hope that in the introduction as well as in the answers, I have shown convincingly enough that I am not in any way blocking the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper, but that we have placed the second track responsiblely among the priorities, accepted the strategic documents, obtained all the necessary land and permits, taken care of the complementary infrastructure and have already practically started building it with the extraction track. As I said before, the question was never, second track — yes or no?; but always only in what time dynamics and with what financial structure. Today I am answering these two key questions: with the public-private partnership to be established within the framework of 2TKK and with the start of construction in 2017. Secondly, you'll have to take my word that I've never illegally influenced Dars or Luke Koper. These unfounded suspicions will have to be proved by those who spread them. There's only one thing I know. If such pressures were to occur, the overseers would have to report them immediately; not that they came to the public with them only when their chairs were swung. I hope that, in my introduction and also in my replies, I have shown convincingly enough that in my work I am not trying to privatise the state infrastructure; rather, in accordance with the strategies adopted, we are updating the laws by allowing for changes that are necessary for the greater competitiveness of individual companies, such as the subsidiaries of the Slovenian Railways. Connecting a public-private partnership with privatisation is purely misleading. This method of financing construction does not in any way presuppose the disposal of strategically important infrastructure. And I hope that, in the introduction and also in the reply, I have demonstrated convincingly enough that the modernisation and electrification of the railway line of Prague-Hodoš has been successful since it was carried out in the expected financial and timeframes. Therefore, honourable Members, I strongly reject all four points of interpolation, but I understand the above indications more than the continuation of the political struggle of individual stakeholders rather than the professional debate. At the same time, I fully understand that the National Assembly is both – a place of political and professional debate. I will always insist on professional work and firm arguments in front of you and in the day-to-day work of my team. This is the only way we can count on the confidence of you, Members and Members, and we are all citizens and citizens together. For your trust, I thank you very much in advance and sincerely. At the conclusion of today's debate, let me also thank all the co-workers in the ministry and other services who have participated and supported me in preparing for this interpretation. Thank them very much, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u132	The text is delivered by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, representative of the interpellationary speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you. I think that, first of all, a summary of today's debate must be made because it is partly intentional and partly because of the different interpretations, the red thread is largely lost. In the United Left, we oppose the Minister in particular because he forces or forces with the idea of a public-private partnership project for the second track. This project can only be completed in two ways. It is most likely that there will be no execution at all, so that it will not be built; or that we will overpay the citizens, twice. The fact that this project is almost impossible to implement also shows that no similar line has been built in the European Union with a public-private partnership. We're talking about a mixed or cargo line. In the next six years, the government plans EUR 6.8 billion of investment in infrastructure and only a public-private partnership is envisaged for the second track, i.e. a form allowing private investors to enter. In this way, in our view, the second track will probably not be built and this will not only harm Luke Koper and Slovenian railways, as we have listened to today; it will harm about four hundred companies – Slovenian companies – I stress if possible, this is essential – that create two percent of our GDP. That is why, of course, they do not primarily hold the charge of Members of the Modern Centre Party that we are here defending the interests of the administration of Luke Koper or any other private interest. All we want and what we want with this interpolation is to defend public infrastructure. We demand that the port of Cyprus and its transport position serve the citizens, not foreign capital, as suggested by the clues accompanying the second track story since Minister Gasperšić's term of office. If the Minister is the first to carry out such a project in Europe, the problem is that the project will be very expensive or twice as expensive as if it were financed by public funds. That there be no mistake, it will be more expensive for us, for citizens and citizens, for taxpayers; not for anyone else. We are talking about a weight that will, of course, be passed on to citizens and citizens. Private partners, on the other hand, will overtake us, and it is not by any means true that private parties will relieve taxpayers, which is in some ways the minister stressed. These individuals are either foreign countries or foreign companies, in particular port corporations, which do not and do not intend to act as charities. Minister Gašperšič accepts lobbyist corporations or he personally offers management of our infrastructure to foreign countries, in particular Hungary. Let me explain once again the government funding formula for the second track, because apparently not everyone heard it or wanted to hear it. 2TKK, which will be in majority private ownership, will receive a concession for the construction and management of the second track; the utility, I stress, is still negligible for the second track. It's not a highway that users pay, it's a project that someone else has to finance. Therefore, it is up to the private investor to ensure profitability, and here we, citizens, enter into the equation with our budget and public infrastructure. From the budget, we will pay 2TKK a subsidy, which is called a compensation for availability, and this will directly increase our public deficit. And so much for the story of compliance with the fiscal rule. Let me warn you that Dars or Luka Koper are not receiving any compensation for availability, on the contrary. Luka Koper pays the concession fee to the State and also to the municipalities in which it stands.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u134	Is it possible to ensure silence, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you, Franjo. Since the availability subsidy will not be sufficient, certain related transactions are envisaged. I quote the Minister's reply to Mr Ferluga: "To the private investor, concessions for the construction and management of additional transhipment capacities that can still be built in Luka Koper." So something will be divided. And we know that on 29 June, the Minister sent a letter to the Government informing him that his ministry was preparing a modification of the concession contract with Luka Koper, so that new concessions could be granted at the port. This, Your Honor, is business. And if we add up the availability subsidy and this tied business, we will pay citizens more than we would pay through public investment. We'd pay more for two reasons, for the first time, because capital is expecting a margin, in short profit. The state does not charge itself such a margin. Secondly, the public-private partnership is more expensive because private entities are indebted at a higher rate than the country. The only credible estimate of the funding costs we have shows that the final cost of public investment would be 1.3 billion and the cost of private investment 2.7 billion, that is to say 1: 2. If we go into a public-private partnership, we'll overpay this investment twice. I repeat, this route is not a highway, it is not paid by users with tolls, it will be paid by citizens. And we're going to pay it with tied businesses, with concessions, with the public infrastructure that our state-owned companies currently have. For example, for an existing track for which 2TKK would also be awarded a concession, it is currently used by Slovenian Railway – Infrastructure, i.e. if this goes to the management of 2TKK under majority private ownership, Slovenian Railways – Infrastructure will lose the concession to manage the first track. Do not deceive, not say that no one will lose anything, but even the existing concessions; that is, concessions that exploit our common good and will now bring rent to a private or foreign country rather than to the Republic of Slovenia. And once again, I will quote Minister Restoration, "public-private partnership is a more expensive option". Minister Gaszperšič promised a lot of things to save his chair before the interpellation. He promised that, for example, the Markovec tunnel would be exempted from the toll system, even though he claimed that it would be at least illegal last year. He also promised the construction of the Bled Oblast; he did not promise, at least not publicly, what employees in Luka Koper and most Slovenian citizens require of him. We demand the assurance that Luka Koper will retain all concessions in the Kore port. Prime Minister Cerar and the Minister have never officially provided this. The last official position of Minister Gasperšić, which was received by Members on 2 September, was that concessions remain, I quote: "With the law, 2TKK, d.o.o. will be granted a concession for the construction and management of the new railway connection to the second line of Divaca-Koper, the management of the existing track and additional pre-shipment facilities." End of quote. What does that mean? This means that the company 2TKK, which will be in majority private ownership, is very likely even owned by foreign countries, will fully control the only railway connection between Kopra and the world for at least thirty years. Can you imagine an Austrian or German government granting a concession to manage their strategic lines to a foreign company?Oh, my God! I don't believe it. Austria and Germany want to control foreign infrastructure and, of course, ours. To this end, Deutsche Bahn wanted to buy Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways in 2007. To this end, a letter of intent was also signed between the Slovenian Railways and the Austrian Federal Railways or the OBB. Minister Gasperšič replied today and this is a change or another modified view that concessions will not be granted, provided that Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways participate in the project. This promise, in my opinion, is as empty as the promise of Markovec and the Blaze bypass. Why am I saying that? First of all, we don't really know what Minister Gasperšič is proposing. The draft law is not ready, although the proposal should be completed on 30 March following a decision by the Government. The reports of the Interdepartmental Group for the second track are marked internally. Minister Gaszperšič has only presented and defended three different models in the last half of the year. Firstly, he advocated the award of concessions for the third pier in Luka Koper in February; the second model presented in early August was the defence of the award of concessions for undeclared – this must be highlighted – trans-shipment capacity, and the third time, today, the undeclared participation of Luke Koper and the Slovenian Railways in this public-private partnership. Secondly, today, Minister Gasperšič has also offered for the first time a public opportunity not to grant concessions, but today's promise is contrary to the Prime Minister's position of 11 July. This promise today is also contrary to the views of the answers given by Minister Gasperšič since we asked him questions, and we finally received them three weeks ago. So a man who practically changes his mind overnight can't be trusted. Thirdly, and this is also essential, the minister now says that concessions will not be granted if cooperation between Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways and the country is possible. These three entities are supposed to recapitalise 2TKK, but of course this is impossible. Let the Minister of Public Affairs in some way, if he can, explain how Slovenian Railways will get capital for this investment if they are over-indebted; and in some ways we all know it. Wasn't it the main reason for the sale of Slovenian railways – Freight transport to Austrian state railways in that Slovenian railways were over-indebted. An additional sign that this is another of the minister's bluffs is also his statement from today's meeting that they are still negotiating with Hungary for investment in 2TKK. Also try to explain why we need Hungarian state capital if the capital is to be contributed by Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways. In short, there is only one concrete plan for the participation of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways on the second track; and this is probably all known logistics holding company, that is to say privatisation of our infrastructure. This proposal was submitted on 18 December by Slovenian Railway Director Dusan Mes. This proposal foresees nothing more than that Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways pay foreign investors flats for the second track and the Republic of Slovenia pays ecological compensation. And at the end of Slovenia, when the stories are over, buy the second track with its shares in Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways. It's kind of a masterplan offered by the minister today. We, as far as this is concerned, are not naive, since 2007 Deutsche Bahn and similar companies have proposed a similar or similar way of cooperating. All these proposals do not foresee anything other than privatisation; even more so, they provide for the sale of state-owned enterprises. To conclude, perhaps as a hint of disappointment, which is not. I think it is very important, as my colleague Jurš said in his presentation, that in supporting the coalition partners to the Minister, so that they will vote against the interpretation, it is a matter of maintaining political stability. I think that this is the main point of today's interpolation on the side of the coalition, not as the leader of the largest parliamentary group said, that this could be a forum for listening to hints, but, above all, a forum for maintaining and maintaining the coalition for another two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u136	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the Interpellation Speaker, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec and Minister Peter Gasperšič, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. In this case, they will get the word as the last, first the Minister and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes. The word is Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much, President. I could perhaps repeat the questions a little bit more briefly and very concretely from before, but only bare facts. I would like to ask the Minister how, from what I understand, I hope that he supports the third developmental axis against Celje and against the Koroška variant of F2-2, this is called Šentrupert-Velenje; not Arja village-Valenje, which has been established for centuries. In fact, F2-2, I'll just count a few differences, there's no legal basis. Location in space for variant F6, this is said in Arja village, 2004 development strategy, transport strategy 2015, principles of the Paris environmental conference. The space accommodation of Šentrupert-Velenje goes through the best agricultural land and would destroy 119 hectares of land with an average rating of 60 to 90. It would also destroy some irrigation systems. According to the classic variant of Arja Vas–Velje would destroy about 13 hectares of land with a rating of 35. The first variant means the destruction of the cultural landscape, the second variant has been going on for centuries in an escaped spatial corridor. The first option should be built entirely at once; secondly, phased construction is possible. The first option would be after the calculation of 240 million plus VAT, the second option of 100 million plus VAT. So it's said that we have 140 million here, for example, for the second track or something. First variant, demanding construction, 4 to 6 years, second variant year and a half. The first option is the social part, the economics, 120 broken buildings, of which 43 are residential; the second variant of nine broken buildings, of which three apartment houses. If we're just comparing these numbers that I've just listed, I don't see any reason why the government still supports the F2-2 option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u138	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister Peter Gasperšič, I only expected you to answer the questions raised by both the opposition and the coalition MPs. It has been a feeling for quite some time that we are at the point of the agenda of questions from Members and Members, but it is then right that ministers are also answering. We have been sent here from our people who ask us questions; and now we see that we are somehow second-rate. You're probably going to answer the coalition in some way to four eyes, anyway. We are left without answers because we are second-rate Members, who are in opposition. It kind of hurts. What should I tell the people in the field who ask me? I had a concrete question, Mr Minister, when and how to proceed with the rapid road Ormož-Hajdin. Indeed, the local committee of the Modern Centre Party is trying to obtain dates, coordinate dates between the mayors or municipalities and you. Interestingly, this is done by a local committee of a party, but sumarum sumarum is very much appreciated. I have learned something from this and Nova Slovenija will also begin to coordinate terms with you. In particular, I would like to ask you for a time when the mayors of the municipality of Odranci, Beltinci, Murska Sobota may contact you because of the tractor path where people die. 2TKK, d. o. o., I do not understand that this company would be established for a public-private partnership, because for a public-private partnership we have different forms, namely, we have contractual public-private partnerships, here we are talking about concessions of construction or concessions of services; or status, institutional public-private partnerships, but here we are talking about partnership with the creation of a new legal entity. 2TKK, d. o. o., is therefore a new legal person and I understand that the founder here will now be a private partner. It's true that he can come back and recapitalize the company, I guess that's what he means. I have listened carefully to you and I agree with you when you say that infrastructure will not be privatised, it will remain state-owned, even if the construction of the second track will take place on the basis of a public-private partnership. Of course, I agree. But once you say that it is some organism, for some logical whole made up of Luka Koper, d. d., – it is not the sea, it is not the coast, it is not the surface – and another track. And when we put this together, Luca Koper is like a heart, the second track is like a live drain or a water main. It sucks. It's got to be together. And of course that's how the investor will come. This is how we understand this private partner in New Slovenia, because there will be no one else. And it would be good if you could explain this to all of us opposition Members. Of course, you will receive coalition support today. Interpellation has a very good effect. In some ways, the coalition consolidates and maintains political stability. This is often what Mr Cerar is talking about. Political stability is fine, it is a good thing, but once again it is necessary to say when citizens, taxpayers will receive dividends from political stability. And secondly, there was talk of what we did wrong in some governments, when we were with them, New Slovenia, I was talking about Prague-Hodos, which was when this project started. But it pains me a little that I hear over and over again that we made a fast road to Hungary. Those who say this must go from the village of Long Village, Lendava, Lower Lakoš, Gornji Lakoš and tell people that they have received the highway too quickly to continue to suffer 5,000 trucks in transit per day. Whoever's saying that actually wants all of Pomura badly. Since you will remain, I sincerely wish you many successes, and I also once again expect the realization of our request and the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u140	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, let me go back to the Divača-Koper project; you are committed to your resignation if the construction of the second track project of Divač-Koper begins in the second year. Your Honor, I'm asking you here for correctness. We both know that today you can prepare a call for preparatory work and within three months you can start the preparatory work. We have to be realistic. But the money is already at 2TKK, and let me tell the viewers what this shortcut means. This is a shortcut for a state-owned society that will run this project to build the second track of Divac-Koper, and there is already money. We need to be correct because we know that the parts we're prepared can start as soon as possible. So much for tying the beginning of work to this confidant. I would also point out a very important segment that has been dragging for an extremely long time, namely the placement of the third development axis from the A1 to Velenje motorway, where there is actually no determination. We know that spatial placement is a long-term process. We also know how many initiatives there are on these, on those, on those, on the other, on the third, on the fourth. As an expert, I trust the profession to collect the best option that will be most acceptable for all stakeholders in that environment and for the country as well. I'm running out of time stamps. This is essential. Sooner or later, I will ask you a question from the Member States about the progress that will be made with this project. However, it is not like we are putting it back into the initial phase, which has happened several times before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u142	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, chairman. What were we going to say with this interpolation? I agree with that. I could be better. First of all, no one goes into this investment like we're supposed to. Secondly, in a year, the Minister has replaced a whole series of often conflicting statements. Even if we went to a public-private partnership, for example, some company of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of China that bought the port of Naples. I wouldn't want to finance such a country, I didn't purposely tell this story because the serious country that ; colleague Han was honest, everything else we've already destroyed, you are. [[…]] If this society were politically mature, these people would no longer be in Parliament, even me in this case if they did all this. And because we're not going to destroy what we have, what he listed, this interpolation was necessary. We now have some very strange stories, statements within the coalition, because we – the opposition are still irresponsible and excessive and so on. The Minister says that the debate of interpolation was fine, in SD they say the same, in Desus too, and the modern centre party says that somehow without connection as Han told them; the world did not start with them, and somehow it will not end. Now, about boredom, if boring people are involved in the debate, it's boring, but you're probably a little too obsessed with the yellow media; because it's not the intention of interpolation to have a nice time. Turn on some TV. The music used to be when I was talking. In this interpolation we did not touch, you spread it, I will not tell which wines should be laid in Maribor otherwise; you spread and added pots. I agree here with Janji that Luka is not only Primorska and that the cargo that gets over the Kraška Edge does not disappear. We didn't talk about what kind of cargo, how much cargo, how we're going to transport it, who's going to do it. We have not touched at all, and I may write down by the end of the term if he does not resign, 50 pages of interpretation against the same Minister on public passenger transport. Bus traffic is overpaid, thanks to some of the previous ones that you haven't fixed. I do not come any faster in Budapest because of this route, we have no connection with the train on the Italian fast train network; since most Members are driving you along highways, we would like ministers to drive a little faster, you do not use public passenger transport. It's a topic that we should certainly start. The latest information is the optimisation of the second track. People who learn about it say that it is necessary to change the building permit. The minister now says he's not; we'll probably be back in some kind of rift. And Jani also pointed out some other important facts, you would, of course, stop hearing them because they do not answer you. The Hearings are also needed to prepare the person who comes to the ministerial office to perform this function so that he cannot just slap himself like in a tavern. You think I'm a slapper. You know, I apologize too many times abroad for this, especially in the Modern Centre Party about other companies and countries. Mrs. Koleša about Switzerland today. Although I'm not proud, Switzerland has some butter on its head. But colleague Murgel will go to the Interparliamentary Union soon to Geneva and have to answer some questions. That's not funny. Comrade Brglez, please let me teach these fellow workers one more time. But if you have a party president who says - oh, we made the wire for Croatia. Whatever we think of Croatia, Mother is Croatian; these are our neighbours. Also, this ease with which you talk about the second track, whatever it is, shows that you are not in favour of these shoes, you are not in favour of this profession, which you have reduced to the level of the profession, you who have destroyed everything before. This is the problem of Slovenia and we need to solve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u144	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u145	The fact is that the Minister has decided and decided firmly to build a second track with a public-private partnership. Not only did he threaten the realisation of this project, but he is turning himself into very risky waters. As he acknowledges for himself, in this way no rail freight is built in Europe. It also acknowledges that we do not have any experience in Slovenia with the public-private partnership for infrastructure. If I shorten, the minister promises that within a good one year, the first in Europe will carry out such a project, which will at least cost taxpayers. We promise that, and we don't believe it from the Minister's mouth. And even after this debate, which even part of the coalition recognises, it is clear that this project has not been adopted for private investors, unless, of course, we provide them with budgetary subsidies and promise them additional tied-up transactions. Although the government is constantly deceiving what these connected businesses are, what their essence is, it is clear that foreign logistics companies are only interested in capacity in Luka Koper and, of course, in visiting terminalists at the Ministry. And if they get them, it'll be either privatisation or concession. That is why two, I repeat, of the largest companies involved in port activities were visiting Minister Gasperšić; of course, for the purpose of lobbying. What will be the goal of this, we can only imagine. Interpellation will not be voted out, it was a fact that was already known this morning; but we have achieved at least something, the Minister has taken a step back today. Before an hour ago, he stated that the concession would not be provided that Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways would participate in a public-private partnership. Look, he gave up concessions. Three weeks ago, he defended the concessionists. Minister Gasperšić's promise, which is in direct contradiction with what he said a few weeks ago before this Parliament, and also with what Prime Minister Cerar presented in July, clearly shows that this promise too cannot be persuaded. Otherwise, it sounds nice, but in fact it would not be a public-private partnership, but a partnership between the state and state companies. The minister's changing his mind the way he changes his shirts. In the last six months, this is what we have heard today, the third model it proposes. In February we talked about the third pier, later we talked about some undefined concessions for pre-shipment activities, today we are talking about the cooperation of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways. This promise does not drink water because it is not feasible. It is an empty promise and therefore there are three reasons. The first is that the Minister said in the debate today that talks with Hungary are still taking place. I repeat the question: Why would we still be negotiating with Hungary if the investment in 2TKK were to be carried out by state-owned companies? It's a clear sign that there's another minister's bluff that he's not buying. The second reason, Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways will be very difficult to finance the project. On the one hand, Luka Koper is burdened with already planned investments of EUR 300 million over the coming years; Slovenian railways are over-indebted and are not even in a position to be in debt. And that's why her subsidiaries are being sold. Now the third reason is that even the OECD study commissioned by the Ministry acknowledges that there is a high risk that debt from 2TKK will be included in public debt. So the study commissioned by the Minister speaks precisely about what the Minister warns – if 2TKK is owned by the state and two state-owned companies, this debt will certainly be credited to the public debt. We're sure it's not even necessary, and it wouldn't be fatal, but it's not essential right now. On the other hand, it is essential that the Minister, on the one hand, promises something that, on the other hand, says that it is not actually possible and that it violates the Stability Pact. When he suggests it himself, it is not difficult; but when opponents have proposed alternative funding branches, here I am thinking mainly of Dars, it is chronic proof that there is no alternative; and therefore these promises are unworthy. So there's no reason for us to step away from this interpolation. The Minister has acted as a scapegoat today, and of course he will save his own skin, but I warn you, one day a draft law will come into this National Assembly to define the public-private partnership. I believe that will be the time for many. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u146	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u147	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u148	Dear President of the National Assembly, Sir Milan, I should actually be giving you a reminder right now, but the Rules of Procedure don't allow me to do that. That's not funny, dear colleagues. Is it Parliament or is it Plauderei? You are screaming – the temple of democracy, and now you are preventing the normal conclusion of this interpolation. Milan, do you want me to behave as your Members did for the rest of this regular session?Oh, my God! And if thou wilt warn me, I will do something in this room: but this is not a threat, but a limit is a limit. I propose an interruption by 10 p.m. because obviously, with the exception of the United Left and some experienced Members, they remain unable to hold such a concentration, and then let us proceed with the meeting. And I'm asking you to follow the rules of procedure, because you have to ensure peace and the normal course of this session, which you know a lot more than I do. Because after two years, I've had enough of this, full suitcase. Or I ask you to step down and let someone else take over the leadership of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u149	We had to hear this because there was no peace in the hall. I agree with the intent of this, there was no peace after all the attempts of a nice talk to calm down. I think we all deserved this reminder together, not just me, because I tried to calm them down. This time I am making exactly this procedural proposal. We have thus concluded the debate on interpolation and are moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellations propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly shall, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, extend its non-trust to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšič. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. If an untrustworthy person is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Respectable coalition MPs and MPs who put their heads in the sand, the so-called nou effect, but while you're putting your head in the sand, you always have your ass out there. Believe me, this can hurt a lot. So that you don't say that the interpolation was boring, something different for the end. We listened to the debates mainly on the basis of the proposal's discreditation. We have heard interesting things, among other things, colleague Dolinšek said that you would respond within a set time frame of civil initiative. You know, Members of Parliament, you're not a lawyer who's going to be in charge of the base within the prescribed time limit. We have heard from Mr Möderndorfer that the government will sooner or later accept responsibility. You were a member of many governments, when did any other government accept any responsibility?Oh, my God! Mr Matić had much to say over some kind of democratic socialism; for you do not understand if-item if, if he will. The mother tells the child if you hold on to a hot spruce, it'll burn you. Cause and effect, my dear, we too will be victims of cause and effect. What Kordish said was not a threat, it was – If the President breaks the sentence, he will take it to the people's tribunal. Cause and effect. And today we accept something that will make us very warm. So I know that once again we in the United Left will be one of the few, perhaps even the only, who will support the interpolation we have put in, but in the long run, at least we will know that we have a clean face. Today would be better than a few months from now, but no one will take responsibility, no fear of that. But it's also important that you know what you're up for and what you're up to after the bells ring and cingle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u151	There are 83 Members and Members present, 13 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] I find that the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gaspersic, was not voted untrustworthy. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, this is a re-decision on the law on burial and burial activities. The State Council is at the 22nd extraordinary session of the 20th. Seven. 2016 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again on the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act before being declared. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Jerne Verbic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! As part of the legislative procedure for the adoption of the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities, the Council of State has not already supported the proposal for a law on the basis of the proposed concept of the arrangements for funeral activities whereby the funeral activity, with the exception of the provision of a 24-hour on-call service, is left to the market. Since the final drafting of the text of the law did not take into account his comments, which also followed the warnings of all municipalities of Slovenia, the Council of State requests that it be decided again by the National Assembly. The Council of State, in conjunction with Article 140 of the Constitution, recalls the Law on Local Self-Government, which, in its 21st Article, includes the regulation and care of local public services and, in particular, the organisation of funeral and funeral management. While there remains a burial activity involving the management and management of burial sites under the jurisdiction of municipalities, the funeral activity, with the exception of the 24-hour duty on-call service, is left to the free market, although it is an original municipal task and the provision of services of public interest. As the Constitutional Court has explained in several rulings, the relationship to the dead is one of the fundamental civilisational issues and, therefore, there is a strong public interest in the normative regulation of the area of burial and burial activities, which requires the State to protect a certain civilisation level as regards the treatment of the dead. The Council of State stresses that the organisation of funeral activities is the original responsibility of the municipalities and should therefore leave the law to the decision on how to carry out a funeral activity which is not defined by law as a compulsory economic service, such as a 24-hour on-call service, municipalities and their bodies, which can be defined as an economic public service or leave the market. In this way, they would also be held accountable for the way funeral services are carried out, which must be provided in a permanent and smooth manner. Since funeral activities are now different in the municipalities, some have better experience in the provision of such services in the context of the economic public service and others in the framework of market activities, it would be essential that the legal regime is more open, more viable and that it leaves the municipalities to regulate this area in accordance with their traditions and local customs. The State Council notes that the private sector has shown great interest in the possibility of getting paid for funeral activities; whereas there is no interest in the burial activity, which must provide the conditions for carrying out funeral activities; as it only costs the management and management of burial sites. The State Council points out, however, that the law imposes new financial obligations on municipalities, since they would no longer have the possibility of covering the costs of the activities of managing and managing burial sites for the market part of the funeral activity. It should be borne in mind that carriers of quality and development of funeral activities are generally public undertakings which achieve significantly lower prices than private companies. In the economic service, the price is determined by the municipal council, not only by its height, but also by what can be charged. If a funeral activity is carried out in the open market, private funeral companies may take advantage of the position of relatives of the deceased on a number of occasions, deceiving and adding unnecessary services. Moreover, the potential profits of public companies from market activities are returned to citizens, not only through lower prices of funeral services and the coverage of losses in burial activities, but also through investments in burial infrastructure. On the basis of the above, the Council of State proposes that the National Assembly reject the law and thus the unacceptable concept of the regulation of funeral activities, which falls under the original jurisdiction of the municipalities in accordance with the applicable administrative arrangements. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u153	The request was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the parent of the labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik. [[She's not here.]] In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposaler of the law. Mr Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u154	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me once again to say a few words about the proposed law. Before you is again the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities, which you adopted in mid-July 2016. The reason for the re-examination is the negative opinion of the State Council, which disagrees with the proposed concept of funeral arrangements, whereby the funeral activity, with the exception of the provision of a 24-hour on-call service, is left to the market. In doing so, the Council of State draws attention to the question of constitutional consistency of the proposed concept of funeral arrangements and refers to Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the related Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government. The government disagrees with the opinion of the Council of State. Allow me to explain further the reasons why the reform of existing legislation is necessary, as well as some responses to the concerns of the State Council. First of all, let me remind you that the law in force governing funeral and burial activities adopted in the system of different socio-economic arrangements has been adopted, and therefore its individual solutions no longer fit. Inadequate and sometimes outdated legislation has led to different interpretations of the law in force, causing different arrangements for funeral and burial activities across local communities. Therefore, the municipal decrees by which municipalities under the Law on Local Self-Government lay down the ways and conditions for carrying out funeral and burial activities are often not in accordance with that law. This is also evident from the audit report of the Court of Auditors of November 2014, since between 2009 and 2012, only 55 and 26 % of the municipalities had defined burial and funeral activities as compulsory economic public service in their decrees. The new law will remove obsolete legislation and those problems in practice, while trying to comply with the European guidelines and requirements of the Court of Auditors for the renovation and unification of funeral and burial activities. Allow me a few more answers to the key concerns that have been raised in the State Council. First of all, with regard to the opinion of the Council of State that the proposal is contrary to Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government and constitutes an unacceptable intervention in the autonomy of local communities. It should be pointed out here that the proposed law in relation to the Local Community Act is a later law, while at the same time it is a system law that regulates the whole area of funeral and burial activities and has been able to regulate funeral activities in a different way than has been regulated so far. In addition, municipal public undertakings are not prohibited from carrying out funeral activities under conditions and in the manner laid down in the proposal for a law and competition is allowed. The Government also considers that the proposal for a law is not contrary to Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that it is within the jurisdiction of the municipalities of local affairs which the municipality can regulate on its own and which concern only the inhabitants of the municipality. Funeral activity does not apply only to the population of the municipality, so the bill provides standards, standards and supervision that will be applied uniformly at the state level. The government also disagrees with the opinion of the State Council that the proposal for a law imposes new financial obligations on municipalities. Here too, the bill follows the Court of Auditors’ opinion that funeral and burial activities are not one-off activities, but are two separate activities, which must also be dealt with by law. In doing so, however, the bill allows the municipality to establish in the cemetery order a funeral fee for the execution of a funeral at a particular cemetery, allowing it to raise additional funds for the efficient management of the cemetery. The government also emphasises that the proposal for a law on funeral activities follows a free economic initiative and the provision of material goods on the market. These principles are introduced by the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution and are now valid constitutional principles on which the regulation of free competition on the market is also based. However, in order to be able to protect the public interest as a civilizational achievement in funeral activities in the open market, other European countries and funeral companies that have been engaged in funeral services on the market in Slovenia for more than 20 years have made it clear. Public interest insurance, health and piete protection are therefore provided for in the proposal for a law. Let me stress once again, the single state-level implementation regime and the rules of Piette and the treatment of the deceased, the uniform regulation of the minimum conditions for the execution of funeral activities, the elements of the basic funeral and the highest price cap are also set out here. Let me finish. Once again, in the drafting of this proposal, we have sought the widest possible compromise with the various stakeholders. I believe that the bill is a good, balanced, clearly delimiting the market part of the public, protecting public interest in all key areas. Therefore, honourable Members, I propose that you once again support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u155	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. I hope there's at least a little peace until I tell you what I have to say. In the United Left, we voted against the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act at all stages of the treatment so far, and this time we will oppose it. Why? Since the law is wrongly laid down, there is another area of liberalisation where public interest is clearly expressed and should be at the outset. Funeral and burial activities certainly need regulation and regulation. Can you guarantee peace, please! Liberalisation of funeral services will not have a positive effect except for some companies that carry out this activity. It is not possible to understand the law differently from the fact that the government of Mr Mir Cerar is pursuing the interests of a lobby or is blindly convinced of the possible free market. Probably both. The Funeral and Funeral Activities Act has been in force since 1984. Activities have been defined as community activities of particular social importance. The late arrival of capitalism, if I may say so, has brought about a system of economic public services. Despite the change in the system, it was clear – public interest is in the area of funeral services and in the cemetery area in the first place. The main problem with this proposal is the commercialisation of all funeral services, except the provision of 24-hour duty. When family members face death, they often do not look at prices and costs. In this case, money is often secondary to those in a difficult financial situation. However, it is certainly not the money of secondary importance for the operators. The public interest is not only about the fifth to the deceased, it is also about the attitude towards the relatives, the attitude towards the entire community whose member was deceased. At the same time, public interest also stems from the fact that the funeral is a high cost and for many it means deepening social distress. Let's not forget, by the beginning of 2015 insurance companies had the right to a funeral, one-off cash assistance. Today, this is just a social transfer for some of the poorest in this society and country. The bill is also controversial in terms of interference with the powers of local self-government, as explained by the rapporteur of the State Council. The reasons why the Ministry and the coalition, or part of the coalition, seek to defend change do not justify conceptual changes in the treatment of the dead, which makes such an arrangement legal and systemic and also constitutionally controversial, especially social and social harm. To conclude the quote from the 2000 Constitutional Court judgment, I quote: "It is an activity that is not available on the open market for reasons of petet, scientific and sanitary care." End of quote. The government of Mira Cerar also decided to allow the dead to forge private profits. Therefore, in the United Left of the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act we will not support, because we do not support, quote again, "trafficking with corpses" as the essence of this law, journalist Del, has sincerely expressed to pain. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u157	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u158	Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Since the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act was adopted in 1984 in the previous Social Regulations, in Novi Slovenije, when the new Funeral and Funeral Activities Act was adopted, we stressed the need for a thorough overhaul of this area. Not only because this activity needs to be built on new foundations, but also because this area requires a broad consensus of all stakeholders, including taking into account local customs and the principle of the piette to the deceased and their relatives. Despite the fact that in New Slovenia we attach the proposal to leave part of the funeral activity to the market and that the burial activity remains a municipal public service, we now oppose the law. But the reasons remain the same. Provision of a 24-hour on-call service, which as part of a funeral activity is carried out as a compulsory municipal economic service and covers every transport from the place of death to the cooling facilities of the public service provider or health institution. They cannot decide on this transport or choose the operator; they are only the payers of this transport, so they should have the choice, who and how this transport will be carried out. As a compulsory economic public service, the 24-hour service should only be provided for intervention services from the place of death, i.e. in the event of accidents or sudden death. Another reason is the lack of respect for the will of the deceased and their relatives regarding the way in which they last celebrated. Even though the government, as one of the key principles of the law, cites the fifth to the deceased, it does not want to follow the unwritten human rule that their last will must be respected, especially as to burials or the way of glory. And if the deceased wants the farewell to be done in his home, at his home, which represented all life’s milestones from birth to death, his will must be respected. In particular, in a rural area where homes and households still have a different meaning than in cities, different local customs still exist, where the city has a special reputation for the deceased. The law in force on burial and burial activities and funeral arrangements provides that the way of burial and the funeral ceremony shall be carried out in accordance with the will of the deceased. It also states that the dead are normally stored in a deathbed or exceptionally at home, even though there is a mortuary tower prescribed at the cemetery. Thus, the law in force respects the last will of the deceased, while the new law expressly denies that the dead would lie at home, even if the deceased had died at home and his family had arranged for him at home. The amendment of New Slovenia, which would allow this, was unfortunately not adopted. The bill is also opposed by all representative associations of local communities: the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and even the ZDUS; otherwise, for entirely different reasons because they fear that the free market will have the very negative consequences of carrying out the funeral activity, particularly the price increase. This is certainly not the case, since already a large number of municipalities leave this service to private people who do the same good as they do in the context of the economic public service, if not better. It is true, however, that effective control is most important in this regard, which should prevent any abuse of such regulation. Members of New Slovenia will also not support the re-decision of the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u159	The word shall be given by the Group of the Modern Centre Parties, in its name mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Funeral and Funeral Activities Act, 1984, is still in force today. Of course, in this ten-year practice, different and very different from those of the country. In 2014, the Court of Auditors concluded in its audit report that from 2009 to 2012, as many as 94 municipalities carried out burial and funeral activities at least occasionally as a market activity. Therefore, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology recommended that it consider the possibility of carrying out funeral and funeral activities or at least part of one or more activities in a market-based way and that it identify the basic costs of a funeral that include basic funeral services and basic funeral equipment. The present bill follows fully the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. With regard to the State Council's re-decision requirement on the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act, we point out the following: the law follows the fundamental principles of providing piette, protecting health, free choice of burial sites, free choice of funeral service providers and equal treatment of all service providers, including stonemakers and gardeners. The law lays down uniform conditions for the conduct of funeral activities, directs the uniform regulation of burial activities at local level and the rules for the fifth and the treatment of the deceased, since they do not concern only the inhabitants of a particular area. Therefore, the proposal for a law is not contrary to Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The law lays down the elements of the basic funeral, allowing municipalities to take local specificities into account in the burial order. However, each funeral operator will have to provide at least one form of basic funeral, with the highest price set for this funeral, thus providing the socially weak with a decent reputation for their loved ones. Nor does the law run counter to Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government, since it is a system-wide law governing funeral and burial activities and can regulate funeral activities in a different way than has been regulated so far. However, it does not prohibit municipal public undertakings from carrying out funeral activities under the conditions laid down in the proposal for a law. The law lays down clear powers of control over funeral and burial activities. The law does not impose new financial obligations on the municipality and allows the municipality two: to set a funeral fee in the cemetery order, so that it can raise additional funds for the efficient management of the cemetery; to continue by applying the law governing the economic services and the relevant arrangements for the transition period of up to ten years where the municipality does not own the cemetery or does not have the appropriate facilities for the management of the cemetery. The 32-year legacy of the current law is everything before it is regulated and there is no doubt that changes are needed. The law before us ensures respect for pieta, provides the municipalities with a burial order with the first and last words at the cemetery as well as financial resources to regulate them. The law will actually lower the price of the funeral because the basic funeral will be priced. However, the choice of the funeral operator is left to the discretion of the people. They know best who they want to have with them in the days of their neighbor’s glory. For all of this, we will once again be supported by the Party Group of the Modern Centre of the Law on Funeral and Funeral Activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u161	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Uroš Prikl, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you very much, distinguished president; colleagues and colleagues! The veto of the State Council has once again highlighted the substantive, legal and other concerns that Members and Members of the Desus Group have had throughout the consideration of this bill's proposal. One of the most important questions is whether the bill will allow for adequate sanitary and health care and, above all, for the five-year treatment of the deceased. It is also essential that the provision of a service of public interest is ensured in a lasting and smooth manner. In doing so, I would like to point out clearly and in particular the decision of the Constitutional Court, which stated that there are activities which cannot be provided on the open market for reasons of petet, health and sanitation. The vast majority of Members and Members of the Desus Group also feel that way. It is also a moment when people find themselves under a heavy psychological burden when it is difficult to expect people to be able to compare offers and prices of different funeral service providers. In any case, funeral activity is not one of all the other different commercial activities and services. Many times there has been a thought that the liberalisation of funeral activities could lead to the beginning of a shortage of funds that have passed through or spill over from a more profitable funeral activity. Otherwise, the bill provides that a funeral operator will have to pay a so-called funeral fee that can be earmarked for burial activities. However, it is quite realistic to expect that in the end this burden will be reflected in the account of the undertaker of the funeral; it is certainly not on the smaller profits of the funeral operator. However, the argument that the liberalisation of funeral activities will reduce the prices of services in the long term always strikes at the fact that, on the other hand, the price of graves does not rise precisely because of the profit from this activity. Those of you, colleagues and colleagues who will support this law, see the advantage in that it does not provide for the total liberalisation of funeral activities. For it is the institution of a 24-hour on-call service, which will remain a compulsory municipal economic public service; and it is right to do so. However, here is also the definition of the basic funeral, which did not achieve our purpose in the Desus Group. For we wanted to ensure that the most vulnerable were granted a decent basic funeral and that this was clearly defined in the bill itself. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish this slowly. When we talk about funeral and burial activities, it is more than a century old tradition that works, which works very well. The vast majority of us in the Desus Group firmly believe that funeral activity must not be caught in the trap of universal wild, brutal liberalisation. We are also convinced by the opinions of a number of civil society initiatives; let me list only some: the Union of Retirement Associations of Slovenia, the Community of Slovenia, the Union of Slovenian Municipal municipalities, the Community of Municipal municipalities, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Virtually all stakeholders are against this law. And here we're gonna stop and listen to these stakeholders. As we say, we will not support this law in the vast majority of our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-20-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u163	We have completed our presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to decision-making. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of all members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 56 voted against and 17. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
