ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Vesna Vervega, Mr Franz Breznik, Mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Ivan Zorčič from 3 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, Mr Aleš Primc, representatives of the five thousand elections and voters to the 12th item of the agenda, the President of the Council of State to the 14th item of the agenda, the Minister of Infrastructure of Dr. Petr Gasperšić to the 21st item of the agenda, the President of the Government and the candidate for the Minister of Finance of Mags. Mr Matejo Vraničar Erman on the 22nd item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of the Court of Justice on the 24th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government on all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 9 September 2016, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda of the meeting. The Joint Left Group proposes to remove item 15 from the agenda of the 22nd session, namely the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Single Court of Patents Agreement. You have received a proposal of 16. 9. 2016 and published on e-club. Does the representative of the Joint Left Group want to speak as a motion for withdrawal? Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on the ratification of the Single Patent Court Agreement was already on the agenda for the June session. At that time, we pointed out that this ratification, or agreement, has some negative consequences for the Slovenian economy, especially the transfer of patent courts to three European capitals or three major cities: Paris, London and Munich. At that time, the general public, especially the economists and those who are also making innovation, and those who protect patents, have pointed out that this would entail costs in justifying these matters, in order to actually harm the smaller economy and smaller business entities such as Slovenia, of course, at the expense of foreign and larger corporations, because they will also be able to cover such costs more easily. At that time, we argued the withdrawal of this item from the agenda because there was no public debate. This was pointed out by the various stakeholders, the professional public and those most concerned. At that time this decision was in some way voted in order to allow this public debate to take place. We took a look at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association for the Protection of Intellectual Property. There was no public debate in these two months since we removed this item from the agenda. In short, the matter has not moved, and the Government has now sent the ratification law back to the National Assembly, even though the basic condition has not been met for this ratification to actually be decided. Therefore, once again, we point out that it is virtually impossible to accept such ratification or, I would say, at least in the first stage, to decide on it because we do not know what this brings and, above all, it has not been discussed with those most concerned. We are therefore again proposing that this item withdraw from the agenda and return only when these conditions are met, and this is that this public debate is held, in fact, to see what the consequences are and what this agreement actually entails.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u3	The text shall be given by the representative of the Government, as a proposal for a bill by the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! The Government's position is to propose that the ratification law nevertheless continues the procedure in this esteemed National Assembly, so that we also face arguments here. The three key points were set out in the United Left proposal. The first is that Slovenian companies will be exposed to lawsuits abroad and will no longer be able to sue in the Republic of Slovenia. That's not true. Participating countries after this patent shall have the opportunity to establish their own local departments and regional departments of the court. Slovenia foresees this and has also provided budgetary resources for this purpose this year and for the following year. It should also be pointed out that Slovenian courts are not already competent to decide on the European patent with a single effect and certain Slovenian companies are forced to sue abroad by setting up a local court. This case will be resolved here. As regards the evidence of the high costs of justification and the unequal position of small businesses compared to multinationals. The fact is that patent disputes are already extremely expensive, including for Slovenian companies. If we ratified this agreement and set up a local unit, they'd essentially go down. In addition, it is important that large multinationals, due to the large money available, can sue in different countries, say, Slovenian companies, which then have to fight in different forums in different countries. Now it's supposed to be arranged in a uniform way. And also about public debate. I would like to point out that this patent court has been discussed since 2012. It is true that some major conferences and seminars have not been conducted indirectly in the last year, but bilateral negotiations with different stakeholders have been carried out, a thorough analysis has been carried out, a study on the impact of the European patent on the Slovenian economy by the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana. I think it's appropriate for us to talk here again. A single patent court in Europe is a fact now that it has been ratified by other countries, and we have only one option – whether we are trying to design, co-form in the interest of Slovenia's mainly smaller companies, or whether we will remain outside what is certainly not good for the Slovenian economy. And the last thing. I have talked a lot with fellow Justice Ministers of the smaller countries with similar dilemmas, which are better. And here others also agreed that it was good for this train to get on and co-form it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u5	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is given by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, President of the Government! The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will vote against this proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. We have already heard in substance the reasons why he presented them on behalf of the Government, Minister of Justice. Nevertheless, I would simply and only procedurally like to point out and also to argue why we will oppose it. This point has already been discussed within the framework of the national working body in the National Assembly, and at the College of the President of the National Assembly, when we confirmed the agenda of our September plenary session, we had the opportunity to withdraw this point with certain arguments from the agenda, and this has not happened. As for a combination of procedural and all-inclusive reasons related to the inability to hear the interested public, let me remind you, however, that the interested public has been speaking intensively and is also discussing this content in Slovenia for several years. It is not a problem not to be heard, but it is a key issue for the public concerned to see differently the timeline when this agreement should be ratified. For all the reasons mentioned above, unfortunately, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre cannot confirm this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u7	Then I give the floor only to the representative of the Group of the Joint Left for further explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thanks again. As far as public debate is concerned. We heard the minister say there were no conferences and seminars for a while. I would like to point out here that it was just this, conferences and seminars. These are some limited forums where, of course, people can express their views or their different aspects. However, the fact is that it would probably take more than a forum to adopt such an agreement, such as a conference or a seminar. So some direct dialogue between stakeholders, as you wish to express yourself, and those who accept such an agreement. The analyses were, of course, prepared and some other analyses were prepared that showed some negative effects. Furthermore, I would like to point out that all countries do not accede to this agreement and have reservations. When I heard the Minister say let's get on this train, and then we'll see what it brings up, it kind of reminds me of the position we have before the signing of the secret agreements. So let's put them into effect temporarily, and then we'll see what the consequences are. I don't think such a move on this train, no matter how fast it goes, is justified. He may not be the most judgmental one, so we insist that there is no need to do so quickly. Of course, this has been discussed by the parent working body, so that the discussion will continue to be limited, but we think it is particularly important that those concerned have the opportunity to discuss this issue, and these are the people who create or work with patents. Finally, it is not only a business or an economy issue, but also employees in certain companies which, as a result of this agreement, may suffer damage and further damage is then job losses. We stand firm in the view that there is no need for this agreement to be ratified already at this meeting, but for this public debate to be carried out with discretion, to listen to what people have to say and then to decide in some way. Of course, we are of the view that if, for example, other countries are not yet ready to sign this agreement, perhaps we too can wait a little.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u9	This concludes the debate on the withdrawal proposal and brings us to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw the 15th item from the agenda. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Is it working now? One more time. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 54. [[The vote was 12. (against 54.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. We move to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 2. [[The vote was 74. (against 2.)]] I take it the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 41 questions from the Member States in writing within the deadline. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, they apologized today: Mr Karel Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you, President, for your word. Honorable Council of Ministers, President of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, nice greetings! In Slovenia, we say all through how proud we are to have more than 60% of our beautiful country sown with forest, how we have all the details to develop forest and forest processing industry. These are the facts. But when we get into practice, we see that we have a lot of problems. Even more so, these problems in the forest and forest processing industries escalated after the agglomeration at the beginning of 2014. In the SDS Group, we have already immediately called an urgent meeting of the competent committee, proposed laws, but all the time from 2014 until today we are hearing that the government has everything under control, things are working, all stakeholders know what and how to do them, etc. At that time, we warned the current Minister of Agriculture, as well as the former Minister of Agriculture, that when the weather came, the Slovenians would have much joy, and more joy would be given to skullrs who would quietly but very visibly destroy the Slovenian forest. Fortunately, in 2014 it was a bad spring, a bad summer and a bad fall. But last year, the first effects of the beautiful spring and summer times were already visible, and in the opposition we called the committees meetings, and we discussed the issues of the Lubadars, and we discussed the issue of the Slovenian forests and also the new state-owned company. And it was said, everything's super nice. What is the situation today? More than three million cubic cubic metres of wood have already been cut down due to lubrars in Slovenian forests. It is still hugely recorded, especially in recent months this increase in this area is rapid. The cut doesn't follow the link. The damage is already over 100 million euros and so on. On the other hand, we have an accident because we have a state forest company, where everyone is once again in shape, but there is no content. Since there are still no functioning wood-processing centres here, I am interested in: What are you gonna do? Who, what, where, how and for what money will we not leave the skull to destroy the Slovenian forest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u11	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you very much, honourable Member Tomaž Lisec. First of all, let me be very clear to citizens and citizens and also to the respected assembly that Slovenian forests are not falling and that despite some problems they are in relatively good condition. But it is true that we are facing great changes in the climate and the environment. Today, both in our country and in other countries, the forest is threatened by natural conditions, diseases, climate change and certain forms of timber trade that are globalising. In 2014 we actually experienced the most devastating phenomenon of hunger in the history of Slovenia. The crash was more than 9 million cubic metres of wood mass, of which is a third of the Iglavs, and this was almost a two-year possible cut in Slovenia. With such a large amount, it is unrealistic to expect to be removed from the forests very quickly and thus prevent the foretold multiplication of groundhogs, including skulls and so on. In Europe too, such rehabilitations last longer, even for five or more years. However, despite the fact that the situation is serious, as you correctly note, I can say that the recovery of the consequences of the pharynx is in full motion and that last year's volume of sanitation has been the largest ever. I can also say on the basis of data that this year's current volume is 1.6 million cubic metres, last year there were 2.1 million cubic meters. This year, too, it shows that it will bring new maximum annual value, so that this cut takes place to prevent these negative consequences. The country is very actively helping because we know that forest owners are economically affected. How do we help? Let me give you six sets of measures. It helps owners to write off the relevant tax burdens, by ensuring co-financing of oppressive works, free of charge means are provided for the execution of these oppressive works, free professional assistance is provided, the necessary forest rehabilitation orchards are provided and most of the farming and protection works are finally co-financed. So the country is very active. But we are aware of the importance of the forest, and we are very aware of it. As you know, we are trying to establish in Slovenia what we have missed in years, because it is somehow a dead forest and forest chain, that even from the wood we extract from the forests will have more and our producers. Here we also implement all the measures in the intervention law set out to remedy these consequences of the acorn. Let me also say that we are also preparing amendments to the Forest Act, which will be dealt with briefly in the Government. Let me give you two more details. With regard to growth, and also with regard to forests, let me say that the annual stock in Slovenian forests is quite large, in fact the same as in Germany or Austria, only slightly smaller than Switzerland, which is the largest in the European scale, is about 300 cubic metres per hectare, and the increase in Slovenian forests currently amounts to 7.3 cubic metres per year and is therefore also among the highest in Europe. So I think the situation is serious, we agree here, but the government here is very active with forms of assistance. Here, in particular, I should like to pay particular tribute to all those conscientious forest owners who, in accordance with the instructions of the public forestry service, are carrying out timely repairs of the attack by grounders in their forests. However, I call upon all those who may not be here in time who delay to follow the instructions of the Government, the instructions of the profession, because in fact this rehabilitation depends primarily on this timely cut and the execution of oppressive works. It's working, we're worried, we're sharing it with you, and the woods aren't going to fail. We'll see to it that we continue to restore them. Of course, it is commendable that we are all focused on this, that we work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u13	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm glad you're worried, but the report that's just ahead of us, which is by the end of July this year – Information about repairing damage due to the attack of the underlings, shows in theory a catastrophic picture in the Slovenian forests. But if we ask all those, not just owners who walk through Slovenian forests, they say we have a natural disaster. More. Many note that if this is the case if this farmer will survive the most unloved government in the history of the Republic of Slovenia until 2018, after 2018 we will no longer talk about Slovenian forests. And this also comes from reports prepared by the very properly competent ministry. But what you're saying is that forests don't go to waste is that you and the Minister of Agriculture have to make a deal or share the same feelings. Members of the committee, I believe that all together, we can say with certainty that Slovenian forests also suffer on the basis of the fact that ruling parties are more concerned with what this newly established state-owned company Slovenian State Forests should be. More. It's a huge orchard, but it's not spent. The urine doesn't follow the link and so on. These are all examples of practice, respected Prime Minister of the Government. And more. At a time when concessionaires are sitting at home because they lost their jobs when the government deals with this state company, Slovenian wood falls. And I share the concern when a report on the status of the subscribers by the end of August of this year comes before the members of the Committee at an emergency meeting. Dear Prime Minister, the situation is serious. It is even more serious because the skull also attacks those forests that we consider to be consecrated, Pohorje and so on. I am sure that if 2017 is another such year, we will no longer have beautiful Slovenian forests in 2018 and we will no longer have a forest-forest chain. What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u15	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Because I've basically told you everything, let me just fill out my answer for a little while. We are aware that I am also aware that this natural disaster in our forests has indeed done great damage to the stomach. But, as I pointed out, we are above average this moment and last year and this year we are doing away with these consequences. So, we have a far overaverage of this sanitary section, both last year and this year. So, this is a very busy place, a lot of work for all those who work here. The claim that, as you said, we are the most unloved of farmers, of course, is far from sustainable. I cannot explain this now in one minute, but I am sure that the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition will explain this on a reasonable basis on the first possible occasion. As you know, we also carried out extraordinary relief measures this summer for those affected by this year's natural phenomena, and this I think is incorrect. We are also working hard for farmers, and it is clear to us that we must keep it here when it comes to this forest. And just as we are establishing a new arrangement for this forest economy, which will finally, after all these years, make sure that we can also grow things from wood at home, employ our people, not that foreigners will benefit from it, as they have been all these years, on our account. I think that's evidence, how we take care of our farmers, our craftsmen, our producers. As far as the environmental dimension is concerned, our focus on green is very visible and believe me that the government will continue to care for farmers, our green Slovenia, including the forests that are this moment of darkness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u17	Mr Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you, President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the topic of the situation in Slovenian forests be held at the next meeting, because it is obvious that something is a beautiful pir and theory, and another is a practice. The president didn't say anything important was going to happen today. He just said it was working. Dear Prime Minister, we know it's working on the ground, but if I say so at home, obviously the skull is faster than the work of this government. In short, your intensity should be even better. At the same time, you reject foreign aid, you deal with state forests, you don't know how to approach the owners of private forests, etc. There are a lot of questions on this segment, and I think it is right if we want what I said in the introduction, that we still have a beautiful green with the forest growing Slovenia, that we want to create a forest-forest processing industry, it is right to hold a debate at the next meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This debate will be even more effective, as in early October we expect the next report from the competent ministry on the situation of problem-solving with the partners and the respected President of the Government, I hope that you will read that report. All these indicators, which were catastrophic by the end of July, are confident that those working on the ground will be even more catastrophic. I hope that this point will be aimed not only at the pirates, but that we will all together be able to take concrete measures to help the Slovenian stakeholders in this area, but perhaps what is blasphemous for the many in Slovenia, to bring all those foreigners, not as long as they have exported wood to Austria with the help of Slovenian concessionaires, but that we will do everything that we will not use the help of Slovenian wood merchants to keep this wood at home, but that we will also make sure that, with the help of the orchards and the help of traps and other measures, we will do everything that we will not have any rebalancing of budgets in 2017 solely because of the fact that this hundred million-million-million-dollar damage. However, I do not think this is in your interest, President of the Government, especially the Ministry of Finance, but especially not to Slovenian farmers and foresters, who are making every effort to keep the Slovenian forest as it is, and it is right to give them MEPs with the help of ministries the incentive to invest in Slovenian forests and Slovenian timber. But if you don't want it, it'll just be proof that you're a lot more into pierre than you are for practical problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u19	Mr Tomaž Lisec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September 2016, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franz Trček, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. All due respect! Dear Mr Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! I'll ask you two questions. I'm going to come from official, publicly available data, so there's no need for you to read from a plenticle, and I hope that you will not only answer us all in an understandable and unambiguous manner. Of course, this is a subject that we will address in this meeting following an urgent procedure with a three-month delay in implementation of the so-called mini-tax reform, which you now call slightly more cautiously restructuring. In this mine, tax reform, which brings some technical solutions that are necessary, is the most controversial proposal to change the income scale. After this income scale, you will not, as you stated in the annex, raise wages or convert to data from 2014, give a dozen people with the highest income in Slovenia 56 million credits, if I put it that way, but you will only do this to 7.4% of citizens and citizens, in short one 13th. This measure will essentially, to be frank, start working with people who have incomes like you and me. Before the parliamentary holidays themselves, the Statistical Office issued a report on the state of poverty and social exclusion survey in Slovenia, which is alarming. Every seventh person lives below the poverty threshold, although this threshold is methodologically very low. Every fifth person is socially excluded. Even more! In exactly half of the statistical regions, these shares are higher. In Zasavje, 1 out of 4 persons is socially excluded, at the same time a candidate for a finance minister says that we must save so that we can live decently somewhere in the future. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Cerar: With an income scale of around 70 000 the best paid in Slovenia, you will increase your income by 56 million. How much will you spend on the recipients of social assistance? How much will you spend for the 300,000 people who live below the poverty line? Why will you give up a budget income of about 50 million at a time when it is necessary to save, when it is not for health care, when it is not for projects, when next year we will have lower resources in the budget for both the social and the environmental and agricultural issues in which the word used to run?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u21	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Dr. Franz Ducky. Two questions, first of all. The so-called tax restructuring, the tax system, is intended to take a step towards the economy. This is the first step, while at the same time helping at least a few economies, which of course have much greater demands, is also burdening on the other hand on the income scale some people who are now at the bottom of this social status. So we're pursuing two goals. The first thing I'm going to focus on is helping the economy. What's he holding? Slovenia has been proven by all criteria, international and ours, the average labour and consumption burden and the under-average burden of capital and property. And this, of course, reduces our competitiveness, increases the risk of growth and development of the grey economy, and, finally, some young people are pushing, as you know, for profit or employment abroad. Therefore, in order to improve competitiveness and to ensure continued stable and predictable public financial revenues, we have taken this first step, which you will now consider in the National Assembly, in the context of tax reform. Of course, we will continue these steps next year. This means that we are actually burdening those highly professional and generally most productive debtors who contribute significantly to the added value of an enterprise or a social product. And that's very important. This is where we're going across from the economy. On the other hand, these measures, which I cannot explain in more detail now, will also relieve some 20,000 taxpayers who are at lower levels of the income scale. It's absolutely not true that this government doesn't care about social services. As you know, several social measures have already been taken under this government to benefit the poorest, the most difficult to live. As you know, we're coordinating pensions, we're thinking about pensioners. True, it is very difficult for me personally, too, because I know that the rate of poverty is still moving at a critical point or that we have it at all, poverty. It's very painful for me, too. But look, the last level of risk of poverty has shown a 0.2 percentage point reduction. A little, but we're moving. We're moving. And the assessment of the population itself, according to recent statistics, shows that this self-assessment has improved slightly. This is one of the first swallows to predict spring. Look what's most important. This government not only fights poverty by helping to encourage but also by increasing employment in the social field. We have also reduced unemployment. For the first time in six years, unemployment fell below 100,000. In the last two years alone, we have employed some 50,000 young people. This is also our fight against poverty. Giving people a job will enable them to live a decent life. We will continue to do so to increase this. Of course, even with this tax reform being imposed and implemented, we will make businesses even more productive, bringing new jobs, including those of highly qualified young people who could otherwise go abroad. We'll keep more of these at home here, too. I would stress, however, that this is the first step, a small step, and economists would like much more, much more radical measures, where, on the other hand, some layers of workers as well as citizens could be affected. That is why we are looking for this right balance. When we take this first step with your help here in the National Assembly, the coalition will stand firm for this, we will continue this second year, for a more successful economy, for more employment. This will also allow additional income to provide more opportunities to help those who really need it. We need this poverty in Slovenia, and that is certainly the goal of this government, a very strong priority below the mandate, and this poverty must be significantly reduced so that it will not end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u23	Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor to request a supplement to your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, Mr President of the Government's response was expected. Are we in a state of war? We didn't. Are macroeconomic indicators terrible, bad? They're not. You said yourself you couldn't explain it in more detail. Then why are we taking this as an emergency? Why do we not adopt such important legislation on a regular basis in some serious debate? Measures to address poverty should be taken following an urgent procedure. In the annex to this law alone, you have written, quote, "that the law will have less positive effects on the economy". We know for ourselves that he will not have them, because the gross wages will in fact remain the same. The minister's candidate, when I asked her to give me data on the structure of wages by sector, was literally lying about not being able to give me personal data. After all, they could be given to you in the Economic and Social Council and we would see that these salaries do not include young engineers, experts, scientists, etc. You're forecasting spring, winter's coming in. For the previous item of the agenda, this is fine, but for people living in a state of energy poverty, it is not. It is true that this legislation, if adopted, will slightly increase the income of 20,000 people living just above the threshold of minimum wage, but this is a ratio of 1 to 12. We called this marriage proposal “lex Superhik” in the United Left. You were playing in Alan Ford's ensemble, you know what that means. I'm sorry about that. I want you to actually explain to me how you're going to deal with poverty. After all, amendments to this law, which we have also proposed in the United Left, can begin to solve the urgent problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u25	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u26	Actually, I've told you everything. I'm just adding something else that this second part of the debate referred to, why the law goes by emergency procedure to the National Assembly. Because it is in a hurry because we want to help entrepreneurs of all kinds as soon as possible in order to be able to retain, they have employed those of our staff who are highly qualified, highly qualified, and, as I said, they give the most to added value, which, as a result, also increases prosperity in Slovenia, and clearly, employment among young people, especially among them, not only among them. Secondly, you say, there will only be minor positive effects. I'm glad you admit that there will be positive effects, because that's true. They're going to be smaller for starters. But they are, they will be visible, they will be sensitive. and taking into account all the other circumstances that the Government is trying to create together with the economy, this will only add to the very favourable trends in the economy. Our economy is in good shape, it's developing. Everything that encourages him forward, and we do it, has to be supported, I'm sure. Especially when it comes to what I've pointed out is that there will be more work. That will still be the key factor. We need to increase the scope of work, the possibility that citizens will be able to earn for themselves, for their families. Look, I don't think there's anyone in this room. I'm sure we're all like that. We wish there wasn't poverty. Trust me, the government will deal with this even more. First of all, we had to deal with all past sins, such as the government deficit and everything else, now, and even in the first two years of this work, we are looking at how we will reduce poverty further. I can't agree that you're accusing a minister or anyone in the government of lying or anything like that. It just doesn't hold. I think we have had a very clear and transparent debate on this reform, and that is why it has taken a long time, with economists, with all the chambers, with social partners, etc. Now the matter is well prepared and is going to this finalisation. I suggest, indeed, that the National Assembly supports it and that it also helps those who are in a bad situation right now. However, I am sure that we will be able to reduce these and other measures significantly in the following year, two dimensions of poverty in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u27	Dr. Franc Trček, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u28	I'll take this opportunity. One of the ministers of your government said earlier, 'appreciated National Assembly', given how you prevent us from having a serious discussion on this very important subject, you are also showing how much you appreciate this National Assembly. But we'll get through this. Your candidate for minister lied, but I have little control over the protection of personal data because it is my area of expertise. Among other things, she said that the topic of my key question today was the prize for those who contributed most to the increase in added value. This is also very insulting to all those who fill this state budget. Does someone who lives above the poverty line, someone who works for a minimum wage, not contribute to raising the added value to me, or does a colleague of Kordish usually assume himself here as some kind of lewd person? It's what your government somehow says. This mini reform will not help the economy, that is clear to everyone. Something else would have to be done to help the economy. We read in the newspapers that for five years the field agency has not applied for European competitions for the circulation of young scientists. We were both young scientists. At that time, instead of 500 euros in salary, I would like to go somewhere, how the book, I would like to get new knowledge. They say they have not applied for the invitation to tender because it is not in the budget of two million. We have a story about subsidisation of school lunches, when 8 million are reserved in the budget, and apart from the United Left and the rare part of the opposition, you somehow avoid it and then explain it to journalists through such nebulas that they literally throw up. That's not funny, mate. To introduce this, to equalize the three poorest classes and to make this marriage too much of a change, and to make schools too difficult. At the same time, you're talking about debirocratization. Things are too serious to talk about. Of course, I am taking advantage of the possibility of some debate and I hope that coalition Members and Members will be so independent of the executive authority and will allow us to have a debate through this business option, which is impossible for us through the way in which this "lex Superhik" tax reform invests. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u29	Dr. Franc Trček, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u30	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The second anniversary of your government is also a break between the first and the second half and also an opportunity for serious analysis or, more importantly, a serious plan of how the game will take place in the second half. After the first half, it is regrettable that your government is not focused on the preparation of the reform measures or the key legislation that the country would need for long-term stability. Health care. In the first half, no measures were taken or presented to ensure the sustainability of the healthcare system. Even more! The waiting species and ages are increasing. They've been extended by more than half. Therefore, over the past two years, waiting periods have doubled and citizens are forced to seek out services elsewhere, in the private sector, in the private sector, which costs even more. There are also no measures to relieve the economy. Measures that would mean added value and more oxygen to our economy. The proposed mini-tax reform mainly entails an additional burden of €60 million for our economy, rather than making Slovenia a favourable environment for the growth of a small and medium-sized economy. And the well-respected President of the Government, which is the most pressing problem at this time, are young, mentioned earlier. But I just traced the data today. Young people are going abroad. During the period of your government, 16,000 young people went abroad after completed and completed appropriate education. 16,000 young people leaving Slovenia looking for an opportunity elsewhere. You said before, we have a new 50,000 young people who are employed. I am curious at this moment about what are the key measures taken by the government, which meant that we have 50,000 young people in employment. What is this key legislation? Of course, you will also commend me for the fact that we have GDP growth, lower unemployment, but everything points out that, above all, external factors are those that suggest that we have more young employees and growth in gross domestic product, but structural measures are not. Dear Prime Minister, these data are highly disturbing and I am interested in: How, when and by what measures will you approach the solution of these acute health and economic problems? In fact, the time when we are witnessing economic growth, as is the case today, is the most appropriate time to prepare structural reforms to prepare the country for the time of testing. We've already missed this time in the past. Let's not be like this in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u31	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much, honourable Member Jernej Vrtovec. First answer to the first question, health care. I understand you, I understand the plight of many of our citizens, and I would like change to be faster myself. I would like health to be the value that will be adequately protected. However, with the current state of affairs that this government has received, we have simply had to make a lot of organizational and financial emergency first, as well as analyse the situation so that we can take some key steps towards major changes in health in the coming months. Yet, we have done much, and that is not often heard. In fact, we have provided faster help to people via e-reception. This year we will have an e-mail by the end of this year. We're expanding the network of reference ambulances, we've opened up 10 emergency centres, and now we're building a Ljubljana ER that's supposed to be completed all next year. What hasn't happened in years. We have provided funding for the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre, as previously envisaged. Many are organizational measures. Remember the oncology institute and so on. The government here, with operational measures everywhere, is correcting the bad situation of the past. Of course, we are aware of this moment of problems, especially waiting times, and of the need for systemic solutions. As I said earlier this October, November will come to the National Assembly, and this is also the commitment of our Minister of Health, some of the key laws that will lead to these systemic changes. However, we have already spent a total of 16 million this year on projects that will help reduce waiting periods. And we will continue to do so in the future. This government must succeed and succeed in reducing waiting times, in regulating this health care, in enabling doctors and health workers to work better, and in providing patients with more accessible help. However, in the situation as we have found it, I stress that it has not been possible to do so far, as many shortcomings have to be addressed so that we can now move the matter forward. The reform is already going on and on. As far as the economy is concerned. What did the government do? A lot of things. Of course, the economists have done a lot, and we can thank them. But by setting up our public finances, by regulating business with state-owned companies, with state-owned insurance companies, banks, when we have largely stopped this increase in corruption and introduced some normal state-owned management, by improving the rating of Slovenia with great public-financial efforts, by reducing substantially, almost halving interest in our debt, making Slovenia interesting again to foreign investors, attractive as a country, a country with a reputation and not by policy to intervene in the economy in this way, but by deregulation of professions, where we have started to implement certain measures, we have with some removals of administrative barriers, with a lot of involvement in the field, including some direct assistance, to remember, as an example, the cableway to Kanina, where we have started to work again, and we have some rediscovered out administrative barriers, including some direct assistance. Tourism – here we have invested a lot of millions to help promote tourism. This year we have a record 2.2 billion revenue from foreign tourists, the matter goes on. We have stable economic growth, I have mentioned a significant reduction in unemployment, an increase in employment, especially among young people. We have also improved our competitiveness on the scales. This is all that makes it easier for our entrepreneurs to do business with abroad, even easier to export, and that at the same time foreign investors come to us, that there is a story going on here that we all want, because it brings people work, it brings success to the country. Let's move on. However, I agree with you, in the field of health, we are facing great challenges, but I also believe that we will be able to overcome them. It will therefore also be important that you support the laws that will soon come to Parliament and that the Ministry will continue these measures. And this is where the government supports him. To provide public health care, for you yourself said that people now find themselves in private, which is a burden for them. And you see, the government has a perspective, a vision of strengthening this public health care, making it accessible to people, but of course it will still be possible. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u33	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, Prime Minister of the Government for the first answer that I am not most pleased with, even as far as health care is concerned, because it is crucial that the situation has deteriorated over the last two years, even during waiting periods and waiting periods. The number of waiting in the last two years has doubled. We, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government, are likely to have enough income to afford a private fee. The minimum wage person is sentenced to wait for months and years for the most urgent checks under the notice immediately. And that's the problem. As far as the emergency centers are concerned. Procedures relating to emergency centres, if I am not mistaken, have been initiated by the Government in the period 2004-2008. But in at least one case, a rush with an emergency center also required a death tax, so to speak, in Shempeter. So it is not always a matter of rushing certain procedures, but sometimes it is necessary to work carefully. However, I agree with you that there has been a health crisis, including a hand-to-heart, in our 2004-2008 account. The situation of all past governments has been affected. As far as your praise is concerned, what has Slovenia done – why is New Slovenia calling for reforms? Because we'll be ready for the test. For example, Germany was prepared in 2009 on the basis of Schröder's 2002 measures. When you said how bad the crisis had been before, it was property management that it was now arranged. See, the management of assets in Slovenia is still a long way from being regulated. In fact, it is arranged so that the property is managed by the right one, not to make management better. Public finances. Look, this isn't exactly what you said, because the four successive GDP growths were already ahead of your government. As a supplementary question, in particular [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u35	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Once again, let me be very clear that I regret the fact that, as you say, many people have to go to a private doctor or not have this option at all because they do not have enough resources while waiting in waiting lines. But look, it's a snowball that's been raining for years. We've already got it at a very high speed, and now we have to slow it down. It's not that simple. But we stop it, and we stop it with common powers. Therefore, it is so important that this coalition succeeds in this concept that we allow people to continue to have quality public health. You said yourself how much trouble a person gets if he can't pay for a service outside of public health. And we will work on this, and I assure you that we will realize this vision and that these changes will be made, so that it will be significantly visible for the second year also on the waiting lines of change and in other respects. As far as the economy is concerned, look, you mentioned the word "greeting." It's not about bragging. I am able to thank many, that is, ministers as well as government officials and those who have worked with obedience and willingness to relieve the economy, especially the economics themselves, in order to carry on a better story than it has been in the past. This story is good now. We have a positive trend. However, as far as managing state assets is concerned, you cannot say that there is no significant difference. We have adopted a particularly written strategy, where it is very clearly defined by which criteria the masters of which companies, what profitability is expected to be, who will be responsible for what if these profitability is not, under what very clear criteria state-owned enterprises are managed. And they're no longer governed by some kind of invisible policy. We now have here a Slovenian state holding company with a transparent operation, we are talking about corporate governance, where this sphere is depoliticized, where it is simply more of a profession, authorized, for those who are familiar with these standards, it is left to them. At the same time, appropriate contributions are very clearly required, meeting the relevant criteria. And that's the progress I've mentioned. Let me finish. I think the path is right, and the results show it, but now we still have to step up our steps, especially in the area of health. That's what we all agree on. I think we're just about to take those key steps in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u37	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u38	Yes, thank you very much. I am sure that the debate on structural reforms in this National Assembly would be very much on the table to discuss with you ministers and ministers what this country needs to be better. What will be the long-term vision of this country? Since you have just mentioned, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, the management of the state property of the Slovenian State Holding, see, these strategies have been in the past, at least I remember them, very much already. Every government has come up with some new strategy. But as long as we are owned and we are talking about the sale of property like we are talking about the New Ljubljana Bank or the search for responsible owners for these shares of the country in these companies, then we cannot talk about good governance. As long as we are witnessing the rallies that were in Luka Koper, which led to the resignation of the head of the Slovenian state holding company, then we cannot say that SDH manages state property. Someone else manages state property if one of the Presidents of the Slovenian State Holding is taken away by Luka Koper. As far as the New Ljubljana Bank is concerned, there's a lot of fog here. All of a sudden, we are witnessing that we are not sticking to some of the agreements we have made and will continue to bear this burden, which is called the New Ljubljana Bank. I don't know why we're doing this. We would need a broad debate here on this strategy. I ask Members and Members in essence, it is in this country's interest to discuss where and how our country, which are the key measures that will mean for the country of stability and that young people will not go and seek opportunities abroad. Twenty-seven thousand today are Slovenes and Slovenians who are employed in Germany, yet once again so much or more in Austria. It is very difficult to talk about the opportunity we give to our young people in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u39	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September 2016, in the framework of the votes. Mr Matjaž Germany, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Prime Minister, good afternoon. As my predecessor, Comrade Jernej Vrtovac, has developed the thesis on what we can do to make our country even better, in this style we will also ask you the next question, unlike some colleagues, when they have asked critical questions about the facts being carried out with a critical distance. When we talk about some progressiveity, we are trying to offer certain solutions within and within Parliament, and even more within the government. In the world, for more than a decade, we have been monitoring the development of an economic phenomenon, addressed as a sharing economy, a dividing economy, or some say an economy of cooperation, which can be seen as an economic platform with the characteristics of joint or mass financing. These are the receptions that are in step with modern time and in some ways enable, and this is important to redefine the relationship between work and capital or between private and public. This platform opens up new economic and social potential and one of the more exposed and interesting business models of this concept for Slovenia is the occasional rental of apartments using an online intervention platform. Known, we can call it classic, so the offer of tourist accommodation has also sought its place in the dividing economy. And given that Slovenia is very picturesque and vibrant in following trends, particularly with regard to the development of tourism, as one of the tourist-oriented countries, it is exposed to demand for these services. Unfortunately, this does not follow the legal framework for which we are responsible, and consequently effective administrative regulation for the easier and more friendly implementation of these services. Social Democrats have been constantly reminding us that the chaotic situation in this area must now be regulated, as the real estate process in our country is administratively and legally so complicated that, despite the best of intentions, it cannot be implemented legally. While we welcome, Mr President of the Government, all the efforts of this government, which, through the establishment of the Interdepartmental Working Group, sought an appropriate solution. Unfortunately, this work has not produced the desired effects. But I'm asking you: How will the government deal with this area, occasionally renting real estate to tourists? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u41	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Matjaž German. You are right, the government itself is very strongly aware of the importance of this so-called cooperation economy. As you know, this is the largest tourism gap, for example in the broadcasting of apartments, the offer of transportation in culinary as well as in other areas. And you are also right to say that last year the government has dealt with these problems, but the Interdepartmental Working Group simply failed to reach a solution because of the sea of regulations, the complexity of the regime, which is known to be too large for Slovenia. We therefore immediately commissioned the Ministry of the Economy to deal with this issue and to seek solutions to ease and simplify the rules on short-term renting for tourists and related areas. Here we are also following the European Commission's guidelines, which it gave only June this year, so that we see how late Europe is also responding to this when it comes to a new phenomenon that is extremely dynamic. The government is aware of him. We will now try to find solutions in accordance with these guidelines and with our specificities as soon as possible, and these conditions for this cooperation economy must be very clear, especially for tourists, so all participants must be objective and proportionate in terms of the scope of the activity. I must also point out here the recommendation of the Commission, which I must take into account, that there should be a distinction between the occasional provision of services to which these forms of the cooperative economy belong, and the professional conduct of activities already carried out by different economic operators and individuals. The government here is looking for possible solutions, and it is pursuing the following goals, and these are the goals that we will try to achieve. Through a broader debate, these objectives will be further sharpened. We would like to make it easier to receive tourists at home for concordants who broadcast their properties up to 60 days a year. We want to ease the harsh and unnecessary requirements for tenants who are natural persons and who give real estate up to five months a year. It will be necessary to prevent the issue of black and unfair competition to the economy and to preserve some meaningful matters, such as the payment of a tourist tax, the payment of a property tax, the reporting of guests to the police and so on. There is only one small set of measures, as the collaborative economy is wider, including passenger transport, etc. This will soon be addressed in depth in the Government and will then certainly come to this esteemed assembly, where legislative changes will have to be adopted. However, proposals for concrete measures will be drawn up by the end of this year. We are very hasty because we are aware that next year it would be very good to allow our people, as well as everyone else, through this cooperative economy, to extend our tourist offer, our ability to transport passengers and, above all, to contribute again to the additional range, the expansion of our economy and to new jobs. This is so important. It is also very important to stress that this regulation is a challenge in terms of fairness, proportionality, how to regulate these aspects of the economy, so that we do not cause a disruption or disproportionate or any other unfair interference in those already operating in the market who have all the right not to make their situation worse. Therefore, like the trends in Europe and in the world, we will try to achieve both objectives, i.e. the spread of this cooperation economy and at the same time the guarantee of those normal economic standards of operation of the economy, which must be ensured that we are fair enough to all. The government is paying attention to this, it works and will come up with concrete solutions this year and then I hope for the development of this in Slovenia even next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u43	Mr Matjaž German, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. Your words will certainly encourage all systems to seek even more intensive and progressive solutions. But giving real estate to tourists isn't the only challenge we have. We need to establish different forms of cooperation or shared economies at systemic level. I think that we all agree here that when new forms of the economy occur, and these are already in front of the door, we are not creating new trends here, but we are just following the new trends that we will be prepared to follow the new forms of such an economic platform so that the integrated legal framework will follow new opportunities. For this reason, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must be set up with greater commitment to realize the potential of these new economic forms. After all, it is also the benefit of the State, as you have found in the reply. Here I am talking mainly about the recommendation of the Interdepartmental Working Group, which recommended to the Government the preparation of a comprehensive and system-wide law on the area of cooperation of the entire economy, including other services. Let me just count them. These are mass financing, transportation, distribution of goods, equipment, property, occasional work and the like. That is why I ask you, Mr. President of the Government: Does the Government have a plan to draft a law that would regulate at systemic level the possibility of implementing different models of the economic divide or the participation of the economy, taking into account the fact that housing is not the only form of economic cooperation, and what is the timing of the economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u45	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much for that supplementary question. I forgot to mention that we're going this way. Like the Social Democrats of the Modern Centre Party, in general, in the coalition, and I believe that these desires come from other environments, these needs to be adopted by some kind of roofing law, some systemic solution for all these different forms of collaborative economy. In this direction, not only does the government think, but it is already taking the first steps. We intend to adopt a specific law, a safeguard law or a system-wide solution, in any way that would allow for an appropriate scale of this cooperative economy, taking into account the principle of proportionality and fairness to other operators already operating on the market. I can assure you that the Interdepartmental Commission, which you have already mentioned, has been working on this issue, has been looking for solutions and is now continuing with the ministry. I would like Slovenia to be here, this is very important, modern in the spirit of time, not to be left behind by other countries, and therefore also this moment, when I say this, some ministers, some are here, not at this moment, but some are also on their way abroad and are working, dealing with these issues. In Slovenia, we want to create those forms of collaborative economy that are already present in some countries today or will soon be there to be in Slovenia, that we will also go to Slovenia with development so that we will not be lagging behind. Our government, as you know, is working to keep us in the spirit of time, moving forward into the future. I think this is one of the key moments for such a development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u47	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the question raised at the 21st meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič will agree on the issue of Dr Vinko Gorenak regarding the assessment of the state of integrity, responsibility and rule of law relating to the integrity of the current Government and its ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, Dr. Gorenak, I apologize for late last time, and I did not come to answer you. Well, the answer will now be very short. As Minister of Justice, I have no legal or constitutional right to comment on the integrity of the Government. As for the statements made by Mr Štefanec, President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption at that well-known meeting of the MVK, I have also made it public several times that I will not comment on the work of my successor in this function. His statements are his card, his annual reports are his card, and everyone can create their own opinion on this. However, the report itself and the state of the matter in this area are responsible for deciding and discussing the competent committee of the National Assembly. That's the MVK. I think this debate has been held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u49	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u50	Yes, President, now I don't know if this is a complement to the answer. The minister said he wouldn't answer. I agree that the title of this question is somewhat broader and does not fall within the competence of the Minister. But look, the last time the minister is late, he's not here or, as you know, the president, I think it was not even the announcement of the Minister's absence, but the minister was simply not what I saw for the first time since 2000. My question was, or a specific question: how do you assess the statements made by the President of the Commission on the prevention of corruption relating to the work of the Minister of Justice before he was president of the KPK. More specifically, Mr Štefanec said so, because he was perceived to be wearing too many shoes, usually hearing such criticisms from the kind of coalition, but he said, "I wanted and I will never want to get into such shoes." And you know why? Now I'm going to use the parable myself for "because they're infected with the fungi of illegal action". This is therefore Mr Stefanec's assessment. This is an assessment of a person who is independent in this country who acts independently in accordance with the law. And this gentleman said that the minister acted unlawfully at the time he was performing these tasks. I don't know, President, whether you're going to intervene or not, but the situation is clear, the minister is not once in the National Assembly. I don't know. Next time he won't answer. The minister probably won't answer, I expect you to say anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u51	Mag. Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I apologized to you immediately for your delay. It was a delay, I was stuck in traffic, and that was also reported. It happens, with the ashes being poured out, I came to answer all the other questions, I was also in the middle, I was also in the beginning when the Prime Minister was answering, then I had one job and I was too late because of the congestion. I can't tell you anything else, but it was a life situation, but you can try to abuse it ten more times and use it, but it's something really normal, and I apologized to you. As for that, I told you. I will not comment on his statements as such. It's not the opinion of the commission, but the statement of a man who was in some kind of trouble, I suppose, at the MVK. By his statement, he showed himself above all. The only thing I can't comment on is admitting it was an interesting word brachure about fungi and shoes. So much for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u53	You want a word? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u54	Interesting, Mr. President. You didn't want to, you always wanted to, you didn't want to say anything about it. I agree, however, that there are life situations that can happen. I'm not making any particular problem out of this, but the bigger problem is that the minister doesn't want to answer. That's the bigger problem. I am taking this opportunity to make a proposal for a debate at the National Assembly. In the document I spoke about earlier, this is an assessment of the state, integrity, responsibility and rule of law, which is, and this should be heard by the President of the Government, and unfortunately he is no longer here, Mr Štefanec wrote so, more broadly, not only about the work of the justice minister. He says: "We have also witnessed in 2015 cases where we would expect the realization of the government's commitment to an effective fight against corruption in practice as well. For example, the government and its members were directly concerned with the cases of copyright fees and permanent readiness supplements, as alleged irregularities and integrity violations were found in connection with its members. Just before the adoption of the government code of ethics, it has further reinforced the expectations of the Commission and also the public that the government will take appropriate action and thus consolidate its anti-corruption commitment and consequently its reputation, but we have witnessed to the cities even the absurd excuses of the ministers involved and the government about why, due to the importance of individuals, there is no need to act. The government has therefore failed its own integrity test." So you fell, you sitting here, with the Prime Minister on the integrity test. I propose that we take advantage of the Minister's failure to respond in general to this issue in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u55	Dr Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September 2016, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor to ask the Minister of Justice a question. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Let's hope for more success this time. The coalition contract or coalition agreement referred to in point 4.16 shall have the title Justice and the rule of law. The text of all is for one and a half pages. I've been trying to draw the point of what you've made in this agreement. You've made a commitment to nine points. These nine points are intended to be achieved by the Minister in the mandate of the Government. Given the fact that half the term of office has passed, at these nine points, I still don't see anything happening. But the nine points are as follows. Consistency of the rule of law. Prolonged term of office with a longer probationary period. Interestingly, everyone in the Slovenian public in particular is convinced that we want to end the permanent term. We are already talking about a permanent term, at least what I remember and what I am participating in the SDS, but with a longer probationary period. I'm glad you brought it in, but you haven't done anything yet. You wrote a zero rate of tolerance for corruption within the judiciary. Establishing transparent criteria for the appointment of judges, you have written down. Open dialogue with civil society and constructive involvement of all stakeholders in the drafting of legislation. I can only congratulate you. I'd like to hear from the minister now that this is going to happen. On the last committee where we dealt with the so-called “Primitor’s Law, ” it happened — what? After six hours of discussion, the steering committee spoke as much as it was appropriate for the committee to be in charge. In all other times, Mr Primc and I spoke, but the coalition was silent. In the end, they said "net" in a vote. So no, against. It's interesting how the minister here sees this matter from this point of view of the coalition commitment. Next. Increased control over the implementation of lobbying legislation. You can't do this anyway because you're not responsible, but you wrote that in a coalition contract. Establishment of a specialised court of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm waiting for him, too, and he's not here yet. Disclosure and prosecution of officials with special powers. I'm very supportive, and there's nothing. Regulation of land registers. So that's nine sets. Minister, given your half-life, you're passing at another half-time, which we don't know how long it's gonna take, politics is politics. I want to know: What about the implementation of the coalition agreement? However, the Minister is the first to be responsible for its implementation in his field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u57	Mag. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Thank you for reminding me of the points in the coalition contract. I wasn't her co-author, but we're doing it. And we're doing a lot more than that. Let's go from the end. The Earth Book, the ZVETL which regulates this, is a complicated technical law, is in the final stages of preparation and I think it will go to the government and then to parliament this year. It is being prepared, together with the Ministry of Justice, by a broad working group, in particular at the Office of the Government of Law. As far as a permanent term or probation is concerned, I too am extremely inclined to do so. It's not true that nothing happens, because it's not like nothing happens until you see it, or until someone calls you, and it shows you. But you know you have to prepare this. Amendments to the Constitution are being prepared. However, the fact is that the last five ministers have listened in this area to bring matters to Parliament and there has not been a full consensus. I think we still have time and we'll come to this consensus. As far as corruption is concerned, you haven't read anything that you call "flower planting". The Coalition Treaty also fully implements the GRECO recommendations, which we have already done at the beginning of the mandate. A different appointment, a more objective and transparent procedure for running for judicial office, which has also been done, and today judges are otherwise elected before the Council of Justice, appointed and tested. We have also significantly increased the transparency of the functioning of the various judicial buildings in terms of tackling corruption risks, both with regard to the functioning of the ethical commissions in the Court itself, with regard to public publications, the list of deletions from the lawyers' directory. For the first time, we also requested a public publication of disciplinary and ethical infringements in the field of lawyers. I would also like to remind you that we have increased the penalties for corruption, abolished the obsolete deadlines at the time when the convict was on the run, established a special department for procedures for the confiscation of property of illegal origin in the Special Prosecutor's Office. I've had 30 new prosecutors sworn in before me, and we've changed the Offences Act. For greater legal and social security, which is an important part of strengthening the rule of law, we have ruled out criminality in the issue of classified information in the public interest, established a new crime of stalking, recriminalized victims of trafficking services and introduced new security measures such as the prohibition of approaching or communicating with the victim. As far as possible, we have also done in the area of enforcement and insurance, which is also in the coalition contract, and you have not listed this. We have replaced enforcement with a minimum net salary, limited enforcement to a veteran supplement and exempted certain social benefits from enforcement. You may also recall that we have significantly limited the possibility of abuse of personal bankruptcy. At this point, when you talk about what has not yet been done, you know, because it is at public hearing, it is becoming an interdepartmental treatment, we bring about some of the most extensive amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act and the Judicial Procedure Act. We are working on the reform of the judicial network, and the first law in the Republic of Slovenia has already been made public in this area, this is the Law on the Council of Justice, which will also redefine the disciplinary proceedings of judges. You often say that it is the planting of flowers or the bathing of beams. With all due respect, if these changes, which are one of the greatest in the last 20 years in this area, are planting flowers and bathing beams, then I hope you never come to my garden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u59	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to request a response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u60	The minister's just rude about what you want. There's shame in him, and that's why he talks like that. But I'll still be correcting you. Like you said a while ago, "I'll call you Kar Vinko" here, and I'll still call you "Mr. Minister" even though you're ten years younger. Let's go in one order. You have not been able to answer three questions, such as tighter control over the implementation of lobbying legislation, which I think you cannot even implement, you can change the law. Establishment of a Special Court and termination of the Investigation and Prosecution Department of Officials. That's the part you couldn't answer. I agree that the Law on the Council of Justice is a great progress, but it must now be adopted first, because we do not have it for once in this country. I agree that KZ can also bear something good, especially if you take it from the drawer that Mr Sturm left behind in 2008 and upgrade it, but there is nothing yet. What I called "nuts" is that codex of ethics and integrity and so on. And the Code of Ethics of Integrity, and so on, ladies and gentlemen, has been on its way. It's a triple grandmother lan, I'm sorry. That judge, that MP, that individual, that entrepreneur, if you want, that director, when I see exactly Mr. Restoring, who acts ethically, who acts responsibly, does not need any code. The code, however, is a set of rules that do not have criminal sanctions, so I called it planting flowers. Otherwise, look. You're talking about how zero tolerance in justice is. A few days ago, KPK reissued a report saying that Zvonko Fischer, the Attorney General and former Minister Zalar, acted corruptly. That's new now. This isn't what the court canceled right now, but it's new. And I could count, I'm running out of time. I think you should put it in the fourth if you want to implement the coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u61	Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I didn't mark you with Vinkot once today, even though that's your name, but I told you, Dr. Gorenak. Thanks for being here, but I couldn't tell you everything sooner, so I'm gonna do it now. As far as lobbying legislation is concerned, we're working on it. In this National Assembly, before the judicial holidays, jurisdiction for the law on integrity and prevention of corruption from the Ministry of Public Administration was transferred to the Ministry of Justice. We expect to put in a broad public debate within one month a novelty of the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, which will most closely follow the recommendations of both the OECD, which is most active in this area, and has been most closely aligned with the recommendations made by Slovenian civil society in this area. I'll expose Transparency International. In this area, I believe that progress will be made, but the fact is that this is not easy, and even in the final stage, we have only recently obtained this competence. I'm talking about a month or two. As far as the Special Branch for the Prosecution of Crimes committed by Policemen is concerned, this is one of the few things we agree on in principle. The solution in marriage is not the best. I've criticized her several times before as an expert. If I understand correctly, you have also criticised her, and the fact is that she was accepted during the first Janša government. And it's not true that there was nothing machined. In the law on criminal procedure, which is accessible, which is currently being written and currently under interdepartmental treatment and has been in public debate for two and a half months now, and you can find it on the website, the first step in this area is mainly to ensure that this authority is now competent, that is to say, only for the offences committed by police officers in connection with the performance of their duties. I think we agree here. That's the first step. And the second step is that, in fact, other organs that are armed authorities are essentially treated under equal treatment so that the police are not treated equally. I'm talking about law enforcement officers, customs officers and so on. And one last thing, a specialized court. We are very close that this decision has been taken, the text is ready, but it is not that simple to do so. And I advocate that, according to the NPU, the specialized state prosecutor's office, we also get a specialised court. I believe this will happen in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u63	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u64	Yes, thank you very much. Well, what I was saying before, I was talking about that you once did that at one of the meetings, not today, about ticking. Look, I agree if only this law will come, as far as this prosecution of police officers is concerned, it is necessary and I support this case in this direction. I can support everything else that you've just said in the end, both a specialized court and something else. And also the parliamentary group, I believe, I will propose to support such solutions. Even if you come with KZ and if this KZ is as similar as that of Mr. Sturm's time, it will be fine. Otherwise, something has to be said. Janša is responsible for everything, because Janša is used to it anyway. When you said it was accepted during the first Janša government. The first law was indeed at the time of the first Janshea government. I'm talking about this police chase. The latest, which is the one that is in force at this time, and during the time of the government of Borut Pahor. But we also need to know that, so that Janša is not to blame, so that someone else is to blame. I propose, however, that we hold a debate on this issue, the question of the implementation of the coalition agreement on justice. I cannot propose anything else, but I think that once again in the National Assembly we should discuss the implementation of the entire coalition treaty, which I cannot propose, I know, but there will probably be an opportunity for that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u65	Dr Vinko Gorenak, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September 2016, in the framework of the votes. Luka Mesec, you have the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr. Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting from me, too. My question will be about the CETA agreement, this is a trade agreement with Canada. Very similar to what the European Union concludes with the United States of America, the TTIP. CETA is in the final stage as the external ministers of the Member States of the European Union in Brussels are expected to sign this agreement on 18 October. I'm interested in a few things about that. First of all, I'm interested in: Given the fact that this Deadline is close on October 18th, has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia already adopted its final position on CETA? It was promised, or the deadline, that the Government set itself to form this position, on September 15th. But as far as we have seen, so far this issue has not been addressed at government meetings. I want to know: Did you, or if not, when will you take a position and inform citizens and citizens about it, especially with the content of the agreement, that is, what this agreement brings? Countries that have already adopted their views are increasingly distanced from this Agreement. For example, Germany requested a broader formal discussion of it, according to our information, Austria would be less inclined to do so. In this respect, I would like to know if Slovenia is in any way coordinated with these countries, as the Slovenian views have not been fully taken into account. One of the main points of the Slovenian view was that the agreement should not contain the so-called ICS mechanism, i.e. the establishment of an arbitral tribunal where multinationals could sue states, but now this mechanism in the final version of the agreement is. So my second question is: Is Slovenia coordinated with those countries requiring a broader formal debate or clarification on this agreement and how is this taking place? Then let's move on. The agreement is intended to be mixed in nature, partly within the competence of the Member States in part of the EU. That is why we will also confirm it in national parliaments. At European level, however, temporary use will be adopted without delay with a signature, which will largely suspend this debate, as the main Canadian negotiator says that 95 % of the agreement will be applied provisionally. I'm also interested in your position. And the last question is: How much time do you need to prepare, to initiate proceedings before the EU court to assess the conformity of the ITS system with the European legal system under Article 11, point 218? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u67	Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u68	Mr President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Members-in-Office, honourable Members, thank you for the question. The latest situation with regard to the CETA agreement is as follows. Done at Brussels, 16. 9. At the meeting of the Committee on Trade Policy, the Committee continued its discussion on the proposal for a decision to be signed for provisional application and for the conclusion of the CETA Agreement. The agreement has not yet been reached and we do not have a copy of the last proposal for an agreement. The government discussed the starting point last week, but the point did not end, and it will continue to be discussed once we get a copy of the latest CETA proposal. Slovenia reiterated its reservations about the ICS, stressed that the final decision would be taken by the National Assembly and drew attention to the issue of water. The European Commission will provide a written answer on this issue. The Bureau presented a new compromise proposal for a provisional application decision and the ICS is excluded from provisional application. It's a watch. The expected timing for the adoption of CETA remains unchanged, the Presidency wants to continue the political debate at the Foreign Affairs Council meeting of the Minister of Trade on 22 and 23 September, this week in Bratislava. The Canadian Minister of Economy will also attend this meeting. By the end of the month, consideration of the proposals for conclusions should be completed. The conclusions are expected to be addressed on 12 October by Coreper. They are to be confirmed at the General Affairs Council meeting on 18.10.2016. Second question. Yes, we are connecting with other countries, integration is essential, it is taking place at the professional and political level and it is a matter of exchanging views on open issues and finding solutions. Third question. The Court of Justice of the European Union held an oral hearing in Luxembourg on 12 and 13 September 2016 on the 2015 Opinion. It's a temporary use. The Court met at a general meeting, and the Judge-Rapporteur is Professor Dr. Ilešič and the Advocate-General is Mrs Sharpston. Following oral presentations by Commission agents of the European Parliament and the Council of the EU and the Member States, the Court raised questions. The oral hearing was concluded with the concluding words of the agents and 25 Member States have submitted written or oral applications throughout the procedure. The next phase is the preparation of the Advocate General's opinion. The date on which the opinion will be drawn up is not yet known. The opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the 2015 Opinion cannot be expected in our opinion before March 2017. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will also produce more detailed written information for the Government and the National Assembly. And the last question is, how much time do we need? At this point, it's hard to say how much time we'd really need. Slovenia has not yet independently proposed the procedure on the basis of that Article. In view of Opinion 2015, which could be compared to the ICS problem, I can assess that this work is for more than one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u69	Port of the Moon, you have the floor to request a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you for your answers, Mr. Secretary. But I do have two questions. The first is on the preparation of proceedings before the EU court. I ask this because, at the meeting of the Economic and Social Council on 2 September, it was decided that Slovenia should, before the conclusion of the procedure on the matter Opinion 2/15, as we discussed, make a request for an assessment of the compliance of the ICS mechanism contained in the CETA agreement to verify compliance with the EU acquis. Thus, Slovenia is expected to initiate the procedure before the completion of the procedure. On this point, I repeat the question: Will you do so, or will the Economic and Social Council's decision be taken into account? With regard to temporary use, however, the more fundamental question is: Do you not think that the temporary use of the provisions of the agreement has overshadowed the mixed nature of the agreement, for which the Government has also taken a firm stand, so that ratification in the National Assembly will be more than a formality, a performance for the public, while the agreement will virtually become applicable on 18 October with the signature of foreign ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u71	Minister of Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, you have the floor to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the key issue, and I think that we must all wait for it together, is to get to the record of what we are discussing now. This is a key reason why the Government has not completed this point as well and that we have not adopted the final position, because we cannot accept hypothetical conclusions, but we need to reach the possibility through the final text that we know why CETI is doing very well, so that we can then fully refer to our final opinion. The temporary use of the agreement or, otherwise, I must say, in this agreement, I personally and our ministry also see many positive issues, not only negative ones. It is, however, that we are trying to deal with things that are not within the competence of the European Commission in a mixed manner and must be excluded. How much confusion there is in the provisional application is once again a hypothetical question, and in some ways it is now being operated with the information you have given. I can't comment on this right now, because, as I said, we don't have that final point of view. And also the answer to the question that we intend to trigger this procedure for the ICS. The ICS is unacceptable to us. It is unacceptable and I do not imagine that in any way I could come into this agreement for a number of reasons. Nevertheless, we have good examples in existing cases with regard to ICS itself or in case of this. And again, I repeat, we are assessing that there is no need for such a mechanism between countries that have a justice system, and this is on the one hand the EU, on the other hand Canada. The EU and we, in the case of our European agreements with other countries, are also defending it when it comes to countries that do not have it at this level, and we are, frankly, also under pressure to defend one another once, on another occasion. It's true, but on different grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u73	Luka Mesec, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, for the last time, and thank you to the Minister for your answer. However, I would suggest that Members and Members hold a debate on CETI as soon as possible before this is finally adopted. As I mentioned in my opening remarks, it is an agreement that is very similar to a more infamous TTIP, only that CETO is signed with Canada, and it can bring us many bad things, no matter how you judge at the Ministry. Among other things, it is still not clear the fate of the ICS mechanisms, which we agree with the Minister that it is harmful and unacceptable for Slovenia. I think that Slovenian citizens and citizens are very little aware of the content of this Agreement, as well as Members and Members, and that, therefore, the debate on the content of this Agreement, what it brings, and how it is necessary to take action against the negative salaries contained therein, in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u75	Luka Mesec, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September 2016, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Dragan Matić has the floor to ask the Minister for Culture, Mr. Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A warm welcome to all present, in particular to the Ministers and especially to the Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Persak. Recently, there has been a lot of talk in the European area about how to encourage citizens to participate as much as possible in cultural events. This will also be devoted to part of the meeting of representatives of the Parliamentary Committees on Culture in Brussels next month. In this regard, in particular, it will be an example of a positive practice implemented in neighbouring Italy. The MMC RTV Slovenia web portal last month reported, among other things: "September will launch an 18app programme in Italy to encourage the cultural participation of young people. Interested young people who are or will be 18 this year will be able to register on the online platform and gain a bonus of 500 euros, which they will be able to spend by the end of next year in museums, theatres, books, concerts, visits to archaeological sites and other activities approved by the Ministry of Culture. The application 18app.it will simply upload to their smart phones, tablets or computers, and here the "cultural bonus" will be deducted with each visit to an artistic event. The scheme will also be accessible to other European citizens living in Italy. For the 18app programme, the Italian government earmarked 290 million euros. The bonus will make it possible for about 575,000 young people." End of quote. I want to know: Do you think about similar targeted measures at the Ministry of Culture to promote greater participation in cultural events or to improve the consumption of so-called cultural production by individual groups? I believe that it would be appropriate to prepare projects that would not necessarily have direct financial implications for the budget, such as in Italy, and could be based, for example, on the provision of a number of free tickets to public institutions or institutions financed from the state budget, which would be offered to young and socially weaker citizens in particular. In this way, accessibility to the cultural offer financed or co-financed by the State could be improved, while at the same time the structure of the participation of citizens in cultural content already financed by the State budget could be improved. I hope that this initiative has been something that, if not already, the Ministry of Culture has been thinking about in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u77	Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Peršak, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u78	Dear Mr President, honourable Member, Mr Matić! First of all, thank you for the question, which also allows us to draw attention to the efforts of the ministry and the public sector in the field of culture, how to find contact and attract cultural content, in particular generations, which have been less accessible in recent times. To begin with, there is something else about an Italian measure that shows the same difficulties and represents an interesting attempt to encourage young people. We have obtained some more information on this incentive and on the plan of the Prime Minister, President Renzio, which fully envisions an additional billion euros for culture and tourism. It is, therefore, not a fund from the foreign budget of the Ministry of Culture in Italy, but a specific cohesion fund and a plan approved in May this year, which provides an additional billion for culture and tourism. This is the so-called bonus culture of Renzi, which gives 18-year-olds the opportunity to buy books, tickets to cultural events, museums, cinemas, exhibitions, theatres. The initiative is intended to help low-income families, and the precondition for this bonus is, as has been said, a way of registering in a digital environment within which public administration services can be entered. A website is set up and so on. What are the key features of this measure? For the first time, a valuable sheepfold as an incentive is referred to as some kind of a gift of purpose. And secondly, the digital environment in which this generation is increasingly moving, which is increasingly communicating with traditional culture and art, as we see here. Let me stress that Slovenia already has a number of cultural education mechanisms that start in the pre-school period and then address citizens throughout life. One of the more important instruments is, say, the high level of co-financing of institutions and producers and, accordingly, also the opportunities offered by producers, museums, theatres and so on to the public to facilitate their access to culture. But if we thought about a similar measure in Slovenia, it would cost us about nine million euros. This is the poor 6% of the budget of the Ministry of Culture. Given that an extremely large part of the budget is divided by precisely defined legal obligations, only some programmes that should therefore be abandoned could be taken into account. Let me mention, as I said earlier, that, in particular, public institutions in the field of cultural heritage, theatres, similar public institutions already know a number of measures. From the low price of tickets, the remaining tickets that can be purchased just before the start of the event, then the so-called open-door days – once a month virtually increasing galleries and museums in Slovenia offer free entrance also for families or individuals and so on. The drama in Ljubljana, for example, knows a special project For young people, we set up new worlds funded by the funds it receives from donations. The goal is to allow children and adolescents, especially from socially disadvantaged families, to regularly visit the theater. This measure covers about seventy subscribers each year for young people. Finally, I would just like to highlight the positive features of this Italian initiative. This is that it is aimed at a population that is particularly important from this point of view, because it creates a distance to everything that is traditional, because it takes into account and seeks contact with users in the digital environment, which is the most local for this population, for many even the only media environment they live in, and because it allows them to choose freely, which is most important, not to offer them any services further, but actually to enable them to choose and thus allow them to feel activity or their own initiative. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Dragan Matić, you have the floor. You're requesting a follow-up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you for that explanation, Mr. Secretary. Maybe I was a little too explicit about my question. The point is that I did not at all aim at providing additional resources in the budget. You thought it would be worth a whole nine million. As you yourself have said, the Italian state does not directly guarantee this from its budget, but it is a cohesion fund. In this respect, I am giving you the initiative to try to align yourself with the competent institutions at home and in Europe. Certainly all these projects, which you have already presented and we know how active the Ministry of Culture is in providing certain content and offer for young and socially weaker segments of the population, is something that is commendable. However, what I wanted to stress is that, to my mind, there is still some additional space in the existing offer that we are making, we all know that not all tickets to all the shows are taken away, that all the museums and galleries are not always full of visitors, and this is the very possibility that you yourself have talked about bringing all these offers closer to young people in a way that they decide for themselves, it would be something that should be encouraged. Young people today listen both at school and by parents to do what they have to do, and then they get a suggestion in this way that they should all take part. However, I think that the perspective or success of such a measure would be so much greater if they were aware that they themselves could have a certain value and could then put it on their own terms of view, certain cultural content, that this approach would involve some attachment to their perception of the cultural offer. This would make them active, not just passive consumers of cultural production. And here it is also likely to think within the existing supply, without any additional means. However, if it is possible to obtain additional funds from cohesion funds by the example of Italy, this is, of course, a matter that is very serious to think about.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you, Dr. Matic. Minister Peršak, please, the word is yours to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you. That's exactly what I wanted, but I didn't stress enough time. Two moments are essential, and we're thinking about it. One point is that we give young people an active choice, without already offering them, and we tell them what is worth and what they need to see in every way, but that through these mechanisms, as you have mentioned them, we actually allow them to decide for themselves and to choose for themselves. In this way they actually participate actively in this, which is very important. And the second moment is communication with them. I have to say, two days ago, I spoke to one of the theatre directors, where they have already started this and are already experiencing a positive response. They started through these latest digital platforms, such as snapchat, looking for contact and young people to invite and inform them about what was happening in their theatre. They have actually received a direct response even in areas where a person would expect the majority of this population to be less interested, say in ballet and ballet productions and so on. So this is really what these two moments are about. And that is what we are thinking about now, and in the Ministry we are intensively discussing how to achieve this and what it takes to enable them to make active choices and to establish communication with them in this way and in the environment in which they communicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the question of the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, and the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, my question will be to build a road infrastructure that would relieve the most burdensome tourist settlements. In this case, I'm going to focus on the white railing or the bypass, both north and south. I know it might be a little embarrassing that that's the question today. Tomorrow we have an interpellation against the minister. Perhaps today the minister will promise everything as he has already promised in the past month, virtually no matter what he has said he will not carry it out. But still. On Monday, we had a day for the field, so last week, at the invitation of the SDS Councilman’s group from Bled Municipality, I visited this congregation, met with the municipal administration, and took a look at the matter. Also at the regional coordination of the SDS in Gorenje, we said that currently in Gorenje, one of the absolute infrastructure priorities for the construction of Bled Oblasts is. That's why I'm interested in the following. We know that it is currently best to show above all this northern highway, which is supposed to be spent somewhere between €8 million and €10 million. The project falls under both the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Infrastructure, at least so Bled reported last year when the Ministry of Economy called on municipalities to report various projects through the BSC. From what I've heard, the Ministry of Economy has chosen three from the region of Gorenje, but I don't know if this project is also among those who will then go to phase two. And the second phase is when you're looking for funding from different ministries. As far as the north road is concerned, only municipal and state co-financing are possible at the moment. The path is already reconstructed. For one time, everything was done by the congregation, the reconstruction of two existing roads, Seliška and Rečiška, about a total length of about 1.3 kilometers, was completed or in progress, and the land was purchased. As far as this northern bypass is concerned, I am particularly interested in: How is the purchase of the land already acquired in the light of the funds provided in this year’s budget, namely, the purchase of the land of the State from the congregation, since the municipality has already purchased the land? Given the agreement that it is and the plan, I am particularly interested in: Is it possible, as outlined, to open up before the high tourist season in 2018, so to speak, on July 1st? As far as the southern highway is concerned, we are here a little longer than the plans or the reality itself, but I am interested in the fact that the matter would stand there somewhere between 25 million and 30 million: How many land purchases have the Ministry already provided since 1.2 million euros were provided this year?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Minister Zdravko Restoršek. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u86	Mr President, Members, honourable Members, thank you for the question! At the outset, I would like to point out that at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology we are familiar with the issue of the burden of tourist settlements such as Bled. Of course, we are aware that Bled is not the only settlement facing this problem in Slovenia. While planning and building new transport routes are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I can tell you that we support them at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology in terms of projects aimed at faster development of tourism and at the same time having a positive impact on the quality of life of the population in this environment. The development of tourism generally means the development of the place, the preservation of cultural heritage, means the development of infrastructure, the provision of new jobs. Tourism brings more positive than negative issues, it is said that it has a multiple impact on the entire environment in economic and other ways. With appropriate solutions, there are no negative consequences and the best effects are achieved through successful cooperation between the local community, tourism operators and the entire local population. I propose, however, that specific infrastructure issues be addressed by a colleague, Minister Gasperšič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you, Minister Restoration. Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Jean Mahnic! Undoubtedly, adequate road infrastructure is one of the key prerequisites for successful tourism development. We are also aware of this at the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is why the plans contained in the proposal for a national infrastructure development programme contain precisely these most important transport links. The proposal for this national programme contains both the new construction of development axes and the new construction of suburban areas beyond settlements, where existing infrastructure no longer provides an adequate level of services to transport participants. Let me just mention a few of the most important sections of this kind. Here are undoubtedly the southern and northern rims of Bleda, the western bypass of New Town, the outskirts of Celje, Krske, Brežice and could still be listed. This plan contains more than 40 projects of railways, construction of the development axis to Koroška, to Belo Krajina, appropriate transport links also between Ljubljana and Kočev and then towards the border crossing with Croatia. The set of these projects was carefully selected on the basis of the transport model, taking into account transport needs and the economics of projects. The program also has a framework implementation timer, that is, when it will be designed, when it will be built. However, the key challenge in the coming years is to provide adequate and necessary financial resources for both Dars and the Infrastructure Directorate in order to enable these projects to be implemented. In view of the fact that you also mention the bypass of Bled in your question, I will briefly give you some basic information on these two projects. The Northern bypass, at this point in time, is the final phase, the fourth phase, and the revision of the project documentation for the second and third phases is also being completed, and the redemptions for the second and third phases are being carried out. The Infrastructure Directorate also plans to publish in 2017 an invitation to tender for the construction of this second and third phases, which will be fully completed in spring 2018, so that the conclusion in this northern part will be expected before the high summer season in 2018. With regard to southern traffic, this year and the following year, the necessary land will be repurchased. I do not have the right information here, as many of these have already been realized, and I can continue to do so. After these purchases have been made, the Directorate will also obtain a building permit in 2018 and carry out an invitation to build in particular at this first section from the Rondoi to the entrance portal of the covered tunnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u89	Jean Mahnic wants to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you, Vice President. I definitely agree with the Minister of Economy that Bled is not the only settlement with such a problem. But you probably agree with me that Bled is probably the only settlement in Slovenia, which is on every tourist prospect, if not at home, and certainly abroad. And that's what Bled's all about. The whole country is pounding on our chests, what an island we have, what a tourist offer we have, and when there is actually a problem not only of tourists, but of the local population in particular, there is a problem. The Minister of Economy probably cannot imagine what it would be like to have a state road run half a meter away from the Hotel Sotelia or Aparthotel Rosa to have trucks passing by. This is what they wanted in the thermals of Olimia because he was a director for many years. I'd like to ask the Minister of Infrastructure if you can send me in writing, if possible, what's the amount of purchased land we're talking about the southern bypass. You also did not answer me about the purchases in this amount, as agreed, or whether they were already purchased land when the state in the agreement undertook to buy those lands, which the municipality had already purchased by the locals. The northern bypass will certainly relieve the bottlenecks created there mainly by the visit of the castle during the summer months of the year, about 350 thousand. Then the road to the Lip Bled industrial zone, the transport of the shade there takes place with Plukes and so on. It'll take some time for the south, but I think there's plans to be an opening out there somewhere in 2021. And only in connection with this: Mr Minister, is it true that at the Ministry of Infrastructure, by the end of the year, you still have about 100 million euros left, which you do not know how they will be spent? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u91	You, too. Dr. Gaspersich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much for these additional questions. As far as the northern bypass is concerned, both Bleds are definitely extremely fine. We know what kind of situation Bled is in every day. These projects are extremely urgent, and we have also provided the Ministry with in this first scale an increase in the resources allocated to investments in road infrastructure, both in renovations and in new construction, in fact, these two carriers have first come into line. As it is said, all these ransoms will be dissolved for the northern bypass and will also be agreed in the agreement envisaged for signature with the congregation this month. However, as you have already mentioned, it is crucial that these necessary funds, in addition to what we will provide in the budgets by 2018, are provided below, i.e. in the budgets 2019, 2020 and 2021. Because we know that this carousel is also crucial to Bled himself. As far as the funds to be left at the Ministry of Infrastructure are concerned, this is the case. We have around 100 million euros available in this year's budget for investments in road infrastructure. This means that these funds are used intensively. A number of calls are underway to be activated. These investments will continue to be activated this year so that the use of these funds is expected to be more secure this year. However, if any of these investments are not activated quickly enough due to either some complications in the broadcasting of works and so on, these funds, which are not spent this year, shall be transferred to the following year. This is about the use of earmarked funds to invest in road and rail networks. These are funds collected on an annual basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Ministers and Minister of Agriculture Mag. Diane jedan! This year, the company Slovenski state forestovi d.o.o., mainly for the purpose of and with the aim of starting the wood processing industry in Slovenia, increasing the added value to the sold wood, is said to be refrigeration, and primarily for the stable provision of wood to the Slovenian processing industry, is said to wood companies. That's why I'm interested in: How much wood was cut from the start of operation to the 31.8th, and how much was sold? Then I also want to know: Why do some domestic buyers not get contracts and cannot buy wood from Slovenian forests, although one of the objectives was to establish a company to provide Slovenian companies? I also want to know: How is it that wood is sold without payment insurance? I also want to know: Who will be responsible for the consequences of default if these companies, which are not secured by some bank guarantee, are not paid within the time limit? In order to implement parts of the cutting and harvesting of wood in Slovenian forests, it was necessary to provide a bank guarantee, and this was not the case with purchase or sale contracts. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u95	Minister Dejan Židan, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament and, in particular, distinguished Mrs Iva Dimic, thank you for the current question! Allow me to answer in two parts. In the first part, I have to read something that I believe we both believe in, namely that the Slovenian National Forest Company already provides in Article 1 that the company itself operates under a code of cooperative management of companies with capital investment accepted by the Slovenian State Holding Company, that is, according to OECD standards and guidelines, which essentially protects this society in some way from politics and allows it to operate strictly professionally. In accordance with the above, the management of the company and the conclusion of commercial transactions shall be responsible for the management of the company and shall exercise control over its work by the Supervisory Board. The company Slovenian National Forests, d. o. o., has a fully functioning management and supervisory board composed of eminent economists, so I have asked the company for answers and allow me to give you a brief summary of their answers. The first question is how much wood was cut and sold. The company reported that 84.746.77 cubic metres of wood had been cut, including an invoiced value of EUR 5,065 million in value added tax. Another question is why some domestic buyers do not get contracts and cannot buy wood from Slovenian forests. Here's the answer. The company does not have completely free deadlines in the design of the sales policy, first of all it is limited to the structure of forest and forest ranges envisaged for cutting, and is further limited to the large volume of so-called C decisions on sanitary cutting, with which the company also wants to limit the spread of the parcel. There is something else that we need to know that the company is managing and masters of the state forest, which represents only 20% of all Slovenian forests. For this reason, it is also understandable that it cannot be sufficient for everyone, but according to a temporary business plan, it is envisaged that the company will cut and sell 550 thousand cubic metres of forest-forest ranges this year, of which around 340 thousand cubic metres of Iglav and 210 thousand leaves, and so far the company has concluded 90 contracts with different buyers and thus sold 80 % of the estimated quantity for 2016. And the third question of how to sell wood, who is responsible for financial consequences. The basis is the framework, these are the terms, criteria and criteria of sales, which are published on the website, where the maximum payment deadline is also set for 45 days. The company, as any prudent operator, also checks the individual customer's credit rating before the contract is concluded and, on this basis, lays down the payment conditions. Thus, customers who have a poor credit rating have the possibility of paying according to the budget or advance. Most buyers are listed within the payment period of 15 to 30 days. Except the buyers have a 45-day payment period. SIDG is, of course, an economic company that operates on the market and takes risks. As a result, the company has a risk management policy. It is normal that risks cannot be avoided, but it is crucial that it knows them and that it takes measures to minimise risks and, above all, manage them. As a last question, it is very clear that the consequences of non-payments exceeding an acceptable level are in any event responsible for management and risk management controls and checks the supervisory board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you, Minister of the Jews. Mrs. Iva Dimic, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I agree with what you said. I partially agree, but still. Slovenian buyers expected from a newly established company that had clear objectives written down to be able to access Slovenian wood, without saying now that the supply of wood is even worse, that they have to buy – and the saddest is this – Slovenian wood and drive it back. These are Slovenian producers that process the cold even to the end of the product. All I want is your answer: When can these producers expect – I am sure that you know who, if not known, we will also convene a meeting of the National Assembly in the coming weeks – that they will be able to sign contracts for the sale of Slovenian timber to them, so that there will be no need to carry out a logistical matter through Austria? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u99	Minister of the Jews, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u100	Here I have a kind wish, but I believe it is perfectly aligned with the New Slovenia economic programme. I hope that we will never, but never, not Members and Members of Parliament, nor Ministers will determine with whom an economic society owned by the State should operate and with whom it should not operate. Let me tell you one more time. The Slovenian National Forest Economic Company manages and manages 20% of Slovenian forests. This is significantly less than demand. The call for the buyer was made public. Through this call, society has chosen, according to some of its criteria, which I believe are good. Of course, there's a lot of information coming to me. Those who have apparently received wood that is now more accessible to wood are thanking and saying that it is very good to have this economic society. Customers who have not received are, of course, asking the same questions as you, Madam Member. But once again I would like to say, I hope never, but really never, Members and Members and Minister or Government will not decide who society should deal with and who it does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you, Minister Dejan Jidan. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u102	To propose a broader discussion on the follow-up to the objectives for which the Slovenian National Forest Company was established. We have set targets to be pursued by this company. The objectives are verifiable, and I think it would make sense to do some analysis after the first three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u103	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September, in the framework of the votes. Mr Franc Jurša will raise the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u104	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. As already noted by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the procedures for the appointment and discharge of members of the supervisory boards and administrations of companies under the dominant influence of the State are often totally unacceptable in terms of transparency and ethical standards. The management of the appointment of members to public authorities should be primarily of expertise and, of course, of legality. In practice, we are faced with cases where public calls for members of the boards of institutions are not even published and the ministries themselves are submitting proposals to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me illustrate the case. Members of the pensioner's home office were forwarded to the Government by your Ministry without invitation to tender, which was then appointed by the decision of these members. On the basis of that village, Madam Minister, I ask the following questions: Under what rules and under what criteria does the Ministry decide which public authorities are to be issued and which public authorities do not need to be published? So I'm asking you: Under what criteria does the Ministry decide which candidates must apply for a public invitation to tender and who do not need to apply for a public invitation to tender – since they are proposed by the Ministry to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as representatives of the institution's council, without a call and without a call? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u105	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members, honourable Members Mr Jurša! In the beginning, I should like to explain that it follows from the Board of Directors' Act that the composition, method of appointment or election of members of the Board of the institution, the duration of the mandate and the powers of the Council shall be determined by law or act establishing the institution or by statute or rules. However, the Regulation, which regulates the composition of the councils of the institution, which fall within the framework of the functioning of our ministry, is the Social Protection Act. The law provides that a social security institution shall be administered by the Council of the Institution and that a more detailed composition and numbering relationship of representatives to the Council of the Institution shall be determined by the founder by means of an act establishing it. Nowhere in the law, statute or regulation is it stipulated that the Ministry of the Appointment of Council Members of the Office must publish a public call. It follows from the statutes of public welfare institutions that representatives of the founder are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2009, the selection and appointment of Council members in public institutions took place through public calls led by the Human Resources Accreditation Council. As a result of the suspension of the operation of the Kas in 2010, the ministries independently ran the selection procedures for the appointment of members of the boards of the institution. The Ministry of Labour collected its members through public calls published on the Ministry's website and accessible to the general public. Since June 2012, the Ministry has no longer issued public calls for each institution, but has decided to publish a standing call on the website and has appointed candidates who have submitted an application to the IMF. In 2012, so-called the largest number of boards of the institution. In May 2013, when I took over the Ministry's mandate, the Ministry re-established public calls for each institution individually and set more difficult criteria, as in some institutions the appointed members were not competent and qualified to perform such a function. Candidates must also demonstrate compliance with the following conditions: at least higher education – formerly secondary education, and we have changed this in May 2013 – that there is no official in the executive branch, membership in a maximum of two institutions of the institution, that it is not in a business relationship with the public institution. In addition to the selection of candidates, the following criteria are taken into account: the desired expertise in the field of social protection, finance and law, the desired knowledge of governance and governance, knowledge and experience in the field of public institutions, at least 5 years of work experience, knowledge of social issues in the local environment, reputation and activity in the local environment. The candidate is still expected to have general visibility and other useful knowledge, communication skills, teamwork capabilities. The term of office of members shall be four years, but may cease if a member of the Council is recalled, on his own request or for other reasons. In their statutes, institutions shall have specific responsibilities and powers of the Council of the Institute. In exceptional cases, the mandate of certain representatives shall be terminated prematurely, on the ground that a member of the Council has resigned or any other reasons which have arisen on the part of a member of the Council. In some cases, however, in order to ensure the legal and effective management of the institution and on the initiative or other appointed members of the board of the institution or by management, the replacement of certain members of the board of the institution also took place prematurely or before the end of the term of office. The IMF's proposal and procedures for amending Council members could only be carried out by representatives of the founders, while the other members could, of course, have been replaced by those appointed. In cases where the replacement of a member or several members in relation to the management procedures of the establishments has been sufficient time, the Ministry has always issued a standard public call. However, in cases where the procedures carried out in the institution, such as the adoption of a financial, human resources plan, the appointment of a director, the professional manager, the adoption of emergency other acts of the institution and others, it was necessary to act quickly, the appointment of the Ministry, in order to ensure continuity, to ensure the rapid selection and appointment of representatives of the founder. In such cases, the Ministry of Aid for Appointment shall refer to the professional public, the Chamber or the local community, but this is an exception rather than a rule. As can be seen, the ministry in practice has raised standards and we are trying to do so wherever possible. The fact is that, according to the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, he appoints the founder of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you, Minister Anja Kopach Dark. Mr. Franz Jurša, would you like a word to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thanks for the explanation. You've given me a very good explanation, and I understand him, but I'd like to ask you a further question. In practice, it actually happens that a certain number of members of a public institution, a public institution, are appointed without public appeal. In some cases, however, things are carried out differently and this is not a public call. Now I just want to know: In the future, will you advocate that in most cases, or that a hundred percent go into making a public appeal, and based on this choice, then also be appointed to the world of the institution by the Government?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like a word to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u110	Absolutely. As I said, it is absolutely always, even like the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour – always. Other practices in other ministries are different, but I think that in 200 institutions there were only a few cases where it was direct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u111	Mr Jan Škoberne will ask the Minister of Labour for the Family and Social Affairs and the same opportunities as Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the last meeting of the assembly prior to the summer holidays, an important debate was opened in the context of the debate on amendments to the Succession Act, which addresses the issue of the arrangements for the return of social cash assistance and the protection allowance in the event that the beneficiary had property from which it could be paid in order to say so, this contribution by the State, the Community, in ensuring the decent life of the citizen. This has happened in a manner or is regulated under the applicable legislation by having a real estate seal in case of course the beneficiary has a real estate. The logic of this arrangement is in some ways simple and clear; as long as someone has the property he can afford, of course, it is logical that in the event that they at the same time benefit from State intervention, the state after his death from this "remuneration". However, by a measure which could in some cases be logical, we have also caused a situation of deterrence when people who really needed these supplements did not decide for them because they could own property that had been owned by several generations of a family and had some existential fear that after the death of the beneficiary of the financial social assistance or the protective allowance, they would also have been deprived of the property in which they lived to pay the state. Since this is a serious problem, it has been clear in recent days in the media that you have decided to change this system in a way that, of course, protects the property in which the beneficiary lives. In this regard, I am therefore interested in: What solution is envisaged by the Government and what effects do you expect mainly in the light of the increase in the beneficiaries of these measures? What effects do you expect in terms of ensuring a decent life for all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Scoberne. The text is by the Minister, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Members and Members, my dear Member, thank you for the question. There has been much talk about social transfers to the most vulnerable. Although the risk of poverty is decreasing, we still have people living among us who are difficult or very difficult to come in a month. In some ways, however, we have the most information ahead of us when people who meet the conditions of their income and would be entitled to financial social assistance and a security allowance do not do so because they are property owners. In Slovenia, there is a specific picture, we have more than 85% of property owned by people – this is a unique one in Europe, where these percentages are significantly lower - and for us there is a greater attachment to these properties and at the same time an intergenerational connection. So this desire to transfer property from the generation that it was currently creating to the younger ones, to the descendants, is very present. It was never natural for something like this to happen. Data on the increased share of protective supplements also show that some of the people in this fear have gotten rid of them, but not to an acceptable extent, because data show that when we look at the recipients of the protective supplement, they are already more than 50% of young people who are unable to work, that is, especially disabled people, while the proportion of older people is falling. But this is when we compare it with the level of poverty and see that between single older women this is the highest, so this is not some reason for joy, but a reason for action. On the basis of all this data and because we are doing better in the country, we have decided to make legislative changes – today or tomorrow will also be in public debate. The key solution is that the beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and the security allowance are those who live in poverty, so they do not have enough income to survive and are owners and living, so they have a permanent residence in a property worth up to €120,000. Such individuals will be able to receive a protective allowance or financial social assistance without any return. We are changing the property condition because, to date, it has been considered that only those with a superior area have been assessed – and the fact is that today, rarely, the recipients of monetary social assistance have also been those who own up to EUR 500 000, which is not fair to us, so based on estimates of what the average value of property in Slovenia is, we have set this limit. I believe that this solution is good for most beneficiaries to apply for financial social assistance. Above all, there is another important change, we abolish the institute of markings and also the marks for re-entry will be on official duty – we are also negotiating with the Ministry of Justice how they will be withdrawn. Why? In these years, the country has gained a little back, while preventing people from enjoying this property freely, which, of course, has not turned out to be appropriate, because we expect people to be able to activate their assets to solve their situation. The country has not been fast enough in these procedures and it has made this impossible and, of course, it is a proposal to withdraw all these markings. So I hope that the law will enter into force with 1. 1. 2017 that these things will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you, Minister. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask a question from the Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnik, who is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I'd like to say it myself. Obviously, there's an election at the door. What we have just heard is nothing more than the sharing of social-democrat mints, which are those who are guilty of making such a stupid decision. Well, now I'm going to the question. It is very problematic and very irresponsible that the current government and coalition support a policy that leads Slovenia in an undisputed way. I therefore ask Minister Koprivnik: How is it possible that this government, in the given circumstances, when the state pays more than a billion euros only for interest, while this year's deficit in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will again exceed a billion euros, affords the incredible wealth of the state and public sector, which has increased by more than 4,000 new jobs in a year? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia obviously lives in another world and expects to be able to take and share from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia even if it borrows at a high interest rate and continues to be headlessly spending what the country has not produced. This means that the poor are in advance of the generations that come after us and are indebted to them without any conscience. I am convinced that the voters and voters of the coalition parties did not vote to impoverish the property of their children and grandchildren, so it is clear that Cerara's government and SD, Desus and SMC parties are using the votes they received. Nevertheless, the government boasts of the decline in the number of unemployed. The fall in the number of unemployed at the expense of employment in public administration and mass employment outside the country is the mockery and in the ridicule of all Slovenes and Slovenes who maintain a wealthy state apparatus with minimum wage. Instead of making pre-election promises of new ethical standards, fairness, justice, the promotion of a slim public and state administration, assistance to the real sector in employment, responsible governance of state property, the rule of law, where everyone before the law will be equal, continue to take on an extremely corrupt policy called the decommissioning of privileged and corrupt mafias, which can steal, manipulate, stage and destroy all generations that follow us. That's why I'm asking: How does it justify such an unreasonable increase in new employment in government and public administration? Second: When will the government and the ministry start a serious reform in this area, where greater efficiency of state and public administration will be achieved? When will she approach the promise to make the public and state administration lean and effective? And the third question: Where were these jobs created, precisely in which sectors and how much and were they really necessary and necessary? I await the written reply of Minister Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the question of the Foreign Minister, Mr Karl Erjavac, who is absent today. Here you go, Mr. Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The 5th International Conference of Africa's Day was held in May this year at the co-organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Ljubljana. This was a unique opportunity to remember what a political, cultural and economical continent this is. Personally, I believe that Africa is still strongly linked to the stereotype of the continent of conflict and underdevelopment due to the current issue of migration and related challenges. I would like the Republic of Slovenia to be in a group of those countries that can identify Africa as a whole of opportunities and African countries as partners in addressing contemporary challenges in the international community. While cooperation at economic level with African countries is still very weak, it is appropriate to take advantage of past experiences and links and to strengthen them in the present. Among the varied range of opportunities offered by Africa, there is a key presence on the ground with an appropriate dense network of diplomatic and consular representations. The Slovenian diplomatic network with the African continent now has only one point of reference, and this is the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Cairo. In view of the situation outlined, the diversity of Africa, the open untapped opportunities and the past that we can take advantage of in the present also in the form of hereditary assets after the former Yugoslavia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, the Minister, I am referring to the following question: Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs preparing a plan to reorganise the network of diplomatic and consular representations, and what plans does it have for Africa? What role will this play after the former Yugoslavia in the form of properties granted to Slovenia, particularly in Morocco, Tanzania and Mali? I think it is particularly interesting to open an embassy in Tanzania or by replacing property in Zambia, because this part of Africa is experiencing economic development, but it is not adequately diplomatically covered by any of the successor countries of our former common country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Rajic. As is customary on such occasions, I ask you whether you want an answer in writing within 30 days or if you insist on an oral response and put it into the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u120	I'd like an oral response, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u121	Mr Jože Tanko will ask the question of the delegation, namely, the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. The fact is that Škofljica is one of those traffic bottlenecks that appear daily in traffic information. In 2003, it was placed or introduced into the National Program for the Construction of the Škofljica motorway along the Bar, and the fact is also that Natura 2000 was announced shortly after that, which partly covered the route envisaged at the time. Then this Natura spread a little bit. But that's part of the problem. The second part of the problem is that, at this time, in those tens or fifteen years, there is no environmental problem, there is virtually nothing done to place the problem in the area of this enclosure. There are three ministers in this government, two former Minister of the Environment and the current Minister of the Environment, and nothing has been done in this area at this time. As part of a visit to the Government on 11 May this year in central Slovenia, the signing of a protocol between two departments was envisaged, namely the Ministry of Transport and the Environment and 13 mayors. Now this signature would have been received in Skofljica and the fact is that everyone has signed this, except the Ministry of the Environment, did not participate in this signing of the Protocol. They say no explanation. That the problem is even bigger, you are September 12th, said a few days ago, you convened a meeting with the mayors at the Ministry of Environment and Space to discuss meeting or placing this car in the space. You called him in your meeting room and you, Minister, there was no meeting, no one from the Ministry to explain anything at this meeting. I'm asking you: How do you deal with the problems of 70, 80, 000 people who are daily choked by this narrow throat? What are the cardinal obstacles that prevent anything in the area of space from being done? Why hasn't anything actually moved in these 10 years? Every time, there are new obstacles to each meeting, new obstacles and it is obvious that this department is not governed by politics, not led by a minister, but led by officials who in some way disagree with the placement of Škofljica in the territorial acts of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking you: When are you going to clear up these issues, put an end to them, and what is the timetable for action?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u123	Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u124	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Jože Tanko, Commissioner, thank you for the question. In stating that the signing of the Protocol, the agreement to be signed or signed by the Minister of Infrastructure and the Mayors was not without an explanation, the more abstracting of some articles, since the Ministry of Infrastructure was transmitted, as regards reservations, my reservations to the signing of the Protocol, or we proposed an amendment to one of the articles which would define a different course of placement procedures and not to indicate that there was a need to take over the public interest in putting into space. Both the minister and at least two mayors I personally met on the night before the signing were informed, and I also gave personal reasons. The mayors wanted to conduct this interview, where my explanation would be wider, or all the mayors would be present, and we coordinated the meeting in July. The month of July is less difficult for me, there are not so many other obligations, I am present at the Ministry all the time in July, but the mayors had problems because it is true that the month of July and August are intended for vacations, and they were absent. After co-ordination, we agreed on this meeting in September, but since I had a meeting at the Ministry of Public Administration earlier, my colleagues informed the mayors that I was late to come but that I was late, and after my arrival at 14.35, the office was empty and the mayors had already left. But it's true that I couldn't tell the mayor anything else that I'm about to tell you. So, he's been planning and moving into the space for a very long time now, you yourself have indicated since when. That this location is difficult, but above all, the fact that the Ljubljana Barium has the status of a landscape park is an important part of the Natura 2000 network and that the part where the meadows are located is on the Unesco list, i.e. the world heritage, is protected by numerous natural values and rich biodiversity; from grasslands to plant and animal species and habitats of endangered bird species. It is the Ministry of Environment and Space that must protect this biodiversity. All this needs to be taken into account in the preparation of the environmental recommendation. It is true that the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for the Škofljica Oblast has calmed down and is thus 27 years old. 12. also took note of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, 26. 6. In 2014, before my performance, i.e. taking over the post of Minister, the European Commission was informed of this. The European Commission has launched a preventive procedure on the matter, we all know these matters, EU Pilot No 3931/12/ENVI. In this process, it verified the adequacy and consistency of procedures in the Republic of Slovenia in relation to Articles 6 and 7 of the Habitat Directive. In its preventive procedure, the European Commission assessed that the proposed restrictive measures in view of the impact on Natura 2000, the Ljubljana Barje and the Ljubljanska Barje Regional Park could not be mitigating measures, but that Slovenia must consider all other options and alternatives in this case to address the transport problem. The Commission's finding was also that by incorporating the public benefit predominance procedure in the Natura 2000 area, it was possible only if there were no other possibilities for regulating traffic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much. How the Government works, we have seen in this case when one joint document is prepared to sign the protocol, one minister comes, the other not. The government is expected to address this and ensure this participation. The second problem is that in Slovenia, obviously, things are written for the European Commission by those who are against the projects. In this case, it is difficult to get rid of the feeling that the narrators, the Ministry of the Environment have written legal and substantive grounds for the European Commission to decide on this basis. This can come out of your reply and in such cases it is likely difficult to expect any body at European level to decide otherwise than with all these documents. On 1 September, you wrote in your reply to the Member's question that the creation of alternative habitats for certain species that are there are supposed to be endemics has been unsettled since 2005. Ten years this lasts, eleven years this lasts — it's not done! It is also not based on this letter on a methodology for assessing the acceptability of interventions on agricultural land. So I'm asking: What does your department do if the two documents that are the basis aren't assigned, we don't have them made? Narawars – and you probably signed this proposal – write an initiative or proposal to the European Commission and then explain to us that something is not going to happen. I'm asking you: What are the concrete steps taken to place this ring in the area of Barja?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u127	Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u128	Dear Member! I am sure you know that we do not write applications to the European Commission at the Ministry. Last but not least, we all remember when applications were made to the European Commission in the case of the maintenance of floodwaters, and I am sure that most citizens know that this does not appear in the ministry. But it is true that anyone can turn to the European Commission. The provisions that apply to various procedures – and the Habitat Directive is one of the oldest environmental directives, is that directive that we must respect in all Member States. It is Slovenia – it can be rich, but it can be an obstacle as it is in the case of Škofljica Oblast – it is rich with Natura 2000, we are approaching 40%. This means that the task of the State is the duty of the State to protect this national wealth. But when we talk about the predominance of public interest, we are talking about the need to regulate and test other options for transport itself. We know that in the event of the introduction of a better traffic pass for Kočevsko, measures will be implemented, the connection to the Šmarje-Sap motorway. The State Spatial Plan has been adopted for this connection since 2011 and must only be implemented. As we are already aware, it is the regulation of the railway against Kočev, i.e. other means of transport, it is the implementation of parking parks and ridges, the implementation of circulars, the regulation of traffic on the Dolenjska road, it is a matter of greater public transport arrangements; therefore, more measures are meant to solve this problem. In the event that all of this is not possible, then we can go into a process of predominance of public interest. If I speak on behalf of those species that are protected, and in Barja, that's an ostrich. Okarček, if he had the opportunity to live anywhere else, surely his settlement in Slovenia would be large enough and there would be no need to be a protected species in the Ljubljana Bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Jože Tanko, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not satisfied with the Minister's response. In fact, the answer is the one that is likely to be given by all those who are interested in regulating this traffic stop; it is said to do everything to ensure that nothing is done. I did not ask for any measure taken by the Ministry of Transport, including what you have already listed, is the park and the ride, is public passenger traffic arranged and extended, trains, this is all arranged and still columns, still like ten years ago. So all of these intrusive measures do not have sufficient weight given the frequency that is happening there to address this problem. It is interesting that all the mayors of this area, including local, scaffolding, agree to make a bypass along the trade zone and to join the highway near Barjo. All clear, no exceptions. The key problem is that either part of the agricultural or nature-protection profession is one that does not want to block these matters, does not want to define alternative habitats, does not want to determine the factor for which additional areas need to be provided for some animals that are there — if they are. Or are they just there, the second question is probably not, because some animals are flying, some are running, and they're moving everywhere. If you expand the habitat, they expand, if you move it, they move, and in this case it is only that some officials, apparently at the Ministry, decided not to release the project at any cost in a certain part of the Ministry. Interestingly, in some other, even highway sections, there were similar nature - conservation problems. What someone remembered was that it was a problem, and it was a problem. And it's been a problem for 10 years. I am asking you – and therefore I expected an answer: What will you do to finally come up with a clean, substantive solution, where the conditions will also be met, so that we know how much substitute habitat to provide for extinct or almost extinct animals? Now I hear you've discovered one that has already been considered extinct. And: What methodology will arise or be needed to assess the acceptability of the intervention? It's not there, and you're here blocking all procedures. Madam Minister, I expected concrete steps from you with a timetable, that was not the case, and I have also warned you about that and specifically asked you and, unfortunately, I cannot be satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u131	Mr Tanko, you are probably suggesting that your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September, in the framework of the votes. [[…]] Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen, will ask the next question. Here you go, Mr. Hanzek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister Irena Majcen, on 12 December 2015, in Paris 195 countries and the European Community reached a climate agreement, which, for the first time in history, brought together both developed countries and those in development. On the day of the Earth, 22 April of this year, 175 countries, including the European Union, signed their signatures on behalf of Slovenia by the President of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar, at the headquarters of the United Nations. In early September, the Paris climate agreement was ratified by China and the United States of America, which together contribute 40% of global emissions. As is known, the agreement will enter into force once it has been ratified or otherwise confirmed at home by 55 countries representing 55% of all greenhouse gas emissions. In June, the Ministers for the Environment of the European Union were committed to ratifying the agreement as soon as possible. At that time, you told the media that Slovenia could start the ratification process as soon as the agreement was confirmed in the European Parliament, which you said would be expected by the end of the year. That's why I'm asking you: Why does Slovenia have to start the process of ratifying the climate agreement only after confirmation in the European Parliament, since we have signed it ourselves and we will have to carry out our obligations under the agreement ourselves? Second: How far are we by preparing binding climate targets for Slovenia, an obligation we have undertaken by signing an agreement? Third time. The national energy concept will undoubtedly be one of the key tools for meeting national climate objectives. How do you plan to ensure consistency between the content and the timing of the adoption of both climate objectives and the national energy concept, since both documents are ultimately endorsed by the National Assembly? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u134	Mr Matjaž Hanžek, thank you for the question. It is true that all the Member States of the European Union have individually committed themselves to the need for the signing of the climate agreement, and it is also true that this forecast, which has been covered, is still a matter of negotiating between individual members of the European Union. However, according to the ratification timetable, the adoption of the draft climate energy framework legislation within the European Union by 2030 and Member States will implement the commitments of the Paris Agreement for the period 2020 to 2030. The European Commission adopted a draft legislative framework for sectors not included in the greenhouse gas trading scheme, i.e. the ETS, and adopted LULUCF for the land use sectors in July this year. Negotiations on these proposals will begin shortly. However, it appears that the threshold for the entry into force of the Paris Agreement could be reached earlier than some expected, probably by the end of this year, or perhaps even by the Marrakesh Climate Conference, which will take place in November. There was also a meeting last week in Bratislava, and it is therefore agreed that the European Union and the Member States should speed up the ratification process as much as possible. To this end, an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers for the Environment is convened in Brussels at the end of the month, where ministers would consider and adopt a decision of the Council on the ratification of the Agreement on behalf of the European Union and present a timetable for the completion of ratification by the Member States. This means that we have already started this agreement not only to prepare, but also to translate it properly and we want it to be immediately after this September 30th meeting. 9. is, then passed into the procedure itself. On the second issue, I can say that Slovenia has adopted an operational programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. In this Agreement, the programme includes or specific sectoral objectives until 2030. These objectives coincide with the objective of 15 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in sectors outside the emission trading scheme, which is a national target proposed by the European Commission for Slovenia in July this year in order to share the European Union's common objective among Member States. These objectives are part of the European Union climate-energy package by 2030, which is now fully under consideration and negotiations are expected to be completed by the end of next year. After the negotiations have been concluded, we will proceed to the revision of the operational programme and to prepare further measures. The Paris Agreement also envisages the preparation of long-term strategies for transition to a low-carbon society that is expected to be ready by 2020. We still have this assignment to attend to. Among other things, the Paris Agreement includes commitments in the area of climate change adaptation, which is a commitment that we will begin to fulfil by the end of this year when a strategic framework for climate change adaptation is adopted. This has been in preparation for a long time and will be submitted to public hearing no later than October. On the third issue, the coherence of strategic documents is a constant challenge, particularly in the area of climate change policy. This policy of climate change includes a number of sectoral policies. We believe that a strategic view of climate policy needs to be properly placed in the umbrella strategy for the development of Slovenia, while climate objectives need to be reflected in sectoral strategies, in addition to the energy concept of transport and agricultural policy, spatial strategies and all other documents. We estimate that if an appropriate framework is given in the Slovenian Development Strategy, coordination of sectoral strategies will be more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor to ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! We recently held a meeting at the Municipality of Ajdovščina on the construction of anti-aircraft protection on the fast road Razdrto-Vipava. As you know, the project has been going on for more than seven years, and on 13 August 2009 this section of the fast road was opened. Before that, I myself had warned that there were times when overpayments were being made, that there was a deliberate delay in the calls for proposals and, above all, that conditions should be provided before opening, particularly in the area of security. At that time – clearly as a Member – I warned that anti-terrestrial protection should be ensured. Because now, Mr. Minister, you know that several times a year it is necessary to close the road for different types of cars, especially for trucks that drive there. Of course, there is also a problem here on the economic side. Mr. Secretary, I have a simple question for you. Since we were informed at this meeting in Ajdovščina a week ago that the project is now completed that the documentation is ready, I am interested: Will this anti-meter protection project actually begin to be built with test fields in 2016, according to these months ahead of us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question raised, which actually has a similar content to that of the written question on the same subject that Member Matjaž Germany has asked me recently. This way I will serve you with the same information as in this reply. The project of this activity with this anti-earth protection in this section, as is already well known, is run by Dars. This section provides for a little less than 18 kilometres of anti-aircraft protection. In the past, the designer suggested that, due to specific circumstances, test fields should first be carried out to verify whether the effectiveness of these measures is appropriate or not, even though certain simulations have already been carried out on the models themselves. Thus, three test fields are envisaged, namely the area of the Viaducta Lozice, where the maximum wind speed is expected to be measured, and a narrow field of 700 metres will be carried out there. The second test field is foreseen at the passage of the fast road from the Mlaka arch to the Podnanos tunnel. There the road takes place in a curve, which is particularly difficult for this protection against the influences of the wind. There is a total fence length of 750 metres. Test field three is located in the area between Log and Zemon. And there's a 300-metre-long field. As you yourself said, the project documentation, both PGD and KZI, has been made, a pre-investment design, which will be reviewed and validated in a short time, and the means to implement these test fields will be provided by Dars from his own resources. This is about €2 million in 2017. In this way, the test fields will be implemented in 2017 and then the continuation in 2017 and subsequent years, which is conditional, this continuation of this investment, including by regulating the appropriate financing possibilities of Dars under the Guarantee Act. And this guarantee law is already in the interdepartmental procedure. Thus, in 2017, the test fields will be implemented and will be financed when? [[…]] However, right now I cannot tell you, but certainly as soon as possible, because the funds will be provided in the annual plan for Dars for 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Minister Gaspersich. Mrs Eva Irgle, please, you have the floor to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very short. Mr Minister, look, all that you said about the project itself, I also learned at this meeting in Ajdovščina, but the important thing is that you will not start testing fields in 2016, as I understand it, but only in 2017. Even for 2017, you can not make precise calculations when the setting up of test fields will begin. I would still ask you if you could answer me: Will this be in the first half of 2017 or in the second half of 2017? It was said first that this will be true in 2016; in short, we are constantly changing these timelines. I think that the people who live on that end and drive or drive to Ljubljana every day, I think we need such answers as soon as possible and as clearly as possible. While we have asked a number of questions, my fellow Members who come from this end certainly have. But look, I think seven years is a really long time to be kidding around like this. Please answer me: Will it be at least in the first half of 2017 or will it only be in the second? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u141	Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I really agree that this has been going on for a very long time, that we have also had the assurance that Dars will make this happen in 2016, but unfortunately the conditions have not been met, so that the 2017 Annual Plan will ensure this, as it were said, from Dars' own resources, so that the guarantees and all these issues will not have to be conditioned. I will take over, but I can also get details exactly when Dars will start this investment, but I will commit to doing so in the first half of 2017. I don't see why that wouldn't be possible. I don't know if there's going to be a problem with any other calls, but I don't see any other problems. However, matters need to be tested in two winters and one summer season. However, it would make sense that we would already have one summer in the following year, but we will probably not be able to carry out these tests by the end of 2018. That's what these experts now say. However, as it is said, there are some special reasons why this should not be done immediately, I will say in the first half of 2017, I do not see, but I will tell you more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, you'll be informed in writing about the timeline. Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the question of the delegation, namely, the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u144	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings to all present, especially ministers and ministers. Madam Minister, Irena Majcen, I will ask some questions about the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park. As we all know, somewhere in late May or mid-May, a management plan was adopted, which became active because the government had also confirmed it. The management plan, as we know, is a programme act which also sets out development guidelines and means of implementing both the protection, use and management of the protected area and thus becomes a key document of this protected area. We all know that the Triglav National Park, or the Triglav National Park Act, was adopted in the National Assembly with a large majority, and it is all the more important that the continued implementation of this Law has some realisation in the right direction. I therefore ask the Minister concerning the implementation of this management plan, for the first time: How are the TNP commitments on development measures provided for in this management plan? Second: How do you view or accept that the management of the Triglav National Park as the only park in Slovenia has been implementing the director's duties for many years? I think there's been a five-time appointment in these last 3, 4 years, where it's called a doer of duty, not a director. First of all, I want to know: How will you ensure proper understanding and implementation of the Guidelines for the Rehabilitation of Degradable Areas in this Regulation? Because there are some very slippery indications in this dictatorship, and given that we know how individual things are being implemented later in practice, I would like to hear from you how these guidelines will be implemented, because this chapter also states that the following measures are being implemented: the removal of resources, burdens or negative impacts resulting from human intervention. This applies most often to certain infrastructure matters, to tourist facilities, not least camps and the like, and if a naturalist reads these dictions too strictly, I am afraid we will have a lot of problems in practice. That's why I want to know: What are your answers to these three specific questions?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, please, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u146	Mr Daniel Krivec, honourable Member, thank you for the question. The implementation of the management plan shall be carried out by the Public Institute of Triglav National Park in cooperation with the ministries and institutions specified in detail in the management plan. The content of the management plan shall be included in the annual work programmes of the public institution. Following the implementation of the management plan, the Ministry of Environment and Space immediately approached the coordination of the ministries of security in the management plan of the agreed tasks. In addition, it is ensured that the content is included in various country documents such as: the rural development programme 2016-2020, where local action groups in the park area received 15% more money to carry out operations in the Triglav National Park area in conjunction with the management plan. The operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 also took into account the specific situation of the Triglav National Park in the criteria for the selection of operations. The management plan also supported the possibility of an integrated approach to development projects outside of integrated territorial investment for urban areas. The area of park municipalities was recognised by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for cohesion as a meaningful area for the implementation of integrated approaches, and this justification is precisely in the management plan. But it is true that the management of the Triglav National Park has been in the hands of the doer of duty for a long time. It is also true that a rehabilitation programme is being implemented in Triglav National Park, and this implementation of the rehabilitation programme is the basis for making operations easier in the next period of the Triglav National Park. Therefore, all of us, not only our ministry, including other ministries, watch over the implementation of this recovery programme and, after the renewed call to take place by the end of this year, want to bring more stability into business and no longer appoint the perpetrator of the duty. The Triglav National Park Act is the one which provides for a management plan to define the baselines, orientations and measures for environmental and environmental remediation of devalued areas. The definition of demarcated areas is based on an analysis of the existing situation where individual parts of the national park were identified as demarcated areas. In the Triglav National Park, this issue has been present for a long time and we are talking about the devalued ones arising from natural phenomena or processes that pose a threat to the movement of infrastructure or security. We all know about reptiles, snowfalls, earthquake damage — this process of recovery is actually still under way. We also know about invasive species. On the other hand, it is the damage caused by human intervention or activities, such as illegal sand diggers, wild waste dumps, recreation, inadequate settlement expansion, inadequate agricultural or forestry use. This issue is intended to be addressed primarily through the procedures of the guidelines and opinions on spatial plans and use plans and opinions on interventions to space. This is already an established practice and we have identified areas where attention is particularly important and necessary with a management plan. We will also address the issue of inadequate population expansion, placement of activities and the like by strengthening quality spatial planning. In the first place, it is intended to prevent the emergence of new problems in the space and the remediation of existing devalued areas in the space, and for each existing devalued area we propose that they also be rectified in the control procedures in the space with appropriate decisions to remedy the situation. More possible from here on out.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u147	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you, again, for your word. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the first part of the answer. I think that, to some extent, it was quite correct when she said that she also disagreed with the appointment of science, but it is important to know that the last Council of the Institute of Triglav National Park did not support it with a single vote, but she knows what is worrying if we are talking about a key body or a person who is supposed to guide the operation of the park as director. From this title, clearly, all other activities in the park are difficult to complete, and there is no vision. All the things you've been saying about putting into space, opinions, spatial plans and the like, I understand that. I asked you very specifically about this dictatorship, which is in the management plan and which speaks of "directions for the rehabilitation of devalued areas". In a way, it has some general orientations, and later it also talks about specific things about camps in Trenta, as well as the Bohinj region. I am particularly interested in this trentar part where spatial plans are already adopted and there will probably be some contradiction in practice if someone implements the measures provided for in this management plan because it speaks of inadequate accommodation, inadequate regulation, excessive employment. These are very stretching concepts. A certain official can quickly put these under some difficulty for a particular user. That's why I'm really curious: Whether these dictions will be carried out as specified in the Regulation, or whether you will in this case order a specific person — which is probably the director or whoever is involved in the implementation of the management plan itself — to react in certain cases to a healthy farmer’s mind, not after what is written down and officially very strange [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u149	Minister Irena Majcen, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you. It is true that the scope of the Triglav National Park is enough to interfere with the territory of several congregations, that is, more congregations, and that the practice in the congregations is different. Some mayors see this as an advantage, not an obstacle, by the very operation of the congregation within Triglav Park. But we have mayors who don't see these advantages. Of course, the management plan is being developed for the entire area and is therefore so general. It is true, however, that, on the basis of experience so far, new ones will be drawn up, I would say, more detailed guidance to be put in place in the preparation of expert backgrounds for the issuance of natural and cultural protection guidelines in the preparation of spatial acts or plans for the use of natural resources. This means that those municipalities which already have spatial acts adopted will not, of course, re-implement this procedure. It is those congregations that do not yet have accepted spatial acts, and these congregations are getting smaller and smaller. The operator’s expert opinions through an assessment of acceptability under the procedures for issuing environmental and cultural protection conditions and agreeing to intervene in the premises. It also takes place in the preparation of expert opinions by the operator and in the assessment of acceptability in the procedures for the authorisation of intervention in nature and in the determination of mitigating measures in environmental impact assessments. Among other things, at the Ministry this year we have prepared a response report for the investment in Pokluka, where the Law on Triglav National Park itself will have to be amended in order to make the accumulation of capture, the water retainer, legalised. This means that it is precisely this content of the Triglav National Park at the Ministry that we are paying attention in order to enable further strengthening or further development of these acquisitions in the Triglav National Park. It is true, however, that we must devote all our attention, attention, and tasks to ensuring that both nature and natural life — animals, plants in this park, uninterrupted dwellings and living in this environment — are with us, that is, with man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you, too. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor for a professional proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you, again, for your word. As I said, the Law on the Triglav National Park was passed in this National Assembly with a large majority and a consensus mainly because a lot of developmental extensions were incorporated into this new law in the law itself. However, given that this management plan does not show this, it does not appear in the budget itself of this public institution that restrictive and protective tasks are being carried out, and I propose that this subject and the Minister's response be discussed. I am afraid that the Minister has not read this management plan in detail. Given that I come from this area and that I have been alerted to some things, I would like to point out this before problems arise in the implementation itself and some of them, I would say, not in the space itself, due to the misapplication of certain requirements. For this has happened in the past because of misinterpretation or because of the stubbornness of someone who persisted in his right, civil initiatives have taken place several times, which in the end also required exclusion from the park and similar things. In order to avoid such problems, it is appropriate to inform the previous body which adopted this law of certain matters. I therefore propose that the Minister's response be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u153	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September, in the framework of the votes. Magistrate Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Members, Members and others present! According to the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, the number of people waiting for a review or operation has increased by 31 per cent over the last three years. This would not be so bad if almost 40,000 patients did not wait too long for surgery or examination, as this endangers their lives and health and adds to the suffering of patients. Such treatment of patients is inhumane. In the wake of the isolated tragedy, the suffering of urological patients has been particularly exposed in the public. The unsustainable situation in waiting types and urology is explained by a lack of urologists and a lack of financial resources, which sometimes also fosters unsustainable living conditions in the hospital. I am convinced that the country should take priority over its sickest and most vulnerable populations. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: How and when do you plan to resolve the unsustainable staffing and financial situation at least in the field of urology? And second question; the lack of money in health care tries to solve the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance by saving in health care at the most vulnerable groups of the population, this time in contraception to the detriment of women's health and reproductive health. Of course, this is also about agreement with the Ministry. As a result of the protests, the Management Committee of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia postponed the adoption of a contested decision on the establishment of a therapeutic group of hormonal contraceptives, which would result in the introduction of contraceptive supplements. At the same time, he adopted such schemes for racial hormones, which are mostly given to children. Unfortunately, the institution has not given up a repeat attempt to reach a decision on hormonal contraceptives, although this measure would have affected the most socially disadvantaged population and would have prevented women from exercising the constitutional right to freely decide on their birth. At the same time, I invited you to make sure that the rights of residents of compulsory health insurance are decided only in the framework of democratic procedures in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. So I'm wondering: Will you regulate the decision-making area of compulsory insurance rights in the future in accordance with democratic standards for the adoption of legal changes in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the question, Madam Members of the Biszak. First answer for the field of urology; according to the data of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, 48 specialists in urology are in Slovenia, which is 0.032 specialists per 100,000 inhabitants. There are also 28 urology specialists who will complete this specialisation in 2016 until 2025. Let me remind you that the number of specializations in Slovenia is described by the Slovenian Medical Chamber, with the consent of the Ministry of Health, of course. On average, there are 0.061 urology specialists per 100,000 population in the European Union according to Eurostat data for 2013. Therefore, if we want to reach the European average by 2035, we should have at least six or seven specialisations each year in the next 14 years, assuming that the retirement trend remains the same as now envisaged by 2021. In 2015, ten specialisations were awarded in order to increase the number of urology specialists. During this year, 4 additional urology specialisations for the Koper region, Kranj, Ljubljana and Ravne region in Koroškem were announced in the first public invitation to specialise doctors for individual specialist areas for the purpose of public health care. In this respect, I stress that the number of urology specialists, according to data from the Slovenian Medical Chamber last year and this year, exceeded the number of reported needs for new urology specialisations by healthcare professionals, which of course has not been the case in recent years. Thus, in 2009, there were only three specializations, in 2011 only three specializations, 2013 even one and, say, 2014 before my arrival there were only three. We will therefore call for specialisations in urology in this year's year, which is expected to be published in November of this year, in addition to those already in existence. It will also be issued by the Regulation on the upper limit of the number of job offers in the Republic of Slovenia or, if you want, at home, this is a measure allowing the importation of specialist doctors from third countries by special procedure. It will be decided to provide smooth treatment for people and shorten waiting periods. Such a measure, as you know, has already been adopted by Minister Marusic during his term of office. Let me also say that in the resolution on the national health plan until 2025, we have written down that we will ensure an appropriate way of planning healthcare resources, which will take into account, in addition to all measures, the demographic trends of our population. We are therefore preparing appropriate legal bases in order to be able to establish a system for monitoring staff needs and a national register of health workers. We will also enable human resources planning by adopting a national plan for the development and management of healthcare resources. I believe that with the measures and planning envisaged, we will allow equal access for patients to physicians of individual professions, including urology. It is precisely because of these measures that we will also appoint the RSK as the urology that has not yet been established. This is also the proposal of the Association of Urologists with the agreement of all relevant professional and other educational institutions. The second part of the answer to the second question is below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u157	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar wants a word to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you so much for that part of the answer. But it must be found that without the money and without the staff, it will not work. Even in such an extremely slow way of dealing with long-term waiting periods, these people cannot wait, because their lives are at last a matter of human rights. Here I expect that you and the President of the Government will take care at least as soon as possible of the elimination of unacceptable long waiting periods, because there is currently no solution to this problem in the budget of both the State and the Health Insurance Office. I also believe that the Medical Chamber does not leave such a serious problem behind because it is finally a responsibility, for the people. And this is where the country has to tell its own story. On the other hand, I would also like to remind you that some established lawyers point out that it is constitutionally disputed that the most important part of the arrangement of an individual in the public health system is laid down in autonomous acts adopted by the authorities of the institution of compulsory health insurance, namely the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. This is justified by the fact that the rights to social security and health care are constitutional human rights and also include the right to health services. Under Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, however, the way in which constitutional human rights are exercised can only be determined by law. Since it is a matter of exercising human rights, the institution should not determine these rights on its own. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will regulate the currently inadequate procedures for changing health rights, which are also unacceptable in the field of human rights. Thank you very much for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u159	Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thanks again for saying that. Let me just add to the first part. As you know, the government has actually spent 16 million already this year to shorten waiting periods; 8 and 8 for additional these specialist reviews for those too long-awaiting. On his last visit to the UKC, the head of urology assured me that by the end of the year all the years would definitely be over, but he also said that there were quite a few people on those waiting lists when he compared them that they had already intervened in other hospitals, but unfortunately they did not say that they no longer needed an intervention. This is also a picture of our waiting list management system. In fact, this problem will be resolved no later than the new year and, of course, from a systemic and additional financial point of view, we are also negotiating for next year to include the reduction of waiting periods. And the answer to the second part of the question. Yes, I very much agree that the rights of people cannot be determined in some sub-law of the health treasury. As you know, for many years there has been a decision in this Slovenia by the Constitutional Court, which tells and imposes on the Ministry. Unfortunately, I would say that my predecessors have failed, but of course they will find an appropriate response in the new proposal of the Health and Insurance Act, because the actual rights of health care for people must be laid down in the law and we will also follow up on this, as we have written down in the resolution and in the national development programme. And maybe just one more word about this right of women to free contraception and the maintenance of high standards in the field of reproductive health care for women we have in Slovenia. Me and myself, I fully support him. This high standard ensures unhindered access to contraceptives, which, of course, must be appropriate and appropriate in relation to the health status of each individual woman and must be professionally justified and not so much so that various commercials and capital activities that they produce would say that these different new medicines, which may not be appropriate for a given population from a professional point of view. Yes, of course I am in favour of this and in my mandate these rights will definitely not be reduced, but I think they are very important for the nation as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, my question is essentially about the statement made by SMC Group leader Simone Kustec Lipicer on the Tarč show, who asked the journalist about the migration of young people abroad that journalists are under-emphasizing how many young people came to Slovenia and found employment here and found a chance for life. This is a literal quote, and on the question of the journalist where these young people come from, she said, "From different places. Most of them come from Austria, Germany, Croatia. These are the statistics you get from the Bureau of Statistics. A similar percentage, which left Slovenia, also came to Slovenia." In view of this statement and then the various responses, I went to look at the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia myself, but I think you know this information best and I would ask you for the following answer to the question: How many young people have moved from Slovenia in recent years? How many young people have found an opportunity in Slovenia, has it been working here for a certain or indefinite period of time from Austria, Germany, Croatia? From which foreign countries are the most young people employed in the Republic of Slovenia, from which countries have found their opportunity here, i.e. employment? And this relationship between the migration of young people and the migration of young people to Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Jelka Godec, for the question. Otherwise, I apologize for not being precise enough, but we can give you later because you wrote in the outline that you want, how many foreign citizens have been employed in Slovenia for a certain and indefinite period in 2014-2016 and from which countries. I didn't know you were really interested in young people because there are probably differences in the inside. That's how I can tell you about the whole, not the young. If we look at the issue of work permits, in 2014, according to data from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia, 7 000 539 third-country nationals were employed, in 2015 8 000 72 and in the first eight months of this year 5 000 983. The data show that in the Republic of Slovenia, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia and Kosovo are most employed. Other countries include the People’s Republic of China, Russia and Ukraine, while also citizens of the Republic of Croatia. With regard to the employment of EU citizens, according to data from the Institute of Health Insurance, these are M1 forms, we can find that 6 000 729 citizens of the European Union were employed in 2014 in the Republic of Slovenia, 7 000 289 in 2015 and 5 000 374 in 2016. The data show that in the Republic of Slovenia the citizens of Bulgaria, Italy, Hungary and Romania are most employed. In the last year in this segment we note the decline in employment by Slovakia. In most cases, what was the question for a certain period of time – usually employers in the Republic of Slovenia work for a certain period of time, usually for a period of one year. But in the meantime, I got a part of the answer, because we answered the question of Ljub Žnidar regarding the number of unemployed and the number of evictions, here may be information that is interesting. The Employment Office only monitors the checks out of unemployment records for moving abroad, so I can give you this information. Therefore, the following are: 2013 checked out of the register for reasons of employment abroad 628 persons, 2014 751 persons, 2015 655 persons and 2016-May 259 persons. Otherwise, the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for more detailed data on evictions with regard to the central register of origin, where these things are most seen. We only see what is in terms of these official records of the Employment Office. That's the answer on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u165	Mrs. Jelka Godec, you have the floor to request a complete reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u166	It may not be a complement, but I would suggest to the Minister that my colleagues, or not colleagues, but Members of the SMC, but especially the leader of the SMC Group, are familiar with this data and that the ruling coalition does not deceive people with such answers as that most people or young people are coming from Germany, Austria and so on. As you have just said, the largest migration is, of course, not just about young people, but about all citizens from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and 32% of these immigrants, if we look at the level of European statistics. Only 0.6% of Germany, 0.3% of Austria, even declines in immigration. So, you yourself said, by these numbers, if we look at them from 2014 to the first half of this year, immigration to Slovenia and employment in Slovenia from foreign countries is decreasing. I would really suggest that you get to know this at the government or at the top of the coalition and that the SMC stops misleading, that young people migrate to Slovenia, that they find their opportunity here, when statistics, the Statistical Office and the Minister themselves tell us that this is not true and that in fact there is a 3-fold increase in the migration of our citizens abroad rather than immigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u168	I don't want to now because I haven't heard the exact statement so I might point out that there's a number there about 7,000 that we have an inflow. [[…]] Whether they're young or not, we don't know at this point. They are citizens of third countries, where we have a constant influx and then we have citizens of the European Union. With regard to the relocation itself, however, I have only mentioned the data that are by logging out the records, and at this point I do not have all of the movements, so it would be difficult to comment on how many of them have moved away and how many have moved. It wouldn't look that way. It is only difficult to comment on what happened, but these are the latest data prepared by the Slovenian Employment Institute.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr Matthew Tashner Vatovec will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Karl Erjavac. The Minister is absent, as you know, and I ask you to define yourself to the way you respond. And, of course, to the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. Mr. Secretary! As a brief introduction, the part of the occupation that Israel carried out after 1967 over the Palestinian area, namely the Golan Planets, Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem, is also linked to the economic exploitation of these areas. Israel is exploiting these areas mainly for agricultural but also economic purposes and, of course, is further hampering the development of the Palestinian State. In accordance with international law, the European Union does not recognise Israel's sovereignty over these territories and on 11 November 2015 the European Commission also issued new guidelines for the labelling of products from these illegal Israeli settlements on the West Bank. As products coming from these illegal settlements are also being sold or sold in Slovenia under the mark of the Israeli curse, this is not mainly an avocado, the Jaffa brand agrume and SodaStream soda products, but also cosmetics and fish products, I am interested in the fact that the European Commission has issued these guidelines: How does the Slovenian Government intend to implement this labelling of products? More specifically: Is any time frame ready for this marking to enter into force? Is it clear which office will be responsible for the verification of origin and how this will be verified? Next: What will be the consequences if the labeling company fails to comply? And last: How will public awareness of the meaning of the marks be raised?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u171	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u172	Thank you, Chairman. Messengers and Members! Mr Member, thank you for the question. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we are aware of the issue of labelling products that Israel markets as Israeli, although they originate from occupied Palestinian territories. According to our information, it's mostly fruit and vegetables and some cosmetics. Imports take place mainly on waterways, the key is Luka Koper. Such labelling is a matter of misleading consumers, which is prohibited by the Consumer Protection Act against unfair business practices. While that law lays down general criteria for misleading basic practices related to the provision of information to consumers on products and services on the market, the topic of labelling of agricultural products is regulated by the Agricultural Act. This law is so-called lex specialis under the Consumer Protection Act against Unfair Business Practices. In addition to the offence, the Law on Agriculture provides for administrative action. In order to exercise control over the labelling of agricultural products, it is the responsibility of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for safe food, veterinary care and plant protection, but in the case of cosmetic products, the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for the exercise of supervision. This is the part concerning our ministry, but I cannot answer the part concerning the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, do you request a supplement to your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you. Especially as far as that's concerned. Minister, you have given me what law this governs, which services are actually responsible for who checks origin and such things, and I am interested in when they will actually implement, so when will these products be clearly marked on the shelves in stores in accordance with those guidelines that the European Commission gave last November. I think that Slovenia is somehow committed to implementing these guidelines, so in some ways I am repeating all these issues, which concern your ministry as well. So: When will the guidelines of the European Commission begin to be followed? Who is responsible for this, you have basically responded directly to me and remains open: How will the public be informed of the meaning of the codes for products originating from illegal settlements?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u176	Look, honourable Member, I have answered you who is responsible for this issue in the case of food and cosmetics. This is not a market inspection by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and I can no longer tell you when, how much and why. For inspection of the implementation of the Consumer Protection Act against unfair business practices, the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and other inspection bodies are competent in accordance with their competences; we do not escape this, but we simply do not have these powers for food and cosmetic matters. Where a market inspectorate or other competent inspection authorities find that an undertaking is using unfair business practice or is just before using it, they shall prohibit the use of such practice by a decision if they decide that it could cause injury to consumers, irrespective of the form of the company's fault. As has already been said, inspection of the labelling of agricultural products is not carried out by the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which is our inspection body or body in the composition of MGRT, but by the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection, which is the body of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dr. Vatovec, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u178	In a way, I am talking about two things; one is who is responsible for some general exercise of control over what is occurring on the market in Slovenia, whether it is food or cosmetics, and the other is a policy that the Government must adopt on a specific issue. I think we're in kind of a split right now. I understand that different administrations and inspectorates are responsible for certain inspections, but I am particularly interested here in how the Government will agree on the implementation of these guidelines by the European Commission, and I think this is a relatively important question to which the answers are needed. We have not received this today, so I propose that a general debate be held on this at the next meeting. I would also like to request an oral reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September, in the framework of the votes. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, everyone present in the hall is welcome! Slovenia is very unevenly developed and very similar could be said for agriculture. As a Member, I am quite on the ground, and I regret to say that I still hear too often that agriculture has been underdeveloped in less developed areas. That's why I'm interested in: When and what measures do you plan to take to develop agriculture in less developed areas? The second part of the question relates to one of such problem areas, the Haloz area, which you know well. Last but not least, we have discussed this subject twice in the National Assembly, as well as what oral question has already been raised on this subject. Now let me remind you that in April 2015 all parliamentary parties have somehow committed or committed themselves to you, the Government, to prepare comprehensive measures for the integrated development of the Haloz area. Of course, following the establishment of a government working group, one document is being prepared, a set of measures to be implemented. But, of course, the Haloses are mostly agricultural, and I'll say that as much of this work falls to you, your esteemed minister. I am interested in concreteness; on many occasions, it is also said from your side, Minister, that it was made for Haloze and that good results have already been seen. I want to know: What are these results specifically? Last but not least, I am quite moving around the Haloz area, but unfortunately these positive effects are not heard by the mountaineers, particularly these smaller farms. Finally, they continue to point out that calls made or prepared are made in such a way that they cannot easily approach them. That's why I'm specifically interested in: How much improvement has the situation in agriculture in Haloza improved and what are you planning to do in this area in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u182	Dear Member, Members, Members of Parliament and Mr President, once again a nice greeting. Thank you, Madam Member, also for the current question. As you said correctly, there was a special working group. In this working group were mainly representatives of various NGOs from the Haloz area, and then also from the State Office, and this group was led by our State Secretary, Mrs Tanja Strniš. And you asked me at the right time, because in fact some of the results are already visible, and some of the activities you asked about will be carried out because they are linked to some structural changes, where time is a little longer. If you'll excuse me, I'm just going to give you a letter of honor. There have been a lot of questions about whether environmental measures being implemented can be changed by making it easier for people to enter this area, particularly in the Haloz area. Although I would like to point out when the Haloze programme was being implemented, it was a programme for all demographically endangered areas and is considered a significantly larger area, such as Haloze alone. But I'm going to talk about the results for Haloze because we've got a collection. Thus, in 2016, 34.5% more farms were involved in environmental measures, and in practice it means that an additional 74% more money has come, which in practice means a quarter of a million euros a year. The value of measures per farm has also increased. If a thousand 831 were paid to the average farm in 2014 – I am talking only at this time about environmental measures – this amount in 2015 was 2 000 876 and the payment will be, I wish that most of us would be able to pay this year and will be higher again this year, that is, 2016, for about EUR 1 000 722. Another very important for Haloze is wine growing and at this point you see, we have a new cooperative, and what is important at this moment is included in the wine growing measure 43 farms at a total of 331 hectares. Perhaps what is most important if the average environmental payment in 2014 for the average farm was 2 000 700, in 2015 2 000 528 and is foreseen in 2016 6 000 635. Then there was a lot of talk about whether or not we would find any measure that would allow more habitat measures to be implemented in the Haloz area. This measure had only one representative in 2014. In 2016 we already have 20 agricultural holdings involved. This means an additional €15 000 for Haloses annually. The new measure, which has been implemented since this year, will also be paid next year, is an animal welfare measure. This measure, however, includes 141 farms in the Haloz area and amounts to an additional EUR 75 000 for Haloze annually. As regards the rural development programme and investment measures. There's been a change here, too. The first amendment is that, in order to change points and to take account of both the tendency and the reduction in the number of people in a given place, it has also been possible to include the last Halloz municipality in this measure. Areas limited to Haloze have received additional points in investment measures and an additional 10% co-financing if selected. However, I would also like to say: the measure we will start in 2017 and also require a change in the rural development programme is an additional payment on the slopes. The measure is as written on the hand of Halozam. In practice, this means that the farm, which has a 35% or more slope, receives an additional EUR 50 per hectare at all other payments, a farm with 50 per cent or more slopes, EUR 100 per hectare. What is also important: in 2017 we are preparing and I believe that we will also be able to implement a special investment measure, perhaps, Madam Member, because I expect you to ask me something else, I will explain it below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. First of all, when we adopted this decision in the National Assembly, it was intended to prepare measures that would apply exclusively to the Haloz area. Now in the field of agriculture, as you said, you have prepared measures for the whole of Slovenia. I don't know, but I would have wanted to, and somehow expected that we would have measures that would have been intended exclusively for Halozam. I agree with you that, for example, given the steepness, Haloze is probably one of those rare areas that fall under these criteria or whatever. It would be good if we could devote more to Haloza. What seems to me to be the issue, and what do these small farmers in the area themselves point out? Now you are preparing applications for investments up to €15 000, and here is also a speech about individual, I will say, a criterion – the amount of annual income. It is a pity that farmers working on these small farms cannot survive. Most of these people are still employed and are more than likely to be bound by their love for the area than simply making it possible for them to survive. Perhaps you should consider and prepare real - life measures that will then be written on people’s skin and that they will be able to make use of it, perhaps even in the future they can survive only by cultivating this land. Last but not least, the second is the size of these farms. We know that farms here are much smaller than anywhere else. But if we want the landscape to remain beautiful, processed, that agriculture is preserved, that we know that these are unique areas for winemaking, of course, it is right that we might go a little closer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dejan Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you for the opportunity to say something else. I appreciate Haloza very much, but I must say that there are some other similarly threatened areas in Slovenia and the agricultural ministry itself, because we help through the development of the rural programme, because through other measures it is much harder or almost impossible. We have a unified program for the state. Now large countries, such as Germany, have more programs because they have countries, but in Slovenia, if they had this broken down, let's say a programme for Haloze, for Maribor, for Pomurje, they wouldn't even be able to pull out because it's already two million relatively small populations for one rural development programme. Now there's something else I want to say. The basics of agricultural policy, we must all understand this, the most money is distributed over payments per hectare. The payment per hectare does not depend on whether the farm is small, medium or large, but is a payment per hectare. Perhaps one day it will be different in the future, and now only 15 percent of payments via the blue envelope are allowed to pass. We then do this separately, for example, cattle or other sectors, but 85 percent is a simple payment per hectare, and everywhere it is. And that will change in 2021, when payments per hectare of fields, grass, vineyards, orchards will be completely equal. At this point, we are just one of two countries where it is different. Perhaps there is something else that will interest you, Members of Parliament and Members as well as perhaps viewers and viewers. Although we currently have 58 000 agricultural holdings in Slovenia, we just need to understand that we have two different groups of producers within this framework, which also work differently. The first group is farms that live only from agriculture. These are the farms that actually live in Slovenia that we define most simply in such a way that they are farms where at least one farmer or farmer is insured from agriculture. [[…]] And then we have farms, which are essentially more, where agriculture is basically just some kind of extra activity on the farm. People are busy, but they continue to cultivate their history or their parents out of love for their land. We generally do not separate between these farms; payments per hectare are the same for all. But we have also observed, those who have a farm as an additional activity, that it is more difficult to get development money because they are not so specialised. That is why we have decided that in the following year, I believe that we will now get this confirmation, we will go to a special investment call where such a farm will be able to run exclusively. The money will be limited, I think it'll be about 20 million. This, I think, has never been in the history of Slovenia. So, one package on which the other farms will not be able to do so will be intended only for these farms. I believe he'll be successful, too. But the next one would have run out of time. [[…]] Again, thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mrs Vojka Šergan will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, at the time of the preparation of the budget for 2016 and 2017, 23 million euro and about one million more for 2017 were allocated to the protection centres. The 2016 budget thus provided for enlargements in public institutions, protective work centres or an increase of 100 users, representing approximately 22 % in relation to the waiting list one year ago. In connection with the above, I would like to raise two questions. I want to know: How many current applications are on the waiting list for inclusion in the protection work centres, including an assessment of the number of those enrolled in schools with an adjusted programme aged over 26 years and those at home? Second question: Which work centres are already expanding or can be expected by the end of the year and by how many cities? In this context, I would also point out the region from which I come – I come from Zasavje. I am interested in the Zagorje Protective Work Centre near Sava, which also accepts users from Lithuania. This accessibility would, at least temporarily, be resolved by the opening of the Zagorje work centre in Sava, Lithuania. This unit could, for example, have its premises in the Lithium Social Protection Centre, which has an empty space for the purpose of a protective work centre. This would bring the user from Lithuania closer to the services and at the same time solve the spatial hardship of the Zagora Safety Work Centre. That's why I'm also interested in: What do you think of such an alternative solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Dr. Anya Kopač Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u190	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members, Minister and Minister! Dear Private Shergan, thank you for asking. The security and employment management services are carried out under specific conditions in 34 protective work centres, of which 23 are public and 11 are concessionaires. Currently, 3 000 426 adults with disabilities in physical and mental development are included in the service, of which 2 000 891 are in public institutions and 535 users in concessionaires. The Ministry is aware of the needs, especially during the crisis, we can say that there was a period from 2008 to 2014, when in fact there was no enlargement due to all restrictions. Thus, it was one of the first conditions for us to record enlargements in the coalition contract in the protective work centres. I am pleased that we have implemented 70 new inclusions in 2015 according to budgetary capacity and an additional 257 inclusion this year, which means that over the last two years 327 new jobs have been provided for users and thus 100 new jobs have been made possible. The service is fully financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so from the point of view of rational budget spending, we wanted to first fill in all available spatial capacities available to public institutions. The enlargements were carried out in almost all public institutions in accordance with spatial possibilities. According to data on the number of applications on the waiting list received from all the operators at the end of last year, the waiting list was at least halved with these extensions; of the 600 applications recorded to around 300 applications, it has to be said that the new inclusions were coordinated with the establishments in 2015 and 2016, so that the inclusion was mostly possible for all those who urgently needed them. Experience shows that, in large cases, persons who have expressed interest in inclusion do not, for a variety of reasons, choose to do so. As already mentioned with the implementation of enlargements, we have mostly been able to fill the free space capacity in public institutions. All further urban enlargements will be addressed in the context of a re-analysis of needs and integrated planning for the development of a network of protective work centres at the level of the whole of Slovenia in the period up to 2020. The VDC Zagorje near Sava, which you highlighted, was also on 13. 9. 2016 re-implementation of the technical view of the premises and assessment of compliance with the requirements of the Regulation on minimum technical requirements for social security service providers. In order to determine the fulfilment of the minimum technical requirements for social security service providers, the Commission concluded that the establishment still has free spatial capacity for at least 30 additional seats, since in the last year the facilities were newly installed at the premises. While the needs of users for new integration of protection and employment services are demonstrated in the wider area of Lithuania under specific conditions, the current opening of the unit is not economically justified in the view of the Ministry’s professional services. At the same time, I would point out that it is there, as you mentioned, in these premises owned by a municipal company, already a home of pensioners, but there is a problem with the bankruptcy of this company. You must be aware that when users of the work centre are protected in such premises, particular attention should be paid to regulating all other relationships. So if I simplify, certainly with enlargements we are satisfied, we have solved the worst problems. However, it is now necessary to analyse the network as comprehensively as possible and to go as close as possible to users, but in a way that we can still justify these spending economically. Well, we'll certainly try to coordinate. This network is also subject to enlargement under the national social protection programme by 2020, but a prior analysis will be needed, as regards Lithuania, and particular attention will be given to this. So this is an expert evaluation of services within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan will request a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u192	In doing so, I would just like to point out that in the future, when this analysis is being done, 23 centres, which are public institutions, would really need to be considered because, for example, these users are locally closer to the centre; that is to say, these VDCs that are I think all users want to get as close to such a centre as possible. [[…]] For example, from Zasavje to drive to Slovenj Gradec such a user, it is also difficult because if he is close to home, then he can stay at home every day and drive to this center daily. However, if only public institutions are exposed in Slovenia, those who also have tradition, this is a problem for these users. Therefore, these services should be brought closer to the users – I would like to point out this here. I would like to see that in this analysis in the future and also to consider alternative solutions that would be more appropriate for the region and the users. [[…]] In short, I would have warned you about that. But I take to heart the problem of Lithuania and then it is really being resolved even when there are suitable premises in Lithuania and we continue to talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u194	Your Honor, I certainly agree with you. It is always necessary to plan the public network in a way that makes us as close to users as possible. However, we must also be aware of the unfortunately certain limitations that they are and it is necessary to provide money to as many users as possible in order to be able to participate in the services they urgently need. The expansion of the network must be in the sense that the dislocated units of existing public institutions are being set up to cover further those grey foxes that may be located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, our territory, and, on the other hand, the project with European deinstitutionalisation resources, where protection work centres and users in this area are also involved, through community treatment, the expansion of community programmes and here also within the European means where calls are prepared, so that this will also be necessary – and thus, of course, new concepts of work and, in particular, assistance at home closer to users. So I agree with your suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek will ask the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mrs Irena Majcen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall, Minister! In the Upper Savinja Valley last February, we established a civil initiative, which, together with the mayors of all upper-Assavian municipalities, wishes to draw the Ministry's attention somehow to the problems of the flood threat, particularly the Upper Savinja River. During the month of October last year, we also presented to you representatives of the Civil Initiative at the Ministry of Ljubljana and also presented an assessment of the damage caused by Savinja since 2007, of course on buildings, public infrastructure and agricultural land. This damage is very high, and we estimate that it is around EUR 25 million. In December 2015, a consultation at Ljubno ob Savinja on this topic was also held on the Plan to Reduce Flood Hazards for the period 2015-2021, and cooperation was also promised in the preparation of this plan. In this meantime, correspondence has been held between the President of the Civil Initiative and the Ministry to date, but I must say that the Ministry may be making the correspondence worse. In view of the above, I am interested in: At what stage is the production of a hydrological-hydraulic study now? I want to know: So when will the results of this study be known? When can we expect a plan to reduce flood risks to be completed? And also: Can we count on the fact that we will also be familiar with this study in the Upper Savina Valley – says our civil initiative? Will it be possible to comment on this study? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u198	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, thank you for the question. It is true that we have been in contact on this subject several times before, and so is the case. It is true, however, that, during this time, there have also been promises on my part, commitments that hydrological-hydraulic study will actually be completed by the time we speak today. It is true, however, that because of the difficulties in producing this study came from the contractor, this is from the university, the application for extension of the deadline for the production of this study and at the Ministry we decided to extend the deadline for them; by the end of this year or January of the following year, because if we are looking for a new study preparer, if we find out somehow that this drafter is not appropriate and we cannot find a suitable contractor by that date. We therefore assessed that it would be better if we gave him our consent to extend the deadline for producing this study and then proceed with the procedures. The flood risk reduction plan itself is being implemented for the whole of Slovenia. I believe that you are not most pleased with the response of our colleagues, but I assure you that they have done much at this time to prepare this plan, that much work is still ahead of them, a plan to reduce the flood threat will also be published before treatment or prior to adoption by the Government, so that the process itself is ongoing. In fact, we are currently concluding a water management plan process at the Ministry, which is even more comprehensive in scope, of course, covering a number of important things that need to be addressed in the management plan. At present, the environmental report has also been adopted so that we are moving to the final phase. At the same time, we also have a plan for dealing with the marine environment, which is also important for Slovenia. Thus, at the end of the year, sometime in December, this plan to reduce flood risk would be published or will go into the reception phase of the government. It is true that this comprehensive hydrological-hydraulic analysis is a condition for the preparation of investments within the Cohesion Policy Operational Programme 2014-2020, that projects are also designed for some of these sites, but this analysis is a condition for us to approach the preparation of projects or applications for funds. That is why this flood security of Savinja, the local measures implemented within the operational programme 2007-2013, is of course more important for the areas of Luč, Celje and Laško. It is true, however, that the adoption of spatial acts must also continue, and this is a matter of state spatial plans, because, otherwise, this investment or some investments will not be possible to make. The Water Directorate continues its activities, it is about regulating the Ljubnica, it is about Savinja, it is also about cleaning the reservoirs, where the work is at a time when precipitation and water from higher parts brings a lot of sales or stones. This means that we are paying attention to the Ministry, that these measures are being implemented properly throughout Slovenia, but it is true that climate change has an impact on the amount of precipitation, on the intensity of precipitation and that total anti-float security will not be able to provide in the future. However, it is essential to improve anti-floating security, which is within the implementation of both cohesion and investment co-financed or financed by the Water Fund, the Ministry's priority over the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you. That's all I'd ask, Your Honor Minister. You say that the plan to reduce flood safety for all of Slovenia is in final work and is expected to reach the government in December. I want to know: Will this plan be presented to us in the Upper Savina Valley just before we receive it? Will it be possible to make any comments or initiatives to this plan before it is adopted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u202	I would like to say that it is likely that, after preparing this plan itself, it will not be possible to make presentations throughout Slovenia. Then, of course, such locations should not only be in the Upper Savinja Valley, but should be repeated throughout Slovenia. However, this plan will be published on the website or on the E-democracy, where any further comments can be made. It is also true that this expert team that prepared this plan has established very good relations with the mayors, and in many areas, after the activities – I am sure that even in the Upper Savina Valley – they are preparing solutions that are then covered by this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. The Minister is absent, so please, if you define yourself to the way the answer is.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u204	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am addressing my question to the Minister of Public Administration, who is absent today, and I would kindly ask if he could give me an oral answer at the next meeting. My question concerns the Public Procurement Act, which was recently adopted. Of course, we often talk about the development of the Republic of Slovenia, our country. They are certainly here in the past — and I believe that in the future too — local communities will play an important role. These are our congregations throughout the country, of course, as a result in these local communities of the local community. The Public Procurement Act has recently been passed, and this law has caused considerable discomfort in these local communities. I have spoken with many mayors of these congregations who call on the Ministry for some interpretations, of course this interpretation is very vague but imprecise, but most of the time it is not received. Some congregations have already embarked on this new law, with many problems, and some are still waiting for it because of lack of transparency. Let me also mention that when we talk about the local community, the development of our country, we often run into the average, which the Government is reducing or does not meet the needs of these local communities. In this segment, however, local communities in these local communities play an extremely important role for all of these 25 years, and I say that they make these local communities from one euro in that place 1.5 or 2 euros. Here I am referring to the voluntary work and contributions that people make to the development of these remote areas in particular. What I'm talking about is much harder in some big cities. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Public Affairs: Is he preparing any amendments to the Public Procurement Act, in particular Article 66, which speaks of public procurement for the purposes of smaller parts, meaning local communities? This law is unclear and inaccurate in this segment and, above all, hinders the development of local communities, as a consequence of the local communities to which it relates. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the ministers and ministers, to the others present! In view of my question, I would also like to know how the Ministry of Education is thinking, but this is about maintaining the branch school in Breginj. So this is the Simon Gregorčič Primary School in Kobarid. We know that we have an infinite number of rules and standards and everything about employment and that. We also know the specifics of branch schools and schools that are located in a rural village, with which the vast majority of the congregations are also visited. However, since I have an office in Sosoč, both the mayor and the head of the branch school have addressed me, and we have somehow come to the point that these standards are quite uneven with schools in some urban environment. In particular, I am interested in: How would it be possible to find opportunities to maintain this rather than just branch school? This could probably apply to others by reminding you and reminding you — perhaps you yourself — that this is one of the few branch schools that never closed its doors, not during the Fascism, not during the war, not during the earthquake, not until now. But it can change in this situation, as it is. I have a commitment by the Mayor of Kobarid to take action and even if it is necessary to help financially keep this school alive. We know for ourselves that the school, even in Breginj, which is such a specific village, is one of the central points on which people attach themselves. I am pleased to tell you that I have made sure that a very young community has lived there with my own eyes; it is said that the young remain, the schools no longer move and that the kindergartens that exist there are one of these foundations on which they build their future. I think it's up to all of us to build on this and find a resolution that is possible. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you very much, honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Article 12 of the Regulation on the conditions for the establishment of public primary schools, public primary schools and institutions for the education and education of children and young people with special needs and public music schools – we say this as a rule on the conditions for establishment – the founder of the school monitors demographic data on the number of compulsory children in the school environment for at least a five-year period and, of course, the Ministry monitors this data closely. If the founder finds that less than five pupils would be involved at the branch located in the specific settlement area — and this is the case — and, of course, also with developmental features in the next five-year period, the procedure for changing the status of the school should be initiated under Article 13 of this Regulation on the conditions for establishment. The very procedure for changing the status of the school begins only by the founder, not by the ministry as such, but by the founder himself, at least 2 years before the start of the school year, in which the school fails to meet that condition; that is, when we say simply, we do not have enough children or during this five-year period. As far as we know and are aware of the students' involvement at the Breginj branch is concerned, it is clear that the very number of students involved does not threaten the existence of the branch. You yourself have indicated that we have a demographic increase to revive this area, which, of course, is a beautiful message for all educational and educational institutions, no matter how they are carried out either in primary or branch schools or in individual schools. We also received a role from the primary school of Simon Gregorčič in early May, and we have already responded in May. The school itself asked for the specifics in question in accordance with what I previously stated, namely the creation of two combined departments at the Breginj branch, which will be visited by ten pupils in the current school year, 2016/2017. By the Ministry of Education, at the end of May, we have already informed the school that they can otherwise form one section of the four classes, which is also in line with the existing rules, Article 27, this is the Regulation on Standards and Standards for the Implementation of the Basic School Programme, but other professionals can also be involved in this work within 10 hours, depending on the educational work and the conditions of this work. This also facilitates the implementation of the programme also in accordance with the envisaged standards and standards. Of course, because the branch itself is in this demographicly threatened area and, given the number of students mentioned above, because of the specific working conditions that this school has, the Ministry has approved for this year additional so-called 5 teaching hours for separate instruction. We are trying to help not only maintain the quality of the education process, but also promote the involvement of the school in the local environment itself and vice versa in order to continue to become this school and remain the connecting element of the centre. You have asked another question, namely, about transport, which can also be a major part, I would say, of the organisation and the challenges of organising a learning process, i.e. the arrival and departure of students. As far as the costs of transporting drivers and escorts are concerned, this is not directly an area within the competence of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Of course, it is the domain of the municipal community, but also under certain conditions of co-financing by the Ministry, when it comes to special needs or when it comes to endangered paths – for example, an example of a endangered route due to the beast. In those cases, however, the Ministry is involved in the resolution and is also obliged to cooperate. However, in this immediate case, not as far as the organisation and operation of the transport are concerned, and of course this is part of the local community and the implementation of these local community processes. However, we are aware that a number of challenges are due to the demographic environment itself and, of course, to the regional dispersion that is the domain of the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! About the Divača-Koper project, about the so-called second track, there were indeed many words that were spilled a lot of ink. This is understandable in some ways because it is the largest state project of exceptional importance in the reconstruction of railway infrastructure, as well as for the other segments, Luka Koper and even freight transport in the Republic of Slovenia. The application for an open invitation to tender was unsuccessful. In some ways, this was known earlier because the project was not prepared at such a stage as to meet all the tendering conditions required. Last year, in February, a call was made for a so-called audit and a reassessment of the verification of the value of the project itself. In fact, I am now interested in the state of these results, when they will be, because we know that from the financial envelope, where there is virtually little money for infrastructure, that we will have to run for future open calls and, of course, we will have to meet all the tendering conditions. That's why I'm asking: At what stage is this project actually known or when will the results of this audit be known?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Peter Gaspersich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member, Mr Ljubo Žnidar! True, the second track has been said a lot, a lot of writing, tomorrow, I am sure we will also spend most of our time talking about this very strategic project. You are asking what stage this project is at, or this task of value revision. The invitation to tender itself was published this January, it is said, at the beginning of this year, that tenders were followed. When we selected the tenderer, there were also complaints followed, but then the State Audit Commission rejected these complaints, so that the Directorate could, at the end of June, exactly 30 June, with the selected contractor, that is, Geodata, an Italian company, conclude a contract for the execution of this contract with the value or price offered, the contract price then EUR 176 000 900 with the value added tax included. The purpose of this audit is to verify all the structure, the estimated values, as is currently assessed in the projects, and all the possibilities for rationalising and optimising this project, in particular in the light of this issue, whether it can be discussed on this track only in order to focus on freight transport, or whether it can then be associated with the abandonment of certain evacuation or so-called service tunnels and also with certain issues relating to further maintenance aspects. As far as the existing track is concerned, we wanted to address it in some way. The deadline for the performance of this task was offered by the contractor for three months. This is how we expect the final result at the end of September, this is the draft final report. This proposal for a final report will then be made by the contracting authority, by the Directorate or for that purpose, by a special expert commission to examine this product, to look at it, to make further comments and then the contractor is obliged to make any corrections. We therefore expect that the results of this evaluation can be presented to the public - and thus this final report - somewhere in the first half of October. This is how this plan is now, and on this basis then all the activities run out, immediately after completeing this financial structure, and these are further questions that I am sure will be discussed in detail tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your information. This is said to be the hope of these results at the end of September or early October. But I'm asking you another question. The envisaged new call for CEF, which is said to be an open call for cohesion countries, is expected to be in October already. Of course, with a certain time, I don't know if it's going to be eight months or one year; it's going to be a shortcut to spending. The expected additional funds for this purpose are around a billion. I want to know: What else is missing from this project in order to actually meet these tendering conditions? Because this deadline for the publication of the invitation to tender, announced by European Commissioner Violet Bulc, should already be in October. This is said to be extremely close to us, and I believe that the basis is also an investment plan, because in fact the investment must be closed. We know this is a difficult bite and a step that cannot be taken from today to tomorrow, but, however, the invitation is at the door. However, the Commissioner also provided information that these cohesion countries do not actually have many projects prepared, which is said to be a much larger option. But I would say that now we, too, are in trouble, because our level of readiness for this project is not yet so far away that at least in this initial part of this call, let's say, we have met all the criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u216	Thank you very much for this additional question. In this autumn, October, November, several calls by the European Commission are expected for various purposes, with different amounts. We will examine very closely the conditions of the value of these tenders and then it will be necessary to assess where the tender is most appropriate to apply for this project, perhaps even on several tenders. In short, we're gonna have to study all these things. As it appears so far, the most appropriate call will be – but, as it is said, this information is not yet very well known, but, according to the first information coming from the Commission, a special call is also being made for projects that will run for so-called CEF grants and for the funds of the so-called Junker or EFSI Fund. In short, the projects envisaged for the so-called "Bleding" on the Commission call it blending, combining European grants and those available in the form of repayable loans through this EFSI mechanism. This call is expected to actually be the one most suitable for our second track. As it is said, it is expected to be published towards the end of the autumn of this year. However, it is anticipated that it will be open for quite some time, perhaps even most of the time next year. If we are to prepare for this call, of course, it will be possible for us to complete this role and complete its maturity, but of course we must also be prepared to apply to any other calls if they prove appropriate. Our goal is to demonstrate this maturity to the fullest extent possible. I think we've made great progress since last year. Indeed, we now have a legal building permit, we have a project company set up to complete this financial structure. There are also activities currently under way to provide a capital injection by the Republic of Slovenia, followed by the share of grants by the European Union, the shares of private investors – as stated here we wish to attract the participation of Slovenian logistics companies, which have the greatest benefit from this project – which is still missing, says the final investment value, through this so-called EFSI mechanism. So, the financial structure is now well crystallized, and I hope that next year we can ensure this and then we can move on to the publication of the construction tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomič will ask the Minister for Agriculture for Forestry and Food, Master Dejan Židan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, how will you feel when your colleague Gašperšič destroys 114 hectares of the best agricultural land, water resources, agricultural facilities – 120 of them according to his plans. But that's the topic for tomorrow, and probably for another day, so let's go back to torturing animals. A month ago, a police officer was bitten by a bitch at the Maribor police station. It's a bitch who's already attacked and bitten people three times before, and once again another dog. Her owner has in the past quite frankly admitted that the dog fight school is a dog fight. At the time of the last attack on a police officer, the bitch wasn't on the leash or had a clue. After the event, her owner, despite asking the police to put a tip on her dog, did not do so or would not hand over her personal documents to the public and just leave the scene. Since the police know the owner, they then handed her a payment order, issued an offence for violating the provisions of the two articles of the Animal Protection Act, which require the keeper of animals to ensure by appropriate training and training or other measures that the animal is not dangerous to the environment and that the keepers of dangerous dogs must provide physical protection by means of a leash and a baiter. Police have also notified the Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection Board of the fifth bite of this dog now. According to the Animal Protection Act, dangerous animals are those who endanger the environment because of their uncontrollability or show offensive behavior toward humans. In addition to those dogs that meet the conditions for dangerous animals, dangerous dogs are also those that have already bitten humans. The dog in question fulfilled all these criteria. If a dangerous dog with a bite causes injury and it is not serious, the dog and the school owner must at the latest by the second year of age. If the dog causes serious injury, it is intended to be installed in the isolation unit until the suspicion of rabies is excluded and then, of course, execution. Despite all these provisions, apparently the owners of dangerous dogs continue to walk freely, without leashes and baits, and they freely attack and bite people and animals. But this woman has trained these dogs for dog fights, in short, to kill. That's why I want to know: Did the dog perform compulsory education in a specific case? How many of these cases are dealt with annually by UVHVR? Do dogs in such cases carry out training after each consecutive bite? How many schools were there in this particular case? Do you think it would not be better for someone who has proven clocking dogs to kill, taking dogs and owning dogs in the future to ban them? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Master Diane Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members, honourable Members of the Parliament in particular, welcome! If I fail to provide all the information in the first part, please allow me to continue. But since you also asked something that wasn't meant to be, let me also answer what was not meant to be. Whether it is the President of the Government, whether it is the Minister or the Minister, or the Members or Members, you are all sworn together to protect the Slovenian agricultural land, which is like drinking water or forest, a factor of natural wealth, which we do not have enough. But words don't say anything. Only concrete actions in both the National Assembly and the Government, in particular, and I hope that when it comes to specific cases, you will be completely able to translate all of the people I have listed into practical decisions on their principle question. As for the specific case, allow me to begin with three points and then explain the case. First of all, the Animal Protection Act clearly lays down the procedure for dangerous dogs, the competent control authorities and their action. Secondly, the procedure for dealing with the Maribor case of a police officer being bitten by a dangerous dog was carried out in accordance with legislation. Thirdly, the Republic of Slovenia has established a system for dealing with dangerous dogs and their education at the national level, which is superstandard in the European Union, where this is largely regulated at the local level. The holder by whom you ask the honourable Member was the owner of four dogs between 2007 and 2016. There's no one left right now. There have been more reports and therefore more controls due to suspicion of being involved in dog fights. In this control, it was supervised by the Food Safety Authority, together with other competent authorities, to collect notifications and data, but its participation in dog fights in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia has never been established. Bitch who's 9. 8. 2016 was bitten by a police officer at the police station, was dealt with before this event by the Food Safety Authority and was bitten by the bite of 31. 8. which I believe you, honourable Member, have also said that you have already had the status of a dangerous dog. The decision on the status of a dangerous dog has become enforceable 9. 12. 2015; 25. 12. And the same bitch bites or hurts a man again. This event was considered a repeat bite by an already dangerous dog. In all cases, the bitch in a public place was free to move, without a clue, and without control. In a specific case, the owner should, by June 2016 at the latest, arrange for the training of a dangerous dog or at least start training. This type of education usually takes place for 3 months. Since the owner did not start training the dangerous dog within the prescribed time limit, the Food Safety Authority is 30. 5. In the event that the owner fails to comply with the decision, the decision setting out the training of the dog or its execution has been served. 9. 8. There was another bite on that bitch when a police officer was bitten at the police station. 12. 8. In cooperation with the police and the shelter, the administration took the dog’s owner away. The dog was 19. 8. also painlessly executed. The legislation authorises the official veterinarian to order the execution at the expense of the custodian, if it is a dangerous animal, or if it is a dangerous dog with which the prescribed training has not been carried out or if this training has not been carried out successfully. On the day of the 16th. 9. 2016, as you asked, honourable Member, according to the Central Registry of Dogs is 2 000 118 dogs with dangerous dog status. Danger dog keepers must ensure that the dogs are physically protected by means of a leash and equipped with a tipper or that they are closed in a dog or facility or that they are in a fenced area of at least 1.8 metres high, marked with a warning sign at the entrance. A dangerous dog is not to be trusted to manage persons under 16 years of age. Reports of suspicions of human bites or injured animals are at the annual level of about a thousand 500. In 2015 there were a thousand 512. Approximately 50% can be found by the holder of the animal; in 2015, the holder of the animals that were bitten by humans or animals was found in 758 cases. More later, if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomić, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your answer and for the opportunity to complete it. In the event that occurred in Maribor, it is a dog breed of Staffordshi Terrier, which in some countries is one of the dangerous and even forbidden breeds. In May, the dog of this breed in France bit an 18-month-old child to death. The person who owns this bitch has already boasted — you say there is no record — but she boasted in the media that dog fights are her life. And on Facebook it is also known as the Maribor Dog Fighter. These dogs are, you say, in accordance with the legislation, but that was the fifth bite. Probably after each bite, a woman should answer or take a dog to this school. She publicly admits that she has dogs to kill. That's terrible. This is the torture of animals that we had already raised ourselves up against months ago, for at the same time it puts other animals and humans at risk. Last year, the Food Safety Authority seized 127 dogs. I want to know: How many such dogs have been returned to owners who have been treated in the past for mistreatment of an animal? How many of these were dangerous dogs? How many dangerous dogs have been treated by the Food Safety Authority, such as the said dog, who has now attacked five times; and dogs have not been taken away or perhaps not sent to school? In short, do we have to have a dog bite a child before death in order for someone in the country to move, or can we act earlier?Oh, my God! When we proposed to amend the Penal Code in the United Left, it was said that human rights must be before animal rights. Here we see a good case that happened shortly after the rejection of our law that it is the right and protection of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u224	Thank you. Dear Member, I will respond to the things I now have written. You probably agree with me that I do not know all the operational data in the area of the Food Safety Authority. Allow me to provide you with additional information in writing if I do not answer anything. But let me do this. According to current data from the Central Dog Registry, 354 dogs have two or more bite marks. The legislation stipulates that dog education is compulsory or you have said so yourself, that dog education should be carried out no later than the second year completed; however, if the dog is two years old and within six months of the bite. According to the Central Registry of Dogs, 56 dogs are sent to school. 18 dogs were successfully trained. The owners of dangerous dogs who have re-bited a human being are, to a large extent, deciding for themselves the human execution of a dangerous animal. Penalties for the suspension of the physical protection of dogs and sanctions for the suspension of the duties of dangerous dog owners in most cases are imposed by the police. I would like to emphasise something else, but it must be noted again and again that animal welfare is the responsibility of animal owners. They are also responsible for the consequences of the actions of their animals. I am aware that this area, where it is always needed to seek some kind of correct relationship, is proportional. The relationship between being a living dog and being a specific relationship between a dog and its owner; on the other hand, how a dog endangers or does not endanger its surroundings. We're trying to find that balance. At this point, we are getting criticism from different sides. Some critics are why the administration that is competent has even decided to execute animals painlessly; on the other hand, criticism of why she did not make the decision earlier. Of course, we will probably discuss this and other cases and look for a proper environment. However, I fear that this is an area where we will never be fully satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u226	The killing of animals is the last stop of the tortured animal, and I stress – the dog is never to blame. The dog will do anything to satisfy his owner's wishes. The novel of the Penal Code, which we have filed in the United Left, has made the government’s side so abrasive that there is virtually nothing left of it. And here there was also a society to stop dog fights extremely disappointed, because they save these dogs and rear them so that no execution would be necessary. One of the things that was evident in the law was the inadequacy of a provision in which the owners who mistreated animals would be deprived of the animals. And if the novel had been adopted, then this policeman probably wouldn't have been bitten. It is a topic of animal torture, as well as the protection of human health and life. The existing arrangements are clearly inadequate and should definitely be improved. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request a general discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Madam Members, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September. Mr Peter Wilphan will ask the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Honourable Minister and the others present! My question today is from an area that we are all talking about in one way or another, and we are probably going to be talking about it for a while. These are waiting days in health care. But this time it's a very specific part of patients and a specific part of our health care. I'm talking about dentistry and children with special needs. Taking a child or even some adults to a dentist is often an extremely stressful act. For children with disabilities, such as autistic spectrum, these visits are even more traumatic. I was recently familiar with the case of the mother of the child with special needs, who had a severe toothache, which then, after verbal peripetions, only eventually received that guide under the rapid for the dental clinic. But what does that mean when you get a tip like that? This means that the child will come to the clinic for a checkup within two to three months. But pay attention, just for the examination, only after the examination of the condition of the teeth in sedation, that is, some kind of tranquillity, the competent ones decide when the procedure will actually take place. I probably do not need to stress in particular that this is a very sensitive group of children, not to mention that a child with special needs is under stress three times. For the first time, when their pedontologist or dentist tries to perform dental examinations, this is not easy for such children, on the basis of which the child gets a guide at all. The second time he is huddled in an unknown environment for examination; and the third time, when he is finally anaesthetized and performed this procedure. Thus, a child with special needs is three times deprived of a healthy child. Dear Minister, on the basis of the case I cited, I ask you: How is dental care arranged for children with special needs in the Republic of Slovenia; in particular for children who cannot be treated without adequate anaesthesia? How many children with special needs need dental care in general anesthesia? How many outpatients are doing this, and what are the waiting periods for such interventions? It is heard that children have been waiting for the intervention for two years. Moreover, it is heard that the dentist’s clinic, which is also supposed to carry out such interventions, is ready to do more than that, but the insurance company does not. I am aware that waiting days in health are a major problem in the entire health field. But I'm asking you: Don't you think it's urgent for children with special needs to be given priority? Like any parent, parents of children with special needs want to provide all the conditions for their child’s normal life. And there is also a need to include care and care for the child’s healthy teeth. If I conclude what is necessary for healthy children, it is so much more urgent or at least so urgent for children with special needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, Mr. Wilfan! The organisation of dental care for children and young people in the Republic of Slovenia also provides protection for persons with special needs, namely the selected personal physician who treats these persons. Most care in such children can be performed by the selected personal physician himself; but when he finds that the child needs surgery in anesthesia, he will be sent to one of the two outpatients in Slovenia where such interventions are performed. This is the Stomatological Clinic in Ljubljana, which has a special department or so-called Centre for Child and Preventive Dentistry; and the Maribor Health House. According to data from the Centre for Childhood and Preventive Dentistry, dental clinics in Ljubljana have modernly equipped offices, which are also specially prepared to be more friendly to children; they have equipment that the child can also watch cartoons or listen to music during the procedure. It is very important that these children be helped to overcome a fear that is often very severe, especially because it is children who are either chronically ill or have reduced mobility. There is no need for general drug care for all children with special needs, some of whom can only successfully intervene because they have a properly equipped infirmary. Therefore, the actual number of drug interventions performed is lower than the number of patients assigned to this procedure. And if I serve with the latest data now, in Ljubljana the dental clinic was performed annually between 100 and 150 interventions in general anaesthesia in children up to 18 years of age. Separate data are not collected for children with special needs. We're talking about child intervention by the age of 18 on an annual level between 100 and 150. Patients who are posted under urgent care shall be treated within 24 hours. It's not like there could be disinformation that's a waiting period. I also requested information on waiting periods and the number of pending interventions in general, for children up to 18 years of age, quickly and regularly. There is absolutely no waiting period within 24 hours, after the travel schedule it was fast on day 30. 6th number of pending 87th. In addition to the dental clinic in Ljubljana, such interventions are also carried out by Dr. Franc Derganca's Health Center in Maribor, where according to their 2015 data, the waiting period was 12 months for regular interventions and 58 patients were treated. The same is reported for data in 2016 that the waiting period was 12 months and 36 patients were treated, where they also help themselves with those doctors who run anaesthesia from UKC Maribor. The care of children with special needs, which requires work in general anesthesia, as I said, is performed for the Maribor Health House by an anesthesiologist from UKC Maribor. In view of the required intervention in the mouth, the dentist shall perform the procedure, which after a prior examination is also the most professionally qualified for it. And now for the payment. UKC Ljubljana, Stomatological Clinic receives a recognised payment for the flat-rate, this is the way to pay the health bills, which amounts to 1.03 teams, amounting to 437 000 euros, while Dr. Franca Derganca's Health Home is 0.28 teams worth 118 thousand euros. Since there is a general agreement at the very stage, we will check whether the needs are greater in order to possibly adapt the payment method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Wilphan, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u232	Minister, I thank you for the information you have just given. So that it doesn't turn out that I'm asking you something that I learned last week, and now I'm asking you here a question from a Member State, I want to tell you that me and my family with special needs problems are dealing with, in fact, we haven't been working, we've been living for 10 years, every day, every week, every month, every year, all year, all the time. Now I'm going to say one more case that might make it easier for us to understand. Imagine a boy, 10 years old, who doesn't speak, who is in one of the centres or institutions in the Ljubljana area. There they also have basic health and dental care. The dentist, who looked at this boy, found it necessary to perform some dental procedures, otherwise lasting consequences. For a child with special needs, especially with autism, it can be an unpleasant force, not just for him, but for the entire environment, for all those who live with him who work with him. And every delay brings a more difficult situation. The doctor also made it clear that this procedure can only be performed under the control of a drug. She also told the mother of this child, but at the same time said that regardless of what she would write on the guide, whether it was urgent, very urgent, quickly or very quickly, it was a waiting period of one and a half years to two. I will be very happy to check all your information, including this institution, to see what it holds and what it does not hold. But I have to tell you, I'm not entirely sure that everything you've said is true. But I wish it were. And I hope you hold or hold that you will still check the whole situation and that as soon as possible, you will do what those children deserve. This is when a dentist with all his professional authority and responsibility assesses that he needs such an intervention that the child will also be immediately involved and that the waiting period will be counted in days, not months or years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u234	Thank you for that information, too. If you give me the information, I'll personally ask myself what's really going on, whether it's true. In my opinion, after several requests that everything on the travel document is necessary and there is an appropriate explanation or diagnosis, why it is necessary — for example, for the medical clinics and others — he is invited to review and determine the situation within 24 hours. I have obtained this assurance, and with great joy and my commitment, if this is not so, if you're kind and I get a glimpse, I'll take a personal interest in and arrange these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Dr. Anzeta Logar is not here. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of the Interior of the Magi. Spring Györkös Žnidar Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I'm going to stay with our children, young people, too. Besides, for parents, children always remain children, but I would talk about the so - called search for missing persons. I would like to know if you were familiar with the petition for regulation or improvement of the situation in the area of finding missing persons by a civil initiative. I know it was signed by about 500 people. However, the petition also arose on the basis of well-known events when young Domno Simonič was sought and the concrete experiences the family faced. Let me say that Domna’s mother spoke very boldly about this experience from one of the evening shows and also specifically cited the problems they faced in finding her son. In the petition, the signatories also stressed, inter alia, that it is still important when an intensive search operation is launched, even in the light of possible insurance, if it is a crime. We know that the longer the matter moves away, the harder it is to access this information, or perhaps some irreparable damage that may occur. In this petition, the signatories called for some concrete changes. Of course, you can agree fully with some of them, with some not; but I am interested because the answer was quite formal. I want to know: Were you aware of this response from the Ministry, especially in the light of the question as to when this intense action would begin? Some of the documents I've been tracking, however, say that the police themselves will assess whether a search party needs to be carried out immediately and to what extent, to what extent. So there's someone who decides. I want to know: Is it an individual or a group that decides to what extent and when the intensity of the action begins? Were you familiar with the petition and the answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for your question! I think that your question is very important and very topical, because it is a very difficult area of police work on the one hand, I absolutely welcome it. On the other hand, it actually coincides in some way with our efforts to change legislation in this area; in the direction of more effective police work, because this is the real phenomenon of the police humanitarian work. This is about people who need police assistance, who may also be threatened in some way from the point of view of their lives and health. Any petition or any initiative coming to the Ministry is welcome if it is to improve the situation in this area. Of course, we are aware of all the problems our police officers face in carrying out this task, as well as family members, parents, friends of those who fall into the situation of missing persons. We know what irreparable damage this can cause. This is where I'm absolutely joining in with what you've said. But today I can only speak in general. I'm not going down on a case-by-case basis. The scope of the search for persons is regulated by the laws, i.e. by the Law on Police Tasks and Powers and also by the Criminal Procedure Act. However, because this is a situation where there is already a suspicion of a crime, as you yourself have found, this task actually stems from the task of protecting lives and personal security people. It's a basic task for the police. The police shall, on the basis of this provision, immediately upon application, so that when they receive an application that a certain person is missing, they shall begin to carry out all the follow-up tasks for that person. Of course, the police are adapting all their actions to the whole context of the situation; if they receive a report of missing children, they shall immediately approach all operational measures. Of course, in other cases of accession. However, its action is adapted to the collected notifications or data obtained by the police in this process. As long as a certain person is missing, the police are actually adapting measures, resources and also material resources with a view to effectively tracking or finding the missing person. However, I must point out here that we, too, face situations where in certain cases the police cannot meet the expectations of relatives of missing persons due to legal restrictions. Due to the legal limitations, in particular as regards the rapid, immediate location of the base stations, if circumstances do not yet indicate that the life or health of the missing person would be directly endangered. Rapid action is essential. In this context, our efforts to amend the Law on Police Tasks and Powers are also very important. I believe you are very well aware of the direction the whole discussion is going. We are trying to make the search for the police even more effective, and that is why this is also our fundamental objective in all these proposals that we are proposing. Therefore, we do not understand all those allegations, especially by the information officer, because I believe that the goal of us, you and all must be even more effective, because it is for the benefit of our people. As we say, there are certain limits. The legal basis for finding missing persons on the basis of the last location of mobile communications equipment is the Law on Electronic Communications; however, this applies only to those missing persons who are likely to be directly at risk. This is not the case for persons who are victims of crimes, this is the Criminal Procedure Act and there is another matter in criminal proceedings. However, we are working very hard to arrange this material in a way that would make the police even more effective in order to supplement this location information with some other information that could make the police even more successful in finding people. Certain restrictions were based on legislation restricting the use of drones and drones. We know that it's much easier to review settlements if the police have these technical means available. The amendment of legislation will also allow the police, if adopted, to carry out this humanitarian task even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased to hear your answer, also because the petitioners felt that they had not been heard in any part. Some of these parts have now been mentioned by you as problematic, including the Law on Electronic Communications and so on. From the answer they received, see, the answer is really very dry, depending on the problem. Since it is often doubtful about the timing of the search, some say when they report it, they say it is not yet time. I want to know: Is an internal act adopted under the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, which also provides that the Director-General of Police should adopt an internal act on how to search for persons? So I'm not talking about these people that are being searched through Interpol in a broader sense; I'm talking about this particular person. It seems to me that the police themselves sometimes find it difficult to determine whether it is really a quick intensity or not; then there is the criminal police. And one more thing, I actually think it's important here, you've said nicely that some things you intend to change together in this law, but we're also talking about the Law on Electronic Communications. In this case, it took the police four days to get the data where the boy's electronic device last appeared. This seems to me to be a very long time in view of the fact that police would probably need more authority in such cases. That's why I want to know: Does this internal act exist? Is it in it too? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you very much. As I have already pointed out in the introduction, this area is regulated at the legal level, as well as at the level of sub-legislative rules and guidelines that provide police with effective work in this area: a directive on the recruitment of wanted persons and objects and other measures, a reminder for the implementation of targeted search for persons, a set of guidelines and guidelines for the work of the police in the field of general police tasks. If we also look at the proposal to amend Article 43 of the Law on the tasks and powers of the police, in addition to all these measures, which we propose to be necessary in order for the police to carry out their work more effectively, it is also stipulated that the way in which the search for persons with an internal act is determined by the Director-General of Police. I agree, however, that this is an extremely sensitive area. The practice so far has also shown that there is a certain legal gap in this area, in the search for missing persons who, under the circumstances, are presumed to need help. In all these cases, police officers shall endeavour to collect notifications and any activities that they may carry out under existing legislation and to track down persons by inspecting certain areas. They are also assisted by the information obtained under the Electronic Communications Act, but I think that other data would be very useful. We are therefore very interested in amending the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. And I certainly do not agree with these allegations of mistrust in the work of the police, because all these measures are going in the direction that the police are even more effective, because, otherwise, the account for such mistrust can only be presented to people; this is not in the interest of anyone. As it is said, in practice it is found that situations are very complex, people leave home, maybe even relatives do not recognize the initial signs, maybe leave certain messages behind. The police should be allowed to access information on communications, i.e. not only those locations; then, perhaps video surveillance cameras, to see where these persons are moving, which direction, perhaps with the consent of the neighbour, to examine personal items, premises; then to look into data stored on the computer or on other media, of course, at the order of the investigating judge. This is where our proposals go. Data on payment may also be obtained, as this can also be important data. However, it should be known that for this purpose, we have also put in place safeguards to ensure that police officers can use these data only for the purpose of finding missing persons; that is, in a manner and in a extent that enables the search for the missing person to be found. If these proposals are accepted, I believe that together we can come up with solutions that will benefit our people. I hope I've answered everything you were interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u244	As changes are being prepared, I think it might be good to have a broader debate on this subject in the National Assembly. I'm not talking about your work here right now, because I see that you're preparing and thinking things; but I think I need to stop at the Director-General's job. The last time we discussed the 2015 report, I pointed out that his introductory text was rather political. I think it's very important that you rather focus on primary tasks. And the fact is that there is no internal act. This is not about your work, this is about the work of the Director-General; the internal act is not adopted. And maybe then even here the family can expect too much or on the other side know too little. Because there's a lot of open questions here. What you've already highlighted and I agree with you is that they find the missing person, that parents can't even get to her, or they won't let him see that they literally have to work with other citizens and friends around the vehicles just to see their child and to know where they're taking him. Perhaps in this light, and because you are preparing changes in this direction too, such a discussion would not be bad and would be for the benefit of the entire population in Slovenia. I hope that we will vote on it and also accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September. Mag. Branko Grims will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Spring Györkös Žnidar Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u246	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! Three days have passed since Dr Cerar's statement, which is truly historical in terms of the establishment of the rule of law for the Republic of Slovenia. What did the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Cerar, say when he spoke of a new wave of migrants? I quote: "We will not allow migrants crossing our Schengen border illegally into the European Union. We'll stop this any way." I repeat, it's probably history. "We'll stop it any way." Legally, this means by all means. But you can imagine if I said something like that last year. Not only have you ever considered me a Nazi, but I don't know what else is going on, but I'm sure next to my family for the Nazis would be the next-door pussy my kids like to worship. But times do change how interesting this is. How old foolishness and violations of laws return, for everything that happened to migrants, everything that the Slovenian government did was illegal – and you all know that – both in terms of European Union law and Slovenian law. By the way, this shipping by quotas made by the European Union is also contrary to certain legal acts that should be applied for asylum in the first safe country. If this country were in the European Union, within the Schengen area, this would then apply to the whole Schengen area. By the way, it's just for potential listeners today. What I want to ask when things are changing, and of course much more so, because on 2 October Hungary will have a referendum on migrants, which will reliably be reflected throughout the European Union, and if those who are responsible for illegal work with asylum seekers in the European Union are still so moved that this will not be the case. And then in Austria, which is our next-door neighbor, will finally be the second round of presidential elections, where, if anything very unusual happens, Norbert Hofer will win again. There will be early parliamentary elections in Austria, where the Austrian Freedom Party will then be the strongest party; and Mr Hofer and his colleagues will be our interlocutor, which will be extremely interesting. And so, Madam Minister, I ask you today, when is the time: How are you really going to implement these historical words by Dr. Cerar; even in the light of the fact that our neighbours are some migrants, I think eight of them were obviously illegally sent back once? And I hear it wasn't the only case. My question is not to comment on Dr Cerar's words or to change them; but how will you implement this decision, which I welcome because it means one – that the legal order will finally be respected in Slovenia. Half the mandate is the government that swore an oath on the rule of law [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Member of the Commission, I do not think that these words of Prime Minister Cerar are historic, because I think that they do not deviate significantly from the statements made by the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and perhaps some other members of the Government. Of course, it is right not to comment, nor have I been invited to comment on his statements. I believe that he himself has filled out these statements to a certain extent. It is known how the implementation of the Schengen regime is carried out, how the national border is protected. However, I will briefly tell you how we are preparing ourselves, how the government is preparing for a possible recurrence of the wave, and what are the circumstances of those who are emerging from the changed situation. We know that the difference given the previous situation is that countries in the north are closing down. This is the situation that we must properly implement in all our actions in preparing for a possible new wave. The migration situation has changed. We know that internal border controls are being established north of us, so Slovenia is also preparing more measures to ensure the security of the external border; rather than in the past. We are aware of our responsibilities as a Schengen country, we are under tighter control at the external border and at border crossings with Croatia and in the context of compensatory measures in the interior, because this is part of a comprehensive and effective protection of the state border. At the Ministry, we are also preparing certain legislative solutions and measures which, in the face of the changed migration situation, would, if public order and internal security were threatened, allow the effective functioning of the police in procedures with foreigners in terms of more efficient and faster treatment, in the sense of returning foreigners illegally crossing the state border. In the update phase, there are also plans for police activities, and there are also certain locations for dealing with these persons at the border, which will allow for even faster return to neighbouring safe countries. Also, the call for employment of new state border supervisors was outside, there are also activities in the field of temporary technical barriers, help us the Slovenian Army, help us Furs. The new Border and Coast Guard Regulation, replacing the existing Frontex Regulation, will also enter into force in October. In theory, Slovenia could also apply for Frontex forces under certain conditions, but I think it is more appropriate for these forces to go to the external borders of the European Union at the first stage, which Slovenia does not protect. A number of meetings at ministerial level are also planned. In the coming days, I will first meet with the Minister of the Interior of Germany, then I will immediately meet with the Polish Interior Minister. At this moment, too, very intensive activities are taking place for my meeting with the other ministers of the Visegraj Group, with whom we have very good relations, and they have also jumped to my aid on my call. The general directors of the police are also meeting at lower operational levels to unify their views on possible solutions and to establish models for future cooperation or arrangements to help protect the external and Schengen borders. But I'm glad you highlighted Austria's actions. We immediately objected to the establishment of temporary border controls between Slovenia and Austria, because I believe that there is absolutely no objective reason for these internal borders, since the situation in Slovenia poses no threat to Austria or to any other part of the Schengen area. This last act of Austria shows that these measures do not come from either a security picture or a border crossing situation, but that the Schengen is already becoming an external policy issue. We have so hurled about the misconduct of the Austrian security authorities. We also called for a consistent implementation of the return agreement. The data we have so far indicate that at least so far the case has been cleared at the operational level and that such situations will no longer occur in the future. But if that happens again, we'll raise the matter to a higher level, so to speak. In the preparatory phase, a trilateral initiative between Slovenia, Austria and Croatia, which will also help the Western Balkan countries to establish a contingent plan to help countries, in particular Macedonia and Serbia, is of paramount importance. A network of contact points will also work, through which data on trends, activities and legislative measures will be exchanged to help us manage the situation in the region. And in this way the situation in Slovenia will also be manageable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, do you request a follow-up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u250	Today, Slovenia's media is reporting a significant increase in the flow of migrants to Greece. Of course, this is not exactly as it appears in Slovenian media, because this flow has been increasing very rapidly for some time now. While it is staggering daily, it is increasing significantly; in addition, the flow of migrants has increased significantly again across the Mediterranean to the territory of the Republic of Italy. The fact is, taking into account all illegal crossings across the external borders of the European Union, the flow is not even as significantly lower as it was at its peak last fall; this is a very serious warning. It is clear that this treaty, which goes to those responsible for illegality and thus for all terrorist events in Europe, for all crimes, is now trying to overcome this and say that they are talking to Erdogan. But of course, there'll be nothing out of these deals. This is clear to all who know little about international politics, because it is a matter of mutual blackmail and holding in pliers. This isn't gonna end well. In these circumstances, the question is, What do neighbors do and what do we do? It's clear with the neighbors. It's true what you said that they do what they do. Just why? Because you illegally let half a million migrants across the border last year. And we are defending the external Schengen border, even though we are no longer an external country of the European Union. Which, of course, means we're so much more responsible. And now it's coming back like a boomerang. And so once again, I ask: How, in fact, if you can be specific, will you implement Dr. Cerar's words to prevent any illegal border crossing, I quote Dr. Cerar, "any way"?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Again, I do not know how many times, there have been no violations; neither from the point of view of European legislation nor from the point of view of national legislation. The Schengen acquis has been continuously implemented taking into account all the specifications. The government followed every direction, including this national assembly. If you've forgotten, I can read it for you. It has been explicitly ordered that the Republic of Slovenia should view the current migration crisis as a humanitarian crisis and act in accordance with the European principles of solidarity in all procedures. This is the conclusion of the National Assembly. I'm absolutely not agreeing to this obvious that anything was wrong because it wasn't. The quotas have also been agreed at the level of Heads of State who have undertaken to move or relocate a certain number of persons who obviously need international protection; and this is also being done. Slovenia is fully aware of its responsibilities as countries on the external Schengen border and is implementing the Schengen acquis. Slovenia has never opened a border and will never open it on the basis of those countries in the north that have actually opened borders. I don't think this Schengen demagogy is going to help with the situation. These incomplete allegations that Slovenia did not respect the Schengen acquis are not in line with what I just said; also in line with this decision of the National Assembly. And you never finish your performances, never tell what Slovenia should do at the border when 15,000 people — children, women, pregnant women — arrive. How should Slovenia act in your own way?Oh, my God! And I wonder why the National Assembly then ordered the then government to use the police at the border to use the police force. Let us discuss this if you insist that Slovenia has done something wrong. The alternative to the situation, like now, is 500 000 applicants for international protection in Slovenia or a huge refugee camp on our border because we know that these people did not want to stay in Slovenia, they wanted to move on because they were invited in some way. And Slovenia acted perfectly soberly, proportionately, ensuring humane treatment of almost 500 000 migrants, and protecting our national interests. I can't understand why Slovenia is here. We organised ourselves, we treated these people humanely, we stopped the migration flow first, and we also created the conditions that this solution in Macedonia had been intercepted, that the situation had settled into normal frameworks. Of course, no one can predict the future. For us, the key aspects of security are, for us, a key aspect of how to protect national interests, given that European solutions are very fragile; how to prevent the break of the asylum system in relation to our absorption capabilities; and how to take care of those who will eventually find themselves in our territory, because some of them will definitely be. That's a fact. And everything else is politics and demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, you have a request for a hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u254	In view of the extremely interesting words of the Minister, I must propose that the National Assembly speak on this. If we're talking about demagogism, Madam Secretary-General. The government's instructions were that the borders had been opened, that what we popularly called an illegal migrant express had been played, that people without sufficient verification, in line with the standards of Schengen, were sent across the border. At that time, I warned you that it would certainly happen that terrorists would be hiding among them; but you made a fool out of it. Even after the terrorist attacks happened, you said, "We don't have any data on anyone going through Slovenia." What is it now? It has now proved unrelenting, and CNN has already reported that at least eight people who were directly supporting or planning terrorist acts were going through Slovenia under this migratory flow. The assessment of the German Secret Service, published on their website, you certainly know it, is that the total number of terrorists who came to Germany with a migrant flow was about a million and a half, slightly over 500, and that is to say, there were at least 150 terrorists across Slovenia. But you made it possible for them to do this because you instructed the police not to carry out all things by law. That's true, Dr. Cerar himself confirmed. Then, when you really started re-enacting the Schengen to a large extent, when he said that we would be implementing the Schengen at midnight — and you said something similar. The same was confirmed at the last meeting of the Director of Police when I asked him the same question as you – I also said at the press conference after – when he said, "We are ready to be fully implementing legislation at any time." And I told him that we should not always fully implement the legislation. Once again, I do not claim that the police are guilty or are employed; you are to blame in the government and your coalition for giving instructions that the acquis of the European Union may be violated. And now it's coming back like a boomerang. For neighbors, we are not as credible as it might be said, because they are looking at the country through its government, by its rulings; and for this reason they are treating us this way and then they are trying all the tricks; also by sending us some illegal back. This arrangement between the heads of state you mentioned, things are too late and in the wrong way. If I may remind you of just one of the statements made by the Heads of State, French President Hollande said that we must live with terrorism. I'm sorry, I won't! And I never agree that anyone in office has the right to say something like that. And that's why the National Assembly has to talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September. I apologize on behalf of the Sectional Service. They'll replace your microphone because there's something wrong with it. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Chairman. This time my question will not be directly Maribor, of course it will indirectly be Maribor, but therefore no less important. Minister of Infrastructure, I ask you about the appropriateness of carrying out the process of so-called ECS or the procedure for selecting the operator to establish an electronic toll system for freight vehicles in the Republic of Slovenia. I want to know: Are you assessing that the selection process of the contractor has been carried out in a sufficiently transparent and professional manner? It was procedurally clear, as confirmed by the State Audit Commission. But above all, I want to know: Has he been economically justified, especially in view of all the evidence we have recently read from the media? As can be seen from these media, the government will have to provide a guarantee for the implementation of a project which, after some projections, provides only EUR 15 million of additional toll revenue, and even less for others. It is heard that potential unelected operators could provide additional 80 million additional revenues under this heading of electronic tolling of trucks in Slovenia. It is true that the choice of an operator for electronic tolling is in Dars' hands, but the government will still have to make a guarantee for this project. As an option solution in such projects is also possible a public-private partnership, I am interested in: Why didn't Dars try this option? I know this, it is clear to me that Dars has a certain measure of autonomy; however, the country, as a good host, must take advantage of this opportunity and the opportunity to reject projects that carry new financial burdens to the country – or potential in a particular case – if it has financial solutions that are more favourable than existing ones. Mr. Secretary, at the conclusion of this, I would like to know: Will it be possible to extend the electronic toll system to the 3rd development axis, which will soon, I am sure, come to life? Are you thinking of moving truck to and from public roads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member, the competences regarding tolling are fully vested in Dars; I think it is important to clarify this in the first place. Accordingly, Dars also issued a public order last July to establish and operate an electronic toll system in free circulation. This is for electronic tolling on transported kilometres for trucks or all vehicles weighing more than 3 000 500 kilograms. In December of last year, Dars also performed the opening of bids. They received four tenders, which were then also carefully reviewed and evaluated by the contracting authority under these published criteria. For the evaluation of tenders and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, she also prepared a proposal for the selection of the most favourable bidder, which Dars as a contracting authority also confirmed and selected the Slovenian-Norwegian consortium as a contractor, namely the consortium of Telekom Slovenije and Q-Free. The offer price was less than EUR 100 million. However, all three unchosen tenderers complained about the selection of the contracting entity. However, the audit requests submitted were then decided by the State Audit Commission, which, by its decision by a legislative decision or decision, also adopted on 29 July of this year and rejected all these requests in full. Then Darsa’s decision on selecting the contractor became legal. Accordingly, a contract with this selected contractor was concluded on 6 September of this year, i.e. a bad one 14 days ago. I think that as regards the correctness and legality of the implementation of this procedure, the State Audit Commission has said everything, which is also extensively explained in the State Audit Commission's explanation of over 70 pages of the text. The establishment of an electronic toll system will be fully financed by Dars and is not expected to require State guarantees for this investment. This is important. Dars is not going to need a state guarantee for this investment. With regard to estimates of additional inflows from the toll collected, these projections made by Dars suggest that some 8.5% more will be collected due to the fact that the system will be complete. There will be no more compartments where the trucks were not towed. Some €15 million of additional inflows are expected from this heading annually. The choice of technologies or tolling systems shall not affect these inflows; no matter what system. If we toll the highway system by miles, we will choose roughly the same or the same tide regardless of what the system is. Or some may be a little more expensive, a little cheaper — then there is a possible difference. The inflow from the collected tolls is the same regardless of this technology. Higher inflows would, however, be possible by increasing traffic or by raising toll tariffs. With regard to the public-private partnership, let me add that Dars has also prepared a baseline, conceptual document in which he has also processed the possibility of a public-private partnership, which has not proved to be the most favourable since the investor in this particular case is able to finance the investment itself, i.e. independently. I also say that the electronic toll system can also be extended to new toll sections, i.e. also to the 3rd development axis. Freight transport on other state roads is not yet envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl, please, request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I have already said this in the introduction that it is clear to me that there is a high degree of autonomy here for Dars and that the procedure has been assessed by the State Audit Commission as appropriate. But I asked what you somehow answered me whether it was justified from an economic point of view. You say everyone complained, except for the chosen contractor. Then you'd think it was okay. If everyone's unhappy, except for that one, then you've obviously chosen the right one. Through your answers, I was reluctant to ask this question. It is always a dilemma – whether to go on a new matter or to modify an existing system. Were these also possible with the existing system, such as that it could be upgraded in some way? Of course, one more question: Why not the other roads? I don't want to be the one who wants the last euro from the truckers or whatever I call it. However, I note that many freight traffic is also on roads that are not this highway cross in Slovenia. It may be appropriate to consider these matters at the very moment when the State of Spar and tries to make the most of the pension and health allowance, including the budget. Otherwise, thank you very much for the additional explanation for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u262	Thank you very much. As regards which system or why additional tolling is not yet envisaged on other state roads, this decision was taken a few years ago when Darsu was given a framework to ensure tolling in the free course of freight vehicles; and exclusively on a network operated by Dars; a motorway network and freight vehicles are called. Therefore, for personal vehicles, we remain on vignettes, not tolls, even on transported kilometres of passenger vehicles; and we do not toll trucks anywhere outside the network operated by Dars. To a large extent, we are also determining the technology that is relevant for a certain tolling framework. If personal vehicles also wanted to be tolled, and if they also wanted to expand outside the Dars-run network, they would probably have made sense and reasonable offers such as the one now selected for that price. As I've been informed, there's a selection of offers that offer microwave technology. This is a similar technology they know in Austria. We do know, however, that some countries in the European Union, including Slovakia, are crossing or already using satellite technology, which is much more flexible if they want to introduce tolls on the rest of the network, on state roads or possibly on other types of vehicles. In the past, when Darsu was ordered a few years ago to secure the tolling of cargo vehicles on his network, the usefulness of this technology was in some way conditioned. Within these options, technologies were also offered, and in the context of these tenders received. Discussing what would happen if it were, but it is probably a matter of another debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, in the role of Minister of Finance and Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u264	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a question regarding the use of European funds this year. We are all aware here that European funds are also a very important item for the Slovenian budget. Given the public availability of data, we can see that the movement of the expenditure and revenue of the Slovenian budget for 2016 is approximately in line with what has also been announced. However, the most significant deviation is the forecast revenue from European funds. Can you explain to Parliament and the general public where this derogation is due? What is the known reality so far, at least for the first seven months? If I have the correct data, we planned almost one billion of these funds for 2016, or 927 million euros. What is the realisation on the last available day and what is the framework by the end of the year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u266	Thank you very much for the question that I thank for, because I believe, not only do we report to the Committee on European Affairs; it is only right that you, Members, as well as the general public hear about the state of use of European funds. To understand this story a little better, I have to start with the last two years. In the last two years, the amounts Slovenia has managed to absorb have been extremely high. However, we must be aware of one fact that in the previous perspective, almost half of the funds have been drawn up in the past nine years, when it is possible to draw on funds, only in the last two years, when the perspective has officially ended. That's why we had a pretty big anomaly. Why? Because we've had 4 billion of the funds at our disposal in the last two years. This means that investments were extremely high at the time; and this is the key anomaly. Despite the fact that all the resources, because I can talk about all the resources here, have indeed been burdened in these two years by drawing, we have nevertheless managed to establish all the documents necessary for the new perspective. Last year we also set up a regulatory framework. If I go back to what we already have right now, it's next. I will limit myself only to the part that I am responsible for in my job, because, in addition, we have another large part on the ICGP, says agriculture, fisheries, migrants. And only one part of that billion that you mentioned actually belongs to me; here we can talk about about some 400 million Euros. The fact is that pumping is taking place slower than we anticipated, but at this point I can serve with information that we have issued decisions on support by today, it is said when the director gets a green light, that he can start with a project if it is a direct confirmation or that it is a public tender if we are talking about public calls; we have issued 109 decisions for EUR 672 million in the framework of the management body. This means that this is the part that practically makes it possible to pump now. I can gladly suggest that one of the projects that will be the first such investment project to be completed, the cleaning plant in Kamnik will be opened in the coming month. The fact is that the pumping is taking place, the fact is that in the following year we are going to issue about a billion and a half euros of all support decisions, which also means half of the total amount available to Slovenia by 2023. If we compare ourselves with the other countries of the European Union, we can see that Slovenia is not lagging behind. About half of them have already notified or nominated their bodies to the European Commission. However, there are about 25% of these, and some operational programmes have already made reimbursements. And that's the part that's still waiting for us this year. We now have two priorities by the end of this year. On the one hand, to further accredit the system so that we can start demanding reimbursements from Brussels; and on the other hand, to ensure that, at the end of the previous period from Brussels, we successfully transfer the last 5% of the funds currently held by all countries on the European Commission. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u267	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u268	Madam President, thank you once again for the floor. Dear Minister, I am not satisfied with your answer. I am not satisfied for a number of reasons, you have not specifically answered those questions that I have asked you. I also asked you a question as Minister of Finance. For this reason, I expect you to give me further this explanation for which I have asked you a question. You have argued that we cannot expect such a high-quality use of European funds in view of the success of the previous two years in this year. Then why is the budget item of EUR 927 million for European funds? The question was: How much is this resource spent on the last known day, and how much is expected by the end of the year? And at least from publicly available data, I can tell you that in July Slovenia has absorbed 642 000 euros in resources because it is at least, since Slovenia is a member of the European Union. And in June, 6.4 million euros, which is the second lowest amount since Slovenia is a member of the European Union. This year, the difference between gross and net payments is only EUR 54 million. What's it gonna be by the end of the year? The end of last year was about 450 million. What are the reasons why Slovenia still does not have a signed document on the European perspective for the period 2014-2020?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u270	I'm gonna change my hat, and I'm gonna go for the big story you want. In fact, in the 2016 national budget, we planned a billion euros from the funds received, of which 312 million were for the implementation of the common agricultural and fisheries policy, 300 million from the Structural Fund, 200 million from the Cohesion Fund, 135 million from other programmes; and 73 million from the last 73 million from the migrant flow management revenue. After two thirds of a year, we find that the targets will be largely achieved. In fact, we have realised the revenue from the cohesion envelope at the expected amount of around EUR 100 million, and the lower drawdown is recorded in mass migration-related funds because they have not incurred such high costs; and so will the revenue we have been counting on will not be EUR 65 million. On the other hand, the funding linked to the multiannual financial framework of cohesion policy – at the expense of the certifying authority, at the Ministry of Finance – is € 143 million under this heading, which will become the revenue of the state budget when the relevant documentation is verified. However, I can certainly confirm that the implementation of the cohesion policy of the programming period is ongoing. The expenditure of the state budget for the European Union projects under the Cohesion envelope currently amounts to EUR 38 million. As it is said, this value is not yet reflected on the revenue side of the budget and will certainly be recorded as the revenue of the State budget by the end of the financial year. Let me explain that in terms of the budget, expenditure on European Union funds does not affect the deficit of the state budget. The deficit shall be reflected in the period during which the payment appropriations shall be borrowed from the State budget and until they are reimbursed in the State budget. The fact is that there has been a delay in drawing on the European Union's resources, which I explained why. People are still doing double work and in addition to accrediting the system, because the accreditation of the system is not linked to documents, we have completed the documents in full at the end of 2014. The fact is, a certificate that the system works must be certified by the Authority of the Budgetary Control Authority, which is our audit body. We're here in the final stages. But once again, Slovenia is not lagging behind when drawing up other members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u272	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I will use this option offered by the Rules of Procedure to request a public debate on the issue of drawing on European funds. Dear Minister, I rarely use this instrument offered to me by the Rules of Procedure, a public debate. Dear Minister, you haven't answered any questions to me today. Not even a specific question with a number on the available day, how many of these funds have been exhausted since 927; and you have also not answered me the essential question why there is no signed document for the 2014-2020 perspective. I am convinced that European funds are an important segment in the development of Slovenia and investment policy, whether they affect the budget deficit or not. And your government has always stressed how the budget is developed and targeted. One of the important factors in the development of Slovenia, the development of the budget are European funds. According to all the information we have available, it can be seen that European funding is poor in 2016 compared to previous years, or by another word – catastrophic. We have a difference between net and gross payments; by July only EUR 54 million in surpluses. For comparison only, at the end of 2015 this figure was more than 400 million. And you haven't answered what's expected by the end of the year. And this revenue from European funds of EUR 927 million was made up of your government; your ministers made this announcement. It is now necessary to determine where the reason is that these funds are being reduced at a given time. But you did not answer how close we are to this number 927 by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September, in the framework of the votes. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, in the role of Minister for Finance, Mrs Alenka Smrkolj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all those who insist! We're getting a new law on higher education. This law provides for a financing formula which in Article 43 modifies the reference point referred to in Article 27 with a target value of 1% of the gross social product; that is the amount of funding for higher education. These funds are to be increased gradually until they reach the target level, no later than 15 years, which is, by the way, a significant period of time. This period may be extended by one year for each year in those fifteenths when economic growth is negative. In this way, the level of funding of higher education is directly dependent on the performance of the economy. But watch out, it's not an abstract economy, it's a logic that higher education is just a pendant or completely subordinate to the logic of capitalist accumulation. And it is clear to all higher education stakeholders that this is not enough to maintain the quality and progress of higher education. We need more resources, the only Ministry of Education is holding their eyes here. The same Article provides for nominal growth, which is at least consistent with the growth of gross social product, to be ensured during the period up to the year when the medium-term balance of budgets will be achieved with the fiscal rule. Inflation is eliminated from this formula, which does not present any problems in the current economic situation; this potentially poses very major problems, mainly due to the growth of employees' salaries. In response to the written question sent to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education, we have not received any convincing answers why such a solution or compromise as they call it; except for the reference to a fiscal rule. That's why I'm interested in the following things: Can the requirements or instructions of the Ministry of Finance, which will bring lower and less stable funding, have consequences for the long-term quality and accessibility of higher education? Why does the Ministry of Finance insist on such a formula, despite the fact that coordination with real, rather than nominal, gross social product growth, is opposed by a working group at the Ministry of Education to prepare a novel, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, university rectors and other stakeholders? What arguments have the Ministry of Education convinced the Ministry of Finance to adopt this instruction? Has the Ministry of Finance produced a simulation of the differences in financial effects in the case of coordination of the volume of financing with real growth or nominal GDP growth in the first part of the transitional period? On what data did the Ministry of Finance base its instructions to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Madam President. All Members and Members of Parliament who are still insisting; Honourable colleagues from the Council of Ministers! During the crisis, in addition to science and the work of higher education, the area of higher education received one of the biggest declines in the integrated budget; therefore, we have also tried, and in line with the working group, to find the right approach and way to resolve the financial stability of this part of the system. As such, the education system needs its protection of growth and quality at the same time, and it has been the most important and crucial guide to follow on the one hand the prospects for faster growth; on the other hand, we will apply this solution to the so-called macroeconomic and equilibrium requirements as regards the budget and also the fiscal rule. The fiscal rule has been adopted by Parliament and, therefore, we must stick to it as a state and everyone in the departments. First of all, the intention of the working group has been much more ambitious, so your question is justified; however, for the first time so far, we have been regulating stability in the financing of higher education. This also prevents any interruption not only of the funding of activities due to the fall in funds, but also the possibility of ensuring that when gross domestic product or economic growth is higher than anticipated, the portfolio can also obtain more than is derived from macroeconomic indicators; or, as far as possible, the overall stability of the funding of the resource and the envisaged formula. Why am I stressing this? The emphasis on the solution of the formula is "at least", so the ceiling of funding is not defined. However, it defines the lowest rate, which is also crucial in view of what we have experienced in the time of the ZUJF and the entire crisis period. At the same time, I reiterate that this is indeed the first proposed system funding framework, that several proposals have been made since 2011, but no one has had the appropriate agreement to proceed with the procedure. Finally, with the constructive cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, the working group agreed with the proposed proposal; at the same time, we all focus on sustainable growth in macroeconomic frameworks and commitments that are the financial character of the whole country. I stress once again the minimum rate of growth, i.e. not the early limit; and at the same time, in favourable macroeconomic circumstances, this may mean more growth than the law provides. Let me also point out that we have already adopted a new regulation in terms of funding planning for this area this year, which was necessary because the financing of this area is growing faster than GDP has grown; this is already the first sign of the recovery of this area and therefore the real belief in the stability of the financing and development of the area. Regarding one percent of gross social product – this part was coordinated within the working group. The views differed with regard to similarity, but I believe that, given the commitments that this country has made, we have found the best possible way and solution, and we have also written in the law as a proposal – I hope that it will also be confirmed and adopted – that it is possible to finance a variable part within this funding formula, which is particularly crucial in terms of achieving the objectives. So it is not only about funding as such, in itself; it is also about achieving the objectives of this funding. We therefore propose four-year contracts in cooperation with higher education institutions or knowledge institutions, where we clearly set out the objectives for which we then also verify the implementation of commitments, consumption and the purpose of using these funds. An important part is this variable part of the thinking of the core pillar, as it promotes the academic quality and the quality of this academic environment with a view to the balanced development of higher education institutions. Such a way will also allow guidance to the institution, but it will not be possible to define such objectives if a stable view of funding is not known in advance. And this was also a prerequisite that the working group agreed with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u278	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, I'm asking for a full response. As for the arguments to convince the Ministry of Education to accept this poor formula for underprivileged financing of higher education, we have heard two. Firstly, it was a substantive argument of stability; and secondly, it was a formal argument of a fiscal rule. But, for the first time, it was this government or its coalition that went to adopt a fiscal rule. You can't make excuses for the same fiscal rule you supported yourself. Secondly, as regards stability, this is stability in misery, stability from co-financing. This is some kind of stability that no one wants, as far as the variable parts are concerned. But it is given to the mercy of the government, and we have done nothing of much different value than this situation now. We have heard that one of the most optimal solutions has been chosen. On what basis do you decide, and how do you think this solution was optimal if the answer to whether any simulations have been made is not given at all?Oh, my God! That's because these simulations aren't in the back. But it seems very irresponsible to me that one such developmentally important sector as higher education is being changed, financed, also being bullied without any serious calculations. And, of course, we can't talk about any of the best solutions here. I also asked the question in advance: Why does the Ministry of Finance insist on this formula if it is extremely poor for higher education if it is opposed by more or less all stakeholders? These are just questions I'd like to make. And the question again for the Ministry of Finance: So how do you feel about the fact that you are also in the role of Minister of Development, that higher education is completely subordinate to the logic of capitalist accumulation? However, the higher education sector is a developmental key, regardless of whether we are in socialism, capitalism [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Alenka Smercol.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u280	Maybe I'll start with what the primary objective is in the role of Minister of Finance. I think every finance minister will answer the same. This is that the country has sound, balanced and sustainable public finances. And this is also the fiscal rule that this National Assembly has adopted. Together, we agreed that we would not leave debts as our predecessors may have; that we would take care of the fate of our children in a different way, because that is the meaning of the fiscal rule. The second story is that compromises must always be made here. And the fact is that the Ministry of Finance has produced different simulations, and we have found that, while taking into account the provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act, any other option would be virtually impossible because the pressure would be too great. That is why a compromise has been adopted that still allows not a nominal story, but in cases where we actually have a better macroeconomic environment, the Ministry of Education can actually allocate more resources within its budget. In view of how the Ministry of Education also negotiates under the budget, I believe that it will start with the requirements before we even start talking about the budget, because they are actually doing a good job on this part. As far as development is concerned, I cannot agree more that education – I have recently called learning for life – is a key education system that contributes to moving forward. I can only say that I will absolutely support this, but still, I am sorry for all of us, but only within what we can afford. This framework, however, gives us what the National Assembly has adopted with fiscal rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, do you have a procedural request? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, chairman. Higher education should not be a rotten compromise, but that is exactly what the new law on higher education and the method of financing it envisages is promising. Of all the arguments and arguments, last but not least, everything remained in a fact called a fiscal rule. But a fiscal rule cannot be used by a coalition or its government, which has called the same rule to life. In doing so, we know that this is an anti-social rule, a rule that largely blocks development; any progressive resolution of capitalist crises. The only rational solution to capitalist crises by increasing public expenditure is stopped in bicycles because of a instance called a fiscal rule. And the victim of this is now a higher education. In this context, we cannot talk about any of the best solutions that we have heard from government representatives. Of course, we cannot speak seriously about stability in such a context. You know what else is stable in our country? The growth of long-term poverty. Are we really going to consider the stability criteria in this context as something positive? Of course not. A similar story is here. The mode of funding, as is borne by the promising law on higher education, is stability in co-financing, stability in the wake of misery. That is why we are calling for a public debate in the United Left on this issue. We simply do not agree to some of the solutions offered here by the government; to some solutions that are opposed to practically anyone who has any interest in higher education. Of course it's clear why. These solutions are bad. Sorry, these solutions are extremely good for the country as a capital service; they are extremely bad for the country as a human service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Thursday, 22 September, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, who is absent, and the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, in the role of Minister of Finance, Mrs Alenka Smerkolj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u284	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, nice greeting to you too. Again, September of the current year, and as always the state is preparing a budget or a budget rebalancing, the same is true of budgets or budgets of local communities. And the question of the average plays a very important role in this. We all know what the law says, that an agreement must be reached between the competent communities or associations of congregations and between the government. But in recent years, the government has repeatedly listened to the congregations, and then it has determined, at least for itself, an acceptable average. We all know that the average in 2013 was still €536. In these last months, in recent weeks, the days when we hear about how great this country has progressed over the last two years, we are talking about a lower average. And a person unwittingly gets the feeling that some have received some of this seemingly better condition. The public sector has received quite a few million at the expense of the better living conditions that the government represents. On the other hand, local communities, although the new European perspective is not so favourable to local communities, want some help to survive and invest. Because it is the citizens who feel the most about whether the congregation works or does not work. When we look at the budget as municipal councilors, we see whether we are going to pay kindergartens as a congregation or as parents; whether we are going to pay services in individual sectors as citizens or whether it is going to be taken over by the congregation, which means again in some direction by citizens and citizens. Dear V.D. Minister, since I have been following very carefully from Friday to today, although I have been following the stale information about where we are on average today, today I have received an answer that the government side is offering 530 euros for 2017; while the Community of Municipalities and the Association of Municipalities are demanding EUR 542 – 536 for their calculations, added by an increase in economic growth and due to coordination with the public sector. Dear V.D. Minister, I'm interested in: Were you present at this meeting today? Can you tell us a little more about what today's average arrangements are; and what can we expect when we accept the country's budget balance; what will be the final figure? For this will also be very dependent on the adoption of municipal budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Minister Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u286	Thank you for that question. First answer — no, today I was not present at these meetings. They were led by the future minister, I hope, Matthew Vranič Erman. Of course, I am aware of the maximum that the State can offer to the congregations. Maybe I should start here with what happened when we started talking to the congregations. From the beginning, it was practically agreed that the amount of the average for 2018, because of course we are talking about 2017 and 2018, at EUR 536 for the municipalities is acceptable. This means that we have reached an agreement in this area. From there, interviews were held on average in 2017. As regards the average 2017, the government has listened to the arguments of municipalities that their obligations will be higher in the coming year, and I am talking mainly about the cost of a salary increase of 2.5%. And for this reason, we are actually our original average proposal for 2017, which was EUR 524 – let me remind you that it is 522 this year – so we came first to 529 and now, as the last option the government still has, to EUR 530. However, it is indeed a condition for this amount of the average to remain in force a provision that has been in force for two years now, that all municipalities are financed only up to the level of the eligible expenditure and that they do not have surpluses over the appropriate use of the so-called appropriate amount of funds. Otherwise, if these surpluses were to be recognised, the average should be lower. The municipalities are still insisting on a proposal of at least €536, but the government party cannot agree to this because the public financial capacity of the country is still limited, irrespective of the resurgence of economic growth. And yet here it is important – and I think the congregations are also aware – that with higher economic activity the required structural effort is also increasing. The greater the economic growth we have, the greater the structural effort we have to make in line with fiscal rules. And that is the amount for which we still have to reduce the deficit of the state sector until we reach a balance. The appropriate consumption of municipalities could only be increased by additional burden on the state budget or by reducing other expenditure. Here we must be aware that each euro of average amounts to EUR 2 million of expenditure. There's just some compromise to be found here. Arrangements with the congregations are still under way, we believe they will be concluded this week. In addition to agreeing on the amount of the average and investment transfer, the proposal to amend the allocation method within the municipalities in a way that would increase the corresponding weight of the two groups of people who on average represent higher costs for municipal budgets. Discussions shall also take place on the subject of amendments to the Rules setting out the costs or programmes which are the basis for the so-called obligations of the municipalities. This will be the case in particular with any further agreement for 2018. However, I would like to remind you that last year, at an average of €522, the municipalities ended up with almost €30 million in excess of expenditure, even though they have invested enormously this year. And I also say that the municipal budgets in the first seven months of this year, at an average of €522, are already showing a total of €71 million in surplus. We are convinced that the average, which will nevertheless be significantly higher than this year and that of the previous year, makes it absolutely possible for all municipalities to carry out the tasks they have to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u288	Thank you very much for the information from today's negotiations. First of all, it's about surplus. If you're planning an investment, it's very nice not to start off with a minus. And I, as a municipal councillor, have already been in one relatively large municipality convincing the mayor or I agree with the mayor when he says that we should give something that may fall on the part of the state or on the part of Europe, and that is what is called calls for. But the problem is that there is no or no such invitation to tender is that the congregations do not apply to them because they do not receive the VAT paid back. If the success of the country is that there are some State calls where the state gives 20%, then the state boasts how much it has done, has made little mistake or knows some other systems in more developed municipalities, and especially local self-governments more friendly. I understand that at the head of this government is a modern centre party that has no practical experience in mayoring. Not as much as you want the councillors as you want them to, but the fact is, if there are different starting points, you can't agree. Now the government will sell the success story as it approaches the congregations, and the congregations say their starting points are too low. I remember the calculation that is known in the law, not about the number of €536, but €636. Yes, each euro amounts to €2 million for the state budget, but, honourable Members and Members, $20 million for the state-owned Slovenian State Forests – with ease; $100 million for public sector salaries – with ease. Obviously, all of this will be paid by citizens, i.e. local communities, crafts and economies. And once again, I want to know: Is it still possible to come together?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Smercolj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u290	I've been looking a lot at where I can get to. When you are making a budget – and the budget will be dealt with by the Government this Thursday at the government meeting before you, Members of Parliament, in the National Assembly – it is necessary to determine where you have the biggest downsides. And the fact is, in the framework of the budget, we have really great battles in the districts. This autumn we have a wide autumn with trade unions that are dissatisfied with the fact that they have received in the public sector. Here each of us can have his own opinion, but each of these groups needs to be negotiated and the budget closed at the end. In this context, it has been found that practically we cannot offer more than €524 to the municipalities. The reason why we could have taken this step up to €530 is only because we made the last day of August of issuing and replacing bonds. This is a transaction where we bought out the dollar bonds and committed ourselves to the euro; this is how we in some way saved that amount nominally in the next budget. I'm afraid there's no room here anymore. I do not think that the congregations will ever be satisfied with this proposal. I believe that they may not want to make a deal; on the other hand, I believe that in the end, we will all find, with a slightly inclined head, that there is no other option. The answer is that there is little or no room for additional offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good evening, Madam Secretary. I turn to you for something that is in the past and even in the present — and I hope that in the future it will no longer spoil our nation. I am talking about a decent burial, I am talking about a half-lived history, not to open up questions, but – as I have always wanted to do in politics – to close certain chapters and go over them, to forgive ourselves, to apologize and to go up against new challenges; as politics has repeatedly exploited mainly because of its incompetence to put on some of the pains. It is precisely these activities that are taking place in these days. One step, one of many – I hope it will be marked by the construction of a monument – but we know what is happening in the area of a decent burial in the area of the Hude Cave. I've been in there myself, laying down wreaths, respecting our history, regardless of pain and good memories. I would like to ask you for an explanation because there have been mixed interpretations in public concerning the legal basis. Perhaps it is not known enough that this area concerns two marriages, the older War Cemetery Act and the recently adopted law in the National Assembly, the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries. Let me ask you a question: Under what law are the activities related to the arrangement of the Barbara Graveyard in the Hudi Cave? How is the amount and burial of the victims carried out? I know that you have dealt with this issue a lot in the past and that in some ways it is also your thanks or part of your thanks that we are witnessing today at least in the hope of our younger generation to some national state affair. I know it's gonna hurt a lot of people, but I hope a new period starts in the coming years. Because the younger generation of politicians, whether intimately or publicly, as I am doing today, we want the normalisation of our society, at least in relation to past history. Minister, please answer the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister Anja Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u294	Thank you for your word. Good evening to all present in the Chamber; distinguished Vice-President, Members and Members! Personally, I am glad that we are likely to come to the end of such a question. It is a long story, the second year awaits us, let us hope, to build a foundation stone or to build a monument with the law itself, where we have also arranged in the National Assembly what should be written on the monument. On the other hand, Huda caves as one of the pains that opened in 2008. From that point on, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which has been responsible for this area at all times, has dealt more or less intensively with the issue of the Hude Cave. The dig from the Hude Cave began 26. Seven. 2008, works lasted until March 2009, when 462 human remains were found. Then some of the markings were placed around it, and the wreaths stood up; at the same time, the most appropriate solution was sought during this period. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is in accordance with the provisions of Articles 18 and 19 of the War Cemeteries Act and also with Decision No. 131-40/2012/5, issued 21. 11. In 2012, Barbara's grave in the Hudi Cave entered the Register of War Cemeteries of the Republic of Slovenia. The register is under the jurisdiction of our ministry. Since the Huda Cave is registered in the War Cemetery Register, it remains under the authority of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, irrespective of the adoption of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the crossing of victims adopted last year. What has been very common in the public lately is that all the activities that have been taking place recently due to the adoption of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the crossing of victims and the area transferred from the Ministry of Labour to the Ministry of the Economy are by no means true and would not be to all employees at the Ministry of Labour dealing with this issue. In 2014 and 2015, rehabilitations were carried out in the direction of the mine shaft on the basis of a mining inspection decision. In September 2015, a meeting was held with the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of hidden graves on the subject of further activities in the regulation of the Barbara Graveyard in the Hudi Cave. The meeting agreed that the burial site outside the mine should be approached as soon as possible. Based on expert opinions, the view prevailed that the most appropriate location for the burial of remains in the burial ground in the area of the Dobrova memorial park near Maribor, is in the immediate vicinity of the cemetery and the monument to the victims of postwar beatings. The Ministry also presented information regarding the arrangement of the Barbara Reef War Cemetery in the Hudi Cave at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 24. 3. 2016; then we are 29. 3. 2016 published an invitation to tender for the selection of the most advantageous contractor for the execution of parts of the excavation of the remains from the shaft 1. The construction of parts of the excavation of remains from Box 1 in the area of the Barbara Reef War Cemetery in the Hudi Cave and their burial in the Dobrova Memorial Park near Maribor began in August 2016; the completion of the works is foreseen within seventeen months of the beginning of the works. With the arrangement of Barbara's grave in the Hudi Cave and the proper burial of the victims, a number of coordinations took place between experts of different professions and the active coordination and work of state authorities, the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve the issues of hidden graves, local self-government authorities and other organisations to prepare all the necessary documents. There's been a lot of work done. The start of the remains of the corpses is expected to begin in early October; a joint burial is scheduled for October 27th, which will be an important action in the field of the piette; let us hope that reconciliation is also crucial. We will probably find history difficult to agree on; we have history and the future in common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž German, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u296	Thank you very much. This question seems very important to the reconciliation of the spirit of our people. Not only in society, but also a political map will change considerably in my understanding. I can only remember what happened when we found a way to solve problems with neighbouring Croatia. Of all the parliamentary parties present at the time in Parliament, two have fallen out and are in the past of Slovenian Parliamentarianism. What am I getting into? To the strength of arguments about the future. It will no longer be possible to refer to past pain, pain for the mobilisation of the elective body; but Slovenian policy will have to focus on the future. And a lot of people, one political branch and one political branch won't deal with it. We are in a very important period, as you have said, I think you mentioned the timeline towards the end of the year. Can you answer me in more detail: What awaits us in the coming months, and how will we mark these events? It will be important for us, politicians, how to approach this. If in the past we have separated ourselves on this issue; I hope that in the future we will be shaking our shoulders, who is the one who has made a key contribution to solving the biggest social issue, this is the reconciliation of an emotionally resilient half-lived history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Dr. Anya Digger Dark, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u298	Thank you for the further question. I would like to make it clear that I see this event especially in the spirit of pieta. But reconciliation probably comes from each individual. Politics can make an absolute contribution to this, but I believe that in the end that reconciliation can only come from individuals and that we can deal with history ourselves, take action. There is no way that we can see these events in the light of changes in historical facts. Piet and historical facts have little to do with this. It is important, however, that, as a country, we approach that, in terms of dignity, we allow a decent burial for all. I am pleased that in the coming months we will be able to finish what started in 2008. And also in March 2009, as Secretary of State – never again in a similar situation, and I hope never again – at the opening of Barbara he digs with Mrs Jadranka Kosor stood and placed his wreath and saw the inside of the Hude cave. Now I'll be happy to begin by transferring from Barbara to the Maribor area where the funeral will be. It starts on October 3rd. The funeral ceremony, and the marking of this event is scheduled for October 27th, is coordinated with all the state's top representatives. There is a lot of activity and it is also right not to give vague interpretations to the public, because several employees of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities have been very active and active in this project from the very beginning. Clearly, solutions are only possible together. The Commission’s decision was also crucial, since there was more possibility whether a posthumous museum would be built in the Barbara trench mine and whether the remains would be transferred there. There's been a lot of debate about this. Finally, the Commission took the view that the best transfer would take place because further activities would take place there. That's part of the story. Another important part, which lasts and is parallel, is a monument where we hope that there will be a reconciliation monument on the Congress Square, where the President of the country is also involved. And without his activities in this area, we would not have been so successful. To conclude, reconciliation is likely to depend on us; however, there is little to do with historical facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u300	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Members and others present! In discussions with representatives of the Slovenian minority in Italy, Austria and Hungary, they often expressed concern about the future of the Slovenian language in substitution. That's why I want to know: How do you assess the state of protection, promotion and preservation of Slovenian language in the Slovenian minority in Italy, how in Austria and how in Hungary? How much funding did the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport pay for the protection, promotion and preservation of Slovenian language in the Slovenian minority in Italy, how much for this purpose in the Slovenian minority in Austria and how much in Hungary? What were the content of the funded projects for the Slovenian minority in Italy, what for the Slovenian minority in Austria and what in Hungary? How many children of foreign Slovenes were included in the teaching of Slovenian language in Italy, Austria and what number and how much share in Hungary? How many of these children were involved in schooling in Slovenian, how many in primary schools, how many in secondary schools, and how many other places? How does the Ministry assess the quality of Slovenian knowledge achieved among children of foreign Slovenians in Italy, how in Austria and how in Hungary? Let me just give you a few disturbing facts. In Austria, the network of bilingual schools has suffered contractions due to the reorganization and rationalisation of the school network. Let me mention Libuche and Obirsky. In 2015, people's schools of Radiša, Medjugorje, Šentjur na Zilja, Central Village and Central Trušna were closed. The school year 2016-2017 provides for the closure of schools Žvabek, Vogrče and Rute pri Vrati. The inhabitants of Zvibek persist in objecting to the closure of bilingual human schools in this village. The desire of the Slovenian minority in the Federal Region of Štajerski is also a lesson in Slovenian in human and secondary schools and to ensure an adequate level of protection at the legislative and administrative level. Despite the satisfaction that the Slovenian Music School in Koroška has provided money for salaries and other costs for 2015 and that this school has started operating under the country school system, we cannot be satisfied that the number of pupils in the Slovenian school has to be reduced from 700 to only 350. Therefore, the Slovenian School in Koroška had to abandon teaching some instruments and some students had to go to private schools and also to German music schools. I'd like to ask you for answers and thank you for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u302	Dear President, honourable Members, Members, colleague of the Minister. Urban education is an integral part of the school system of neighbouring countries; we meet it in accordance with bilateral commitments and international standards and other legal bases, including in terms of professional support. The state and the ministry have actively committed themselves to this, for many years now we have been trying to preserve as much as possible, not only what concerns the Slovenian language, but also other activities that I will follow. Let us stress that we have positive criteria for minority education, including financial ones, to give as much attention as possible to minority teaching and to the development of some other activities. Why am I stressing this? Slovenia is funding a minority education according to the number of departments, not the number of pupils; this is also the difference from the other system in Slovenia. As far as funds are concerned and the allocation and distribution of these funds, we are committed, as I have already said, to certain standards; especially where bilingualism is concerned. But the fact is that we are here in a bilateral relationship, that often too, it happens that not only because of us but also because of us, but also because of us. Now, in concrete terms, how's the support going? Since 2013, the Ministry of Education in Italy and Hungary has also linked to ESF projects; not only with integrated resources, but also opens up opportunities and opportunities for cooperation on cohesion sources. Approximately €700,000 is allocated to Slovenian or bilingual education in place, of which €300,000 is spent on Slovenian education in Italy, €200,000 is spent on bilingual education in Austria, €150,000 is spent on bilingual education in Hungary and €50,000 is spent on teaching Slovenian as a minority language in Croatia. In line with bilateral agreements, as well as sectoral legislation, the works and tasks carried out within the Ministry are largely the expression of the traditional work programme. This takes place throughout the year, not only on the school year, but also on other activities related to ESF projects. This includes our institutions, such as the Institute for Education, the Centre for Vocational Education and so on. What is happening as a current and also normal, continuous operation is the education of teaching workers. This is very important, it is a specific traditional seminar based on interstate bilateral agreements, then we conduct professional educational excursions, such as a school of Slovenian language for students, students, teachers, including a local education also in school competitions, in other activities aimed at the school population in Slovenia. We also provide additional logistical support, scholarship at the level of primary, secondary and higher education. These are, for example, visiting students. As already mentioned, we are also trying to raise the quality of national education through certain projects, such as a project with the national community in Italy, Hungary, and various projects, which also relate to the exercise of the competences of teachers and the like. All of this aims to make it easier and also competently empower teachers, teachers, professional colleagues involved. The question was also raised as to the number of children enrolled in educational institutions in recent years. This is about constant, virtually no significant deviations in recent years. In last year's school year, 4,000 500 children were enrolled in foreign education in Italy, including 3,000 600 in kindergartens and elementary schools, 900 in secondary school. Last year, 4,000 children were enrolled in bilingual education in Austria, of which 2 000 were enrolled in kindergartens and primary schools and a thousand 500 were enrolled in secondary schools. There were 260 children in the last school year, including 230 in kindergartens and primary schools and 30 in the secondary school system. Of course, we can provide even more detailed explanations as to the actual activities carried out primarily in the categories of cooperation already mentioned. I would also like to highlight the assessment of the knowledge of Slovenian language in foreign schools, which we, as a ministry, do not even have the authority to do. Of course, we encourage the transfer of quality knowledge also through the help of all our institutions, which I have already listed, to be kept up-to-date and systematic. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u303	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to complete the answer requested.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u304	Thank you very much. However, the questions are extensive. Perhaps this is also the reason that the answer is quite correct. But still, from what you've said, it means that if we just look at the financial resources, it's nothing like we could call it. As a result, it is not surprising that Slovenian language is disappearing among young people in use. Warnings about this also come to your Ministry by the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education; for example, if you read the report of the advisor mag. Valerije Perger on the catastrophic quality of Slovenian teaching at Monoster High School. They have a teacher who has virtually very poor knowledge of Slovenian language. Students who have been studying Slovenian for four years are practically ignorant of the basics of the Slovenian language, so that they can say at least one sentence. The situation is catastrophic, and we can say that we can be concerned about the state of Slovenian in Use. My concerns were expressed by the competent Hungarian minister and also by the Hungarian ambassador, which of course means that we should be the first to be concerned about what they are doing. In addition, we should pay much more attention to the preservation of Slovenian between minorities in Italy. Madam Minister, this is your legally defined obligation concerning the protection, development and preservation of the Slovenian language at home and also in place. For example, read the resolution on language policy. What will you do, Madam Minister, to improve the state of protection, preservation and development of the Slovenian language in place? And if you fail to answer, I will ask for a written answer to your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u305	Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u306	We are well aware of the use and development of the Slovenian language, and we have also dedicated some of the so-called ESF funds to integrated sources, as I mentioned earlier. In particular, to raise the language competences of teaching workers in minority languages, because we believe that this is a very important approach to preserving and developing the use of the Slovenian language. These projects were something, in different ways they were carried out in different minority parts. It is true, however, that the whole concern for Slovenian is something we have been closely following for some time. The fact is also that we are in contact not only with the ambassador, but also with the general public mentioned earlier in order to encourage children to learn and use the Slovenian language through other activities. I mentioned a number of activities earlier, such as summer schools, Slovenian language schools, teacher training and so on. It is necessary to arouse interest, interest, and also know how to present a language in an interesting way, to children in a kind way and at the same time to empower teachers. These projects were also planned in these two directions. We are also trying to help to keep those activities, which have also left the highest quality mark, within new cohesion. As far as commitments are concerned, they remain the same; as far as compliance standards are concerned, as well as all bilateral and other international standards to be met here. We are also happy to respond in more detail in writing, because it is also a series of individual activities that are taking place; they depend on people and everyone who have to and try to help us use the Slovenian language not only because of the resolutions, but because of the life of this language, it preserves it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The last question before us is the question before us. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Dr Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. We have reached the end of the questions sent, and we may also come to the end of the abolition of the return on social benefits. We have considered this three times in this National Assembly. Finally, we proposed in July that returnability should be set aside in the Succession Act, which is the umbrella law with this provision. This would eliminate the recovery of all benefits, not only a protective allowance; but also social assistance, funeral expenses, household allowances and family assistants. Anja Kopač Dark objected to our proposal by the United Left. Last week, however, the Minister announced or proposed a partial removal of the return. By the way, let me say that this return to the Social Security Benefits Act was actually introduced by the Pahor government, in which the current Minister of Social Affairs was the Secretary of State. What is interesting about this point is that this proposal was not published on the Ministry's website, but on the Social Democrats' website. That's why I'm interested in the following things: Is this an official proposal from the Ministry; is it not an official proposal from the Social Democrats; is this another one in the series of empty pianist moves by the Social Democrats? Since the Act of Succession falls under the jurisdiction of the judiciary, I am interested in: Have you in any way opposed the government novel of the Succession Law, which for the first time sets out the obligation to pay back funeral expenses? Does it seem fair to you that the recipient of social assistance who has an apartment in Ljubljana should return social assistance; someone who lives in a larger apartment in a smaller town does not? This is because in this proposal the value of an apartment is found as a criterion, while prices of similar dwellings vary according to where they are located. Does it seem fair to you to eliminate the refund of a protective allowance, while citizens will still have to pay back household supplies, funeral expenses and the like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u310	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Your Honour, Mr. Miha Kordish! If we listened carefully to the press conference, we would get most of this information. Today, the law is in public debate and is probably already available on the website of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. I believe you will examine it carefully and then you will have different questions about housing, value, and others. It is important, however, for the general public to answer some questions so that there will be no different interpretations resulting from the reading or hearing of individual reports; with the aim of defusing and attempting to demonstrate important decisions that will be the subject of coalition coordination and also of the wider Government of the Republic of Slovenia, rather than a competition and attack on your side. The proposal of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which is in line with the coalition contract of this Government, is enshrined consciously in the coalition contract of this Government. Based on the analyses and facts that have fueled this, we are looking for the best possible solution. The key changes are that monetary social assistance and a protective allowance change the way in which assets are considered as a condition for the granting of monetary social assistance and a protective allowance. This is the first very important change since before this it was in a way to take account of the appropriate size of the apartment and then over this appropriate size it is calculated how much this value can be. And the fact is that some rarely in the system also had the right to cash social assistance and a property allowance – you will not believe – at the end of Styria worth half a million euros. This does not seem fair to us, and so we looked at the logic of this, because most Slovenians, 85% owned real estate and 85% owned real estate, so there are no leases to find any solutions for older people who are mostly owners. We've looked at the value of this. The average value of real estate – and the figure 120 000 is not just like that, but it is on the average market value in Ljubljana; elsewhere it is significantly lower. Exposing and saying that everyone will be over in Ljubljana is, of course, purely misleading and speaking in mind. We were looking for a value that would cover the majority, the average value of the property, and taking these facts into account. Income as a condition of eligibility does not change; however, the fact that you can own a property where you stay and have a permanent residence is very important, up to the value of €120,000. Of course, we are open to public debate, if we find a better condition, whatever the value, of course, is a matter of agreement. On the basis of Gurs' data and also on statistics in the system of recipients of the protective allowance and financial social assistance, we have reached this solution. Of course, it's open. And the other important thing is the Institute of Recording. We looked at how many records there were, how much of this country got back. Because of the fact that we cannot actively and within one month's time give opportunities, people who expose their desire to have the property available freely, we have also assured them from the point of view of sales, we have decided that, in terms of encouraging the activity, that the recipients activate their assets and thus solve their situation, it is better to withdraw the labels as an institute; that is why we have done so. On the other hand, we have decided, because from the point of view of social policy, it is a very important feeling, because most people do not in any way return money social assistance and social security aid, and this is important for the sense of justice of the social state, we have decided to withdraw that these people, who have low incomes and property of up to €120,000, are returning money social assistance and a security allowance. What you're saying is over 120,000, we've only given as a discretion that social workers can, under very limited conditions in that case, still give someone the right to financial social assistance or a protective allowance that is intended for the most vulnerable. Let's not forget, it's logic, one who doesn't have wealth and income gets this social assistance. We have set these criteria, there will be a matter of discussion in the coalition and in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u311	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to request a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask for an answer, and I'm gonna go straight ahead. Apparently, this is my first question, the combination of both. On the one hand, it is clearly an official proposal from the Ministry and on the other hand, a pianist move by the SD, because we cannot explain here that things are on the Ministry's side. And I don't believe such publications until I get them in my hands as a Member. And clearly, these have not yet come into my hands if the procedure has recently been requested. I raised a question that, of course, is rhetorical — if in any way you opposed the government’s amendment to the Succession Act, which for the first time sets the obligation to pay back the cost of a funeral. Why is that important? Because, in the United Left, we are committed to eliminating the returnability in full, for any transfer, but not just for a security allowance or partly for financial social assistance and so on. Okay, as far as those apartments are concerned, you gave some kind of answer. Then there is the refund of household supplies, funeral expenses, and the like. Obviously, we will have to wait a little longer for all of this to be brought to an end; or how?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u314	Thank you for your word. On the Ministry's website, I checked to see if a proposal for a law on social security benefits had been published. You have it all, so you can look at it and see for yourself in detail. With regard to the Succession Act, it should be pointed out that this arrangement for recovery was enshrined in the Heritage Act 1976. It has already been judged several times by the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court has stated that the State has the right to claim compensation if the recipients have the means by which they can recover; because social assistance is the instrument of the State which gives the most to the most vulnerable because they are indeed at risk and do not have other resources. If we look at the arrangements in other European countries, we have now done a comprehensive analysis, most of the assets are taken into account; the value of the property is also determined, and the returns are also defined. This is in most European countries. As regards this year's amendments to the Succession Act, they have been aligned with us, but they have mainly gone in the direction that sectoral laws can arrange differently; and that is exactly what they are. The Social Security Benefits Act is regulated in a different way as far as the benefits of those who are materially at risk are concerned. However, it is also an important amendment to the Succession Act, it is precisely stated that, with regard to the lower value of real estates – also provided for in this Act – it already provided for – to determine which ones they are and to exempt them from reimbursements, which was also in line with the agreement. We're just clarifying things more with this law. However, the Succession Act is subject to referendum decisions and there is no debate in the National Assembly. This law will also have to wait for decisions to be made because things are interconnected. And there are also some other proposals where legislative or referendum procedures make decisions. However, there is a public debate, Mr Miha Kordiš, you are certainly welcome to comment on the level or other arrangements in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-09-19-SDZ7-Redna-22.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 22 September 2016, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. Colleagues and colleagues, I also interrupt the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. I wish everyone a good evening! Goodbye.
