ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Vesna Vervega by 12 noon, Mrs Erika Dekleva, Mrs Irena Kotnik, Mrs Vojka Šergan by 17:00, Mrs Marija Bačič, Dr Matthew T. Vatovec, Mr Matjaž Han from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m., Mr Jože Tanko from 2 p.m. to 12 p.m., Mr Marjan Dolinšek from 14:00 and Mr Janko Weber from 11 a.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of a law on the construction of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia in the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Ljub Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u2	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! To prepare the Transport Infrastructure Act in the Republic of Slovenia, we were led by the following basic reasons: the financial impact of the financial perspective 2007-2013 on investment in transport infrastructure ended at the end of last year, at the end of 2015. The new financial perspective 2014-2020 is already under way. However, for transport investment projects, there is still no drawback of these funds. An even greater decline in the construction sector is expected this year and in the coming year. Slovenia, at the annual level of the European Union, has seen a 23.4% decline in the construction sector and is the last of all members of the European Union. We know that the European average growth in construction is 4.4%. This is a clear and visual indicator that it is important to do something in Slovenia on this segment. And one of the reasons is that one year ago the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia was completed, which is a good, professional basis for further work in the transport field. With this law, we want to achieve the following strategic objectives: to maintain our country's strategic position in international transport flows; to improve the connectivity of individual areas such as Koroška and Bela Krajina; to speed up the reconstruction of rail and road infrastructure in order to achieve international standards and environmental objectives; to ensure the conditions for drawing on European funds; to ensure a clear priority set of road and rail infrastructure transport projects. To sum up, the most strategic, important projects, of course summarised in the Transport Development Strategy; to list only some of the most important: railway infrastructure on the fifth corridor, including the new route of Divac-Koper, the Maribor-Šentilj railway connection with the border with the Republic of Austria, railway infrastructure on the 10th corridor and a very important railway centre around Ljubljana with the so-called Tivolski arch and the reconstruction of the Ljubljana passenger station, the construction of the new pipeline of the Karavanka motorway, the new road connection of Koroška to the existing highway Ljubljana-Celje, this is the northern part of the third development axis, the new road connection of the White Region to the existing motorway at the New Town, this is the southern part of the third development axis. And the central part of the third development axis from the highway from Ljubljana to Celje to the motorway Ljubljana–Novo mesto. Then a fast road from Jagodje to the border with the Republic of Croatia with a link to the highway in Istria. Due to the comprehensive presentation, some sections already in operation are also included in the law – the completion of the railway line to Kočev and the completion of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway with the border with the Republic of Croatia. The law is based exclusively on the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the Government on 29 July last year. The deadlines for completion and placing on the market shall be until 2023 in cases where the projects are already placed in space or building permits have been obtained; or by 2030, where the spatial acts for individual sections have not yet been adopted. The law also lays down measures to accelerate the adoption of spatial plans or building permits.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Slovenia has long been faced with the fact that there is no adequate system of integrated transport and transport infrastructure development planning. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at its 29th meeting in July last year, adopted the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, which for the first time deals specifically with this transport system. However, the guidance and guidance provided by the strategy for the preparation of concrete projects will be taken into account in the national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which we are preparing at the Ministry of Infrastructure. The national programme is a document that represents a transition between the general measures identified by the strategy and specific activities that will then be prepared and implemented. At the same time as the adoption of the strategy by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also ordered the preparation of an operational plan for the implementation of the strategy, at the latest within one year of the adoption of the strategy, which means that the deadline expires in July of this year. The operational plan will consist of concrete projects for the implementation of a strategy that will partially or fully coincide with projects already planned in existing national programmes adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this fact, this national programme should be adopted in the National Assembly before the adoption of the operational plan, replacing all existing national transport programmes, such as the Resolution on the National Roadbuilding Programme and the National Programme for the Development of Slovenian Railway Infrastructure. As already mentioned, an operational plan to define a six-year period is envisaged for more concrete implementation of these individual measures. We are also preparing this operational plan at our ministry on the basis of proposals made by individual operators of these transport infrastructures; it is said that road, rail, aviation, maritime infrastructure operators. The operational plan will be adopted by the Government and will also be renewed and revised every year for an ongoing period of six years, i.e. a rough six-year period. It is also envisaged that the Ministry of Infrastructure will report regularly to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the results of the implementation of the national programme and on the objectives achieved. It is clear from the above that activities to establish a comprehensive development planning system in the field of transport and transport infrastructure are in progress. We expect these activities to be completed this year, and therefore there is no fear in fact that projects in the field of modernisation and construction of transport infrastructure that are strategically important for the country will not be carried out within the planned deadlines. Any change in the Transport Development Strategy of the work already under way would delay operational work on strategically important projects and in some way confuse the concept of work in this area. In view of the work done so far and the planned plan for setting priority or strategic projects with the active role of all stakeholders — infrastructure managers, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Government and the National Assembly — we believe that there is no need to adopt a specific law at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, honourable speakers, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! Today we will consider the Law on the Construction of Transport Infrastructure and also the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. First, it must be assessed that both laws are so connected that in some ways the position of one is impossible to say without the other because it is a meaningful whole. They are talking about a list of all the most important road investments in the Republic of Slovenia, which, as the Minister of Infrastructure said, is already defined by the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. In a way, it is a very nice move where Members and Members of Parliament, too, can be set before people through a proactive step towards the construction and implementation of these projects, which we all agree are crucial for the further development of the Republic of Slovenia. A step forward will be taken with the next proposal, which will be addressed at the next point, where we will also provide funds in accordance with the usual protocols for these operations; of course, from the integrated budget. Let's redistribute, and the problem is solved. Except at a point where we don't know how we're going to cover the revenue shortfall, whether we're going to cut social transfers, scholarships, we're going to cut investment in health or somewhere else. We can also make extra money, no problem, maybe that's the point. Mr Šircelj will probably then convene a meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances immediately, where he will ask us how we can be indebted when we have adopted a fiscal rule. Together, both laws are very well-known and have been seen several times by the proposer in this National Assembly – they are a good collection of laws that do not actually bring about anything that we would not already have with existing legislation, and nothing adds to the possibility of implementing these infrastructure projects except today's five hours of the meeting. To start with key infrastructure projects in road infrastructure, such as the third development axis, all the tools are in hands today, for example, Dars. The National Assembly can provide him with an adequate guarantee when the Ministry of Environment and Space finishes by placing him in the room, is a project, as the conversational language is called, ready to go. As has already been said, no laws need to be further amended; especially when we provide the funds simply by taking them; and if we leave the manca to the ruling coalition because the next step is the potential debt or introduction of the infrastructure centre – a much less attractive and attractive move. Since it is in some way a list of wishes without a concrete possibility of implementation or at least a real basis for this to be carried out as a whole, we will not support the Social Democrats or the first or second proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u7	The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good morning, everyone! The law gives a good indication of the catastrophic state of transport infrastructure in Slovenia. Over the past two decades, we have invested mainly in the construction of the highway cross. The motorway cross was built in perseverance, slowly, there was a lot of machination by construction companies, the contracts were changing, the annexes were added, and the prices for the works were eventually relatively high, not to say too high. Nevertheless, the highway cross is now largely finished, except in our Styrian region. In addition, the development of rail infrastructure and regional-local road infrastructure was neglected. All of this has had a very negative impact on the development of public passenger transport and, at the same time, has stimulated the growth of freight traffic on motorways rather than mainly on railways. As a result, highways are becoming increasingly burdened and in worse shape today. In the United Left, we agree on priority projects for the development of transport infrastructure, and the second track of Divaca-Koper is certainly first. The amount of Luke Koper loading is on the limit of capacity, because we know that if the second track is not built soon – and as it all appears, it will not – we can expect a halt to the growth of the port or [[or]] and the further immeasurable increase in the burden of Slovenian motorways with freight traffic. In this regard, it is necessary to build the Tivolski arch in Ljubljana, to improve the route to Shentilje and could also include, as the proposaler stated. The development of transport infrastructure is vital because of the increase in mobility of the population and the increase in the share of public transport travel, which must be affordable and efficient, which is not now or is almost absent from regional urban centres if we take the whole matter seriously. However, we do not believe that the proposal for a law on the development of transport infrastructure itself will make a significant contribution. Why? The implementation of these projects in the law is unfortunately more than a matter of good will for every government. Even if the law had been adopted, we doubt its implementation, because it is known that in Slovenia, the preparation of various programmes, implementation plans, reports, worlds and similar delays, although the deadlines are legally established. There are usually no delays. The implementation of the law is linked to the simultaneous adoption of the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure, which will be the second item at today's meeting. The adoption of the latter would have unforeseeable implications for the state budget when several hundred million euros from the integrated budget were earmarked for the development of transport infrastructure. While the purpose of spending this money is good, the problem is where this money, which is now part of the integrated budget, is taken. The Law on the Construction of Transport Infrastructure of the Republic of Slovenia, despite a good analysis of the existing situation, does not represent much more than a list of wishes – I think the desire of all of us, but unfortunately still only a list. We will therefore abstain from voting on the appropriateness of the law for further consideration in the United Left. However, we expect the opening of a serious parliamentary debate not only on transport infrastructure regional development but also on the central and long-term financing of this development. The National Assembly must adopt binding decisions, since after 20 years of study and superficial and superficial speaking, this is our primary duty. And in doing so, the United Left will be as creatively involved as ever so that these children who are up here will be able to drive by quality public transport. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The state of Slovenian road and rail infrastructure is in extremely poor condition. Unfortunately, the situation of transport infrastructure seems to be getting worse. The construction of road and rail infrastructure, called transport infrastructure, is not a project of likeness, but is a necessity and need of this country. In this case, the government remains passive and offers no solutions. Christian Democrats fear that the ruling coalition is not aware of the dimension of the importance of regulated transport infrastructure. facilitating transport and mobility is a key condition for the normal functioning of the country. They create an environment for the existence and development of the entire Slovenian economy. In addition, transport routes are also a condition for regional integration and inclusion. In the face of increasing tax burdens in the Republic of Slovenia, citizens rightly expect not only to maintain but also to improve the conditions on the roads on which they drive each day, as well as railways, where many are less frequent due to the poor and resulting longer transport time. Unregulated roads bring danger to transport, increase transport time, travel time, cause negative effects on transport assets and generate a number of additional costs. By ignoring investment in transport infrastructure, Slovenia's competitiveness is declining. A truly effective transport link could make better use of the smallness of our country. Investment in infrastructure, of course, brings costs. However, abandoning long-term investment increases these costs even more and makes normalisation more difficult in the future. The proposed law is particularly welcome in terms of promoting infrastructure modernisation activities. Christian Democrats support the establishment of concrete deadlines for concrete projects, which brings about a proposal for a law. We need an operational plan to implement individual projects in the form of a transport development programme immediately. Accordingly, an implementation plan for the modernisation and construction of infrastructure should be adopted as soon as possible. In Novi Slovenija we call on the government to remember the importance of transport connectivity for the Slovenian economy and Slovenian citizens despite the currently difficult fiscal situation. Christian Democrats support the debate on how to encourage the development of transport connectivity in Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we will therefore support the proposal of the Law on the Construction of Transport Infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u12	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The accession to today's session is like some of the meetings already held in this National Assembly, due to the reactive action of the government and inactiveness. Topics relevant to Slovenia are presented by opposition parties. And that's why I'm talking about it today. When we look at what is happening in Europe, it is crucial that Europe is based on preparing answers in advance. What are the basic themes for the future? If we look at the analysis of European documents, we see that the key is infrastructure, the key is transport and the key is information technology. These are the points on which the future of Europe is being built and on which the economic strategy is being built and for the benefit of the people in these countries. Why are we here? We are witnessing that the opposition is proposing some solutions and the government is late again. We see that the Minister has previously presented that the programme will be adopted by Wednesday 2016; it is said that we are already on the table in the month when we should have it all on the table; we are not yet discussing this by the government. It is about talking about multimodal corridors and core networks in Europe, where Slovenia is also part of this developed Europe. The key to everything in Slovenia is Luka Koper, all of these approaches. We have had sessions on the subject of the second track, the problems of the second track and the urgency of this second track. Again, the opposition proposed solutions and proposed extraordinary meetings of the committees and extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. We must put Luca Koper at the heart of this problem and solve it. If we don't build another track, then there won't be a solution. There are many approaches and strategic positions of Slovenia. We know that we are on one side of this important corridor from Spain to Hungary and the other from Kopra to the Baltic States. That's just part of it. We can talk about the amber path, we can talk about other corridors. Here, neighbouring countries are fast ahead of us because they know what the strategy of Europe is, that the strategy is these corridors and that the development of countries is important from infrastructure. How to secure funding, we will talk about this at the next point; but everyone knows that this funding is important because of the multiplier effects. What can the law expose? The law raises those key and fundamental questions that we need to answer. The point is, first of all, road traffic. Road traffic at regional level is in very poor shape. We invested money in motorways, but we did not invest it in regional development and regional roads. However, we know that public transport on regional roads is falling, that there is no money for repairing these roads, that Slovenia is very fragmented and that this is the key to the development of the regions. The other part is railway infrastructure, we are talking about the second track again, and we don't have it yet. What about the other corridors? You too need to be reinvigorated. If this main cross falls, what about the transport links that must then bear the core of transport? What about air traffic? On the one hand, we put the Ljubljana airport in privatisation; the Maribor airport is not developing. What's even bigger is the Portoro airport. The key to the development of tourism, as we have already talked about, but we do not raise enough funds to extend the route in Portorož 200 meters, which would have a significant impact on the development of tourism. It's just a few segments that I need to point out. Who is responsible for this situation? Those companies that own 100 percent of the country. We're talking about Dars, we're talking about DRSI, we're talking about Slovenian railways in the part that's responsible for infrastructure. Behind all this is the State-owned Infrastructure Development Company; and here is the key. I think we need to talk about this. These are the culprits for the state in which we are; that the railway is such as not building another track, that we do not have developed local road infrastructure and that airports are in the same condition as they are. If I conclude, the crisis we are in can be an opportunity; but the government must take a constructive and speedy approach to solving these problems with its policies and activities. Privatisation or any other form here is not the answer and is not the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The drafter of the Law on the Construction of Transport Infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, as the objective of the proposal, lists the acceleration of modernisation and construction of railway and road infrastructure and lists the railway and road infrastructure whose modernisation and new construction are a priority of national importance. With today's state of transport infrastructure, particularly the poor state of state roads and railways and unbuilt road and rail connections, we are aware in the Modern Centre Party that the need for mobility of people and goods is increasing in today's globalisation and development; therefore, transport and infrastructure policy must also be properly established to achieve long-term economic growth and development of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact that the area of State transport infrastructure has been neglected for years cannot be deleted, but we can work together to make it different in advance; and while aware of the macroeconomic importance of transport and at the same time the macroeconomic constraints of state investment in infrastructure, we are looking for appropriate solutions. In addition, I would like to point out that the programme commitments of the Modern Centre Parties and the coalition agreement are committed to increasing the efficiency of infrastructure management and related investments. We have committed ourselves to drawing up development plans in the field of transport infrastructure, and today we can say that we have managed to fulfil this commitment in an important part already. Last July, the government also adopted the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia, which includes road, rail, air and water transport. This lays the groundwork for the establishment of an appropriate system of integrated transport development planning. The strategy is logically followed by a national transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which represents a transition between the overall strategy measures to concrete activities in preparation and implementation. The Ministry of Infrastructure is committed, following the adoption of the strategy, to draw up within one year an operational implementation plan consisting of concrete projects for the implementation of the strategy and will be in line with projects already planned in the existing national programmes. From all of this we can conclude that the adoption of the new law under consideration at this point would constitute an intervention in the already initiated activities in the field of transport infrastructure, and therefore we assess that the proposal for a law on the construction of transport infrastructure in the proposed form is not suitable for further consideration. The law proposed by the applicant is somehow also bound by the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. In this regard, we would like to point out that the applicant has not clearly explained the reasons for the transfer of funds from other budgetary users to infrastructure. We are aware of the fact that many budget users are still in short supply with regard to the resources they wish for the planned development. In this part, the proposer offers absolutely nothing but the relocation of certain funds from other users, which means that by adopting such two laws as are proposed today, new fronts would be opened. As has already been said, we cannot support the Modern Centre of the Party for the reasons described in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u15	Mr Daniel Krivec, Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the minister with the team, nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues as well! Your Honor! The fact is that quality infrastructure, in particular transport infrastructure, is essential for the smooth development of the entire territory of Slovenia. From a development perspective, transport infrastructure enables mobility of the population and also encourages the development of economic activities. All the references of the National Assembly and all governments have to deal with this issue. In the past, these problems have been solved more or less successfully, to some extent in the field of highways, less successful in the field of railways, we can say that they have failed in the field of state roads; but there are virtually no concrete solutions in the field of public transport, except in larger cities. In the field of transport infrastructure, the Republic of Slovenia faces the fact that it does not have an adequate system of comprehensive planning for transport development and transport infrastructure. We Members are constantly under the pressure of the electoral environment to improve the situation in this area. This is also the subject of debates on the home committees, as well as a number of parliamentary questions on this subject at virtually every meeting of the National Assembly. But the facts are the following at this point. The financial impact of the financial perspective 2007-2013 on investment in transport infrastructure ended at the national and local level at the end of 2015. Although the financial perspective 2014-2020 has been operational for two years, Slovenia has so far not been able to draw on much funding for projects in the field of investment in transport or transport infrastructure. This year and next year, it is therefore expected that there will be a decline in the construction sector of infrastructure, as I mentioned, both locally and nationally, which investment in the private sector will not be able to compensate. As early as 2012, the Government, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Transport, decided to draw up a national programme for the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia in order to be ready in time for a new financial perspective 2014-2020 and to ensure a planned investment in transport infrastructure in the coming years. The programme is expected to be adopted by the end of 2013. As we know, the government adopted the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia on 29 July 2015, which is the basis for an operational transport development programme. If we are to prevent negative trends in economic growth in the future and if we are to prevent Slovenia from leaving the international transport corridors, action is necessary. In view of the above findings, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has also incorporated into the legal procedure the Transport Infrastructure Construction Act in the Republic of Slovenia. The strategy adopted by the Government on 29 July 2015 should be followed by an operational plan to provide a basis for individual projects in the field of transport infrastructure development and transport in the Republic of Slovenia. The adoption of these documents is much to be undertaken and the operational implementation of individual strategic projects is moving away. Therefore, the only way to accelerate the adoption of the law is through the strategy of the exposed strategic projects in the area of transport infrastructure development and a timeframe for their completion, as well as resources. Since the new financial perspective 2014-2020 for transport infrastructure, in particular in the rail network, provides for less than €400 million of funding, additional resources provided by this law provide for the smooth progress of modernisation and the construction of new transport infrastructure. If we look at the Slovenian rail network, which has slightly more than 800 kilometres of single and slightly over 300 kilometres of double-track lines, the single lines do not allow for normal permeability; they are also on a network that is included in the European corridors, which is unacceptable. Maintenance is difficult as the compartment has to be completely closed and some sections of the axle loads do not allow the carriage of larger loads, thus the bottlenecks are also on the network that are in the corridors. Slovenian railways on these sections cannot drive even with newer and more efficient locomotives, which is also an operational obstacle. Let's just remember the complications of transporting the cargo from the port of Koper. Another major problem is on Slovenian railways – less than half of railway lines are electrified. The electric tractor is also up to four times cheaper than diesel. On Slovenian railways, 3 kilovolts of direct voltage is used on the power grid. One-way voltage in energy networks, to put it mildly, is not the most appropriate, because it is difficult to transform, it causes major decreases in tension and thus large electrical losses. It requires stronger guides and does not allow efficient return of energy to the network. All other European countries use a variable voltage of 25 kilovolts. More and more modern rails and high-speed trains are being built for 25 kilovolts, and the transition to 25 kilovolts must be ensured in all upgrades and new constructions of the rail network. All purchases in Slovenian railways are also conditioned by this supply voltage, representing at least 30-40 % higher costs in purchases. In order to maintain the strategic position in the transport flows of trans-European networks, the Republic of Slovenia must speed up modernisation and new building on individual transport infrastructure elements. In particular, it must meet the conditions regarding the technical characteristics of the railway on the so-called fifth corridor, build a new line of Divac-Koper, much of which we talked about, the missing section of the road connection Drazenci-Gruškovje, the border with the Republic of Croatia, which is already in construction, and the missing link in the coastal area to the border with the Republic of Croatia, where a decision on the continuation of construction after two or one route should be taken. Better internal road and rail connections with individual regions should be ensured, and more logistical opportunities for major transport axes should be used in parallel. Since resources for all projects are not sufficient, it is necessary to set priorities immediately and to accelerate their implementation activities; this is what makes this law possible. The long-term infrastructure also means high costs and a lot of congestion because it causes delays and reduces the competitiveness of rail transport; we can remember the complications with Luka Koper again. Slovenia has a 21st rail infrastructure quality index among the Member States of the European Union. Only Bulgaria, Poland, Greece, Croatia and Romania are behind us. In the development of state roads, the country has favoured the construction of motorways on the trans-European road network and the construction of fast roads over the past two decades. The remaining network of main and regional state roads has, in particular, been maintained and maintained. As a result, the lower permeability compartments were largely eliminated with the aim of increasing the flexibility and safety of transport. However, this development of state road infrastructure has enabled the rapid development of areas along the highway crossing, while the commitment and accessibility of the remaining areas to the motorway system has not improved. The overall situation of the existing network of state roads has even deteriorated during this period and transport security has also been deteriorating in the last period. The reasons for such a situation can be found among various factors. It has indeed increased the number of registered vehicles in Slovenia. Freight traffic is much more exhausting to the road structure, and we are constantly getting worse elementary events – from floods to other unforeseen events. Poor roads represent a limiting factor in coherent regional development. These areas, due to poor accessibility and thus higher transport costs, are becoming uncompetitive, even if they have other, to develop the necessary factors — cheaper land, possibly skilled labour and other advantages. In addition to the priority given to us by the strategic transport position in the European area, new missing links, such as the third development axis, should be built within the framework of priorities in the area of modernisation and the new building of the state road network, and existing links that do not allow for normal traffic flow should be modernised. The aim of the law is to accelerate the modernisation and construction of this infrastructure, which is of strategic importance for the Republic of Slovenia, and transport infrastructures, which will ensure the proper transport connectivity of individual regions and also pursue environmental objectives. If we do not establish an operational plan for these projects, which will be monitored by the National Assembly, there is a great danger that the implementation will be carried out for several years or decades. In such a case, Slovenia will bypass traffic flows. Many previous opinions spoke of the need for marriage and the need to resolve matters in some way. However, if we observe how the regulation and resolution of the acute problems we experience on the watercourses are going on, you will probably eventually agree that sometimes some things need to be more firmly committed by law, so that they can be resolved at the end. The law follows the principles of cost-effectiveness in the use of budgetary resources, transparency, responsible use of public funds and stability and the long-term financing of the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. The law sets out a set of priority projects in the field of railways and roads, to mention only the most important – railway infrastructure on the fifth corridor, including the Divača-Koper line. The law is based on the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the Government on 29 July last year. On this basis, the Government shall adopt a transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia within two months of the law and forward it to the National Assembly for adoption. This is an operational plan for the implementation of individual projects by area of transport or transport infrastructure. We have not seen this in the National Assembly; nor has it been announced that it is coming. Within one month of the adoption of the Transport Development Programme, the Government shall adopt an implementation plan on a proposal from the Ministry responsible for transport. The deadlines for completion and placing on the market are in 2023 in cases where projects are already placed in the premises or building permits are obtained. In cases where this is not ensured, it shall be extended to 2030 when the spatial acts for individual sections have not yet been adopted. The law also lays down measures to accelerate the adoption of spatial plans or building permits and requires the Government to propose amendments to legislation aimed at optimising these procedures. The indicative assessment of the financial resources needed for the implementation of this law is EUR 500 million per year. The law also lays down the means of implementation, which, for the first time, are the European Funds and the European Budget, the financial resources allocated by Dars d. d., for the modernisation and new construction of the motorway network, the bonds for investment in the modernisation and development of transport infrastructure, the earmarking of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure and public-private partnerships. In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the adopted programme, the Government shall report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the end of March of each calendar year at the latest. Let me stress once again some of the most important points we want to adopt by this law. Firstly, maintaining our country's strategic position in international transport flows. Secondly, better integration of individual areas, such as Koroška, White landscapes, Posoča and other areas. Thirdly, accelerated reform of rail and road infrastructure in order to achieve international standards as well as environmental requirements. Fourthly, ensure the conditions for drawing on European funds. Fifthly, ensuring a stable investment potential in the coming years, which will prevent major ups and downs in the field of state investment in transport infrastructure and affect the growth of gross domestic product in the construction sector, through multiple effects in all other sectors. Sirs, it is a matter of considering the law in the first reading, so I expect you to support the law and thus give us the opportunity to complete it further and improve it, because we are all aware of the seriousness of the issue, as you all prove through discussions on individual home committees and through the questions you are asking in the same national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on its behalf Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. A respected director with a coworker, a respected colleague and colleague! Let me begin with the position of the Desus Group with amazement at the fact that, on behalf of the rapporteurs, he presented to the press the former Minister of Infrastructure, Cernač, who did not support the construction of the second track during his ministry. This project now ranks as an essential or even a priority transport project. I will continue to point out that the applicant is deceiving the consequences that this law would have for the state budget if adopted. The proposal foresees a shift of integral resources to the target, which means that, as a result, the integral resources will be reduced. The applicant does not specify how the deduction will be compensated and which user would consequently be reduced in terms of integral resources. It is also not logical for us to include the resources of Darsa, which it itself provides, and to make investments on its own behalf and on its own account. In addition to the list of priority investments, it would be expected that the proposer will also set up their institution and deadlines for implementation, thus defining only a list of priority investments, a general deadline by the end of 2023 and 2030 and a general resource for financing investments. However, I must point out that the set of investments envisaged is not segmented and the applicant does not take into account the fact that future investments relating to Dars must not be jeopardised financially; this means that projects must be economically justified, which we cannot provide for all projects listed at the moment. The Ministry of Environment and Space is imposing a legislative correction in order to ensure faster placement in space; it does not specify what this should be. The Ministry of Infrastructure is charged with preparing unspecified operational implementation plans by means of this proposal. We must recall, however, that the transport development strategy has already been adopted and that the Ministry of Infrastructure is also preparing an operational plan to implement the strategy that will be revised every year. We therefore feel that the proposed law is not necessary. We are also disturbed by the provision of Article 5 which states that investments are carried out as works of public benefit. This can't possibly be Dars, according to our assessment. We will not support the proposal for a law on the construction of transport infrastructure because of all the said Members and Members of the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Franc Ly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. It is nice that we are discussing infrastructure; I do not know whether it is creative to discuss it this way. Here's what I'm gonna do. How did we get the bank hole, and how much money did that bank hole cost us?Oh, my God! In 2004, the so-called right came into power, wanted a little bit along the party line to sit on the economy, so-called red directors got a little scared and then something happened to us that we call tycoon privatisation. The chairman looks at me a little bit surprised. And then we became test subjects for stress tests. Do you now imagine how much infrastructure would be built with these billions! Oh, and then the current president of the country jumped on a train for three years and jumped off a train and didn't ride a train. Then he flew back into Janša's power, and the construction sector spread in between; but now we have this kind of proposal, which is twofold in this light. But if we were to behave economically at that time, this money could go for the infrastructure and some creature from Koroška would remember going to Isola to the sea, in the meantime we might stop at grandchildren in Ljubljana or Maribor; and all of this would be done according to the gabaritas of Slovenia in about three hours. We're where we are now. In 2012, I published with my colleague Drago Kos, a monograph to think about mobility, in English. I see I'm going to have to bring it to the National Assembly and split it up, because I think we need to think about this first. Intermodality should be reconsidered. We're just talking a little bit about the railroad, a little bit about the highways. Mrs Murglov moves her head, and sometimes I move my head with some legal goblins. Are we a naval nation?Oh, my God! We're basically "like" and the inspectorate has four people there, and he's down by half. What happened to Plovdiv, we know. I would like to have a debate on regional implementation mobility policies. And speaking of regions, the number of regions is slightly smaller than the number of bishops and archdioceses in Slovenia. We're talking about construction, we're going to start construction. If I listen to this debate by the proposer, I get the feeling that someone from abroad has told them, let's start it now. We're the building industry, who's going to build this thing, which you kind of want to do. For one thing, self-centredness – to consider intermodality beyond self-centredness, which means with appropriate public passenger traffic. This does not mean that I am an enemy of cars, but I am a proponent of restricting their use. In Slovenia we have two Andrej – Andrej Detelo and Andrej Pečjak. Mr Detela is the inventor of the best electric motor in the world at the moment, and Mr Pecjak has driven without charge from Bled to Dubrovnik, for those who are weak in geography, 726 kilometers. We have some hidden knowledge in this country, I'm reading smart specializations, and round and square, and on the cubicle; we don't really see the kind of knowledge we have at home, we don't want to see. A very important issue was pointed out by the railway proposer – the transition to normal tension. We've been here a little bit in history, and we're not going to talk about it. Most probably don't even understand what Dani has been explaining and how medium-term development is problematic. No one has mentioned what I have been literally trying to do lately, tying Divaca-Trust to the fast core rail networks, where diplomacy also works too poorly for us. In the light of mobility, if we live in the 21st century – I have a common feeling in this Parliament that we live in the 19th century – we must also be aware that we live in an information society. When we talk about these topics, we also need to think about tele-versus moving when these services are a substitute for something. Not in the way that you close the so-called local offices in the Slovenian countryside, and then there's a little omika if you want to make a new ID card, for example, over the 20 euro thumb; the state has 70 cents on it. These are things we should deal with if we really want to talk. And, of course, money, of course it's not nice to talk about an infrastructure cent, but we're going to have to talk about it this way, because otherwise we're not going to build an infrastructure. And just for the end. I would like this call to the National Assembly, if it holds out until the end of its term of office, to convene a National Assembly that will adopt at least new laws; but these laws will be good. I think we have to make this quality leap, too. Each time a convention of the National Assembly ends, they boast about how many laws they have passed. In short, stop driving cars and go a little deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u21	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the views presented so far and also of the debate, I note that, even by the government and the entire coalition, you have not fully understood what the basic purpose of this law is. The basic purpose of this law is not only to repair holes on main and regional roads; but the basic and essential purpose is to act economically as a primary concern in the Republic of Slovenia. The main purpose is to give the economy and people a job, which is absolutely the most important thing for Slovenia in these times of crisis. Indicators, statistics don't cheat, but they show the real state. In 2008, Slovenia was in charge of 9 billion; today we are in an external debt state of just over 40 billion. Economic, financial accumulation does not end in a circle, if I say domestically – all budgetary revenues are eaten by the public sector and in fact the state has nothing, only from day to day is re-indebted and re-indebted. We can look at an illustration in the neighborhood. When they started building the longest Korean railway tunnel in 2011, the country allocated 6 billion additional investment funds for the next three years only to alleviate the crisis, only with a view to alleviating the crisis; but we do not understand that in Slovenia. The whole of Europe registers on average economic growth or in the construction sector growth by a low 5%; in Slovenia we are back to a low 24% and we are last but not least among all Member States. Then we say there's no need to adopt this law. Whoever really sees these elements doesn't control the parameters here, then I really don't know. Then you say it's a nice marriage. The law we give people a job with, does that appeal to you? This is absolutely necessary. It's not like that, it's an emergency. If I comment a little more on the other debaters. Mr Škoberne from the Social Democrats party – it is not true that Dars has everything in his hands in planning the third development axis. His client of Social Democrats has everything in his hands – his two mayors in the municipalities on which the route runs – Velenje and Braslovče, and the Minister of Agriculture, also by the SD, who does not give the agricultural consent. Then we ask ourselves, who has the accommodation in his hands from the highway to Velenje. Let me answer that for you. Neither does the party Desus understand the need to adopt this law. Mr. Chernač was the minister who advocated the construction of a second track. Then came Mr. Omrzel, who said he would do it for 500 million. Get accurate information and not deceive people. The hands of the marriage are also given. The first deadline is 2023 for projects with basic documentation, which is said to be placed in a space, are ready for construction or even have acquired a building permit. The second extension period is 2030 for those projects which are not yet in such a state of readiness with all these necessary documents. This is primarily about economic recovery. We are certainly not just talking about the construction sector here, but it is true that if investments are made, it will bring the whole economy to life in the country; not just the construction sector. Today we can look at the exact anomalies that are happening that completely simple construction works are being obtained by foreign contractors in the Republic of Slovenia today on public calls. This is happening today that even those small pieces of work that could be given to the domestic construction sector are received by foreigners, because even the Public Procurement Act cannot be adapted, we cannot protect the domestic economy. We're really good at this. Then you really wonder in Desus what the accumulation will be and what we can pay our pensions from. I think that the basic logic is that it is necessary to give people a job, so public consumption starts to take place and this is how revenue comes into the budget. And then for the other public obligations that the state budget must cover, this accumulation is financially closed. Whoever doesn't understand this economy, then I can just say, "God help him." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u23	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Get ready for Mr. Franz Ly and Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u24	Good afternoon. Today's session is kind of a continuation of yesterday's. When the opposition identifies certain problems in society, it comes with solutions, but, as always, the government coalition says they are not systemic, they are populist, and they are not the right time. If anywhere, then I don't know where else but in this house we have to look for solutions to the problems that plague our society. Infrastructure is one of these key problems, which depends on everything that depends on the standard of living of our citizens, which also depends on the business and functioning of the economy. Of course, that's what this is all about. Clearly, the task ahead of us is not easy. If you were, you'd probably be able to do it with your left hand. But since the task is difficult, both hands, left and right are needed. And I'm sure there are serious challenges. In addition to the many new sections – motorways, regional roads, including railways – that this country still needs to build in order to provide better infrastructure for its citizens; there is an existing infrastructure, an existing road in a catastrophic state. I think the Minister has already said about these things that it would take six years to assume that we would greatly increase the funds for the reconstruction of regional roads, but to come to some level, so that at least half of Slovenian roads would be in some decent condition. That is why I think the minister should be grateful for this opposition proposal; I am grateful that the opposition helps him in his efforts. And help us convince your government coalition to step forward on these things, because if there is no step forward, then of course it will remain as it is. And sometimes you have to force someone to do something. Believe me, we are certainly a parliamentary group that travels enormously across Slovenia, meeting people. What the Belokrans or Koros would do to have some exemplary and normal connection with central Slovenia. What would the Styrians give if they had a decent railway connection that would bring you from Maribor to Ljubljana in half an hour. These are things that would greatly improve people’s lives and give them a new opportunity. And this law before us today goes in this direction so that these goals can be achieved. Let's say I like the fact that this law requires us, from the country, to draw up an operational plan, how we will actually implement certain priority projects; it sets priority treatment and lays down certain deadlines. All things are sometimes in the air. The law, at least as far as it's concerned, is exact. Those who have comments, perhaps even better solutions, are of course welcome to come to the day and help the law improve in the second reading. It is a shame, however, that you always reject all opposition laws at first reading. And I'll say one more thing, and then I'll finish. Many times this winged is that it is again an empty day, an insignificant day, a wasted day, a waste of money, and the like. Let me be very clear, people need to know that Members have the same salary, or we sit at these meetings for thirty days a month or just one day. No day when we talk about important things about Slovenia is a day thrown away.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u25	Mr. Franz Ly has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Janka Weber and Bell Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! I join all those who feel that today's debate is necessary and that it will benefit from actually speeding things up in this area, because infrastructure is one of the fundamental foundations for a competitive economy; like a backbone. If this is not or is not appropriate, in poor condition and impractical, it certainly hampers economic growth. Next. All investments or investments in infrastructure have, however, multiple effects. There has already been a lot of talk about the construction sector, which is marked by major downturns, but we know that without this sector it is difficult to ensure sustainable economic growth, as a number of sectors are still linked to the construction sector. It is therefore of paramount importance that a transport development strategy, which we already have, and a national programme that we do not already have, be prepared in good time and in good time. I ask the Minister, or he has already mentioned something when we can confirm the national programme in the National Assembly. And then as a concrete project is an operational plan, which is extremely important so that planned investments can be carried out in a qualitative manner. As I have already said, in a way, I see that the fate of infrastructure development is shaped by quality and timely planning and the provision of funding resources. The basis, and this quality basis, is certainly ensured by the proper planning and preparation of the entire project documentation. Even in this area, as far as funding is concerned, we are recording very large deficits, which also certainly has a negative impact on an economic situation that may not have escalated as long as this gap continues. The point is, in a way, after today's debates, I doubt that both laws will be adopted. That's too bad. However, I certainly see the added value in that we should speed up the activities and get the national programme on the table as soon as possible to confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u27	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Prepare Mr. Zvonka Lah and Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Perhaps, first of all, a little bit of memory, and also the fact that a key delay, if I may call it, was caused by a change in the toll system in the development of road infrastructure. This system also changed from closed to open. With this, every time we introduced a certain change, we systematically lost the highest quality source, which is the one that the user pays directly when using the highway. Finally, we came up with vinjets, which have dramatically penetrated this source. For a long time, the national development programme has made it very clear that part of the tolls is also intended for the so-called development axis — third, third, and fourth development axis. After the construction of the highway network, these projects could be largely financed by this source. And this is a fact that I have to remind myself of for the reason that today the applicants are looking for a solution that they somehow lost at the moment a vignette system of tolling on Slovenian motorways was introduced in Slovenia. Of course, it must be said that this vignette system has led to much more traffic from state and local roads being diverted to motorways, so that safety on our roads has also increased dramatically. As a result, there are significantly fewer accidents than on local and state roads, which are mainly in very poor condition and therefore even more dangerous for users. The positive side of the vineyards is that significantly more traffic went to motorways and that, therefore, we also have significantly more safety in traffic than we would otherwise have had. On the other hand, nothing concrete has happened in the search for concrete resources in this period since the switchover to the vignette system, so that the state road network, including rail, can be updated in greater dynamics. But if we stay on the road network, it's definitely one of the issues we have to solve in a very short time. Since the Transport Development Strategy was adopted in the Republic of Slovenia, one of the important strategic documents was adopted, but then it is stuck in the implementation of this strategic document. I think it would really be necessary to come to the National Assembly as soon as possible with a national programme and identify routes, priorities, amounts and sources of funding for these roads. Without that, we will always wander from the budget to the budget and provide some minimum resources that are far from what is necessary. This law, which is before us today, and also the next law to be considered, is an approximation of what should actually happen, to take some serious decision on how to approach the construction of infrastructure. It is also interesting, I do not think it is irrelevant, however, because of further discussions and the search for solutions, when we look at the material prepared by the applicant and also shows regulation in other legal systems or other countries. For example, Germany is one of the leading economic superpowers in Europe and also in the world is building infrastructure with public funds. Therefore, it is irrelevant if we read this part for Germany too, because we are still looking for private investors in the infrastructure in Slovenia, which we do not find and do not find. Probably won't be able to find them in a year or two or more. And time goes on. Since Slovenia has a truly outstanding strategic position where it could use updated infrastructure, this has already proved remarkable in road transport. [[…]] No designer, when the highway network was designed, predicted the volume of traffic that is actually taking place on highways in Slovenia today. Naturalism itself calls for infrastructure to be our great challenge. To be honest, even in 2007, when we took over the euro, the biggest indicator in economic growth was actually the construction of a highway network. And the gross domestic product, which was then also growing on the basis of the construction of highways, enabled Slovenia to take over the euro. Of course, today this fact limits us to a large extent, because when you are in the euro area, you also have more stringent rules on borrowing loans and managing public finances. Let me just briefly mention here that we probably also missed the amount of bank recovery after all the data available, and therefore we unnecessarily increased the public debt. These are some of the facts that make it impossible for Slovenia to go through more dynamics to build infrastructure with public funds right now. Even when we read the Ministry of Finance's position on this law, it rightly points out that indeed 10% of the excise duty, if allocated to road infrastructure, we reach into an integrated budget in a way that reduces revenues or funds for other resources between €90 million and €100 million. That's certainly true, and we can believe that. However, I am surprised when I continue to look at this position and find that they also justify an additional infrastructure contribution from the use of energy in a way that will only cause irritation, consequently lower sales of certain articles and the implementation of services and consequently even lower revenues into the budget. It is true that neither the proposer nor the Ministry of Finance has touched on this fact that these investments bring new jobs, bring new income into all cash registers and also bring economic growth. This gross domestic product is the product that has a strong impact on how resources are then shared within individual sources. This aspect is not worked out and it is essential that we obtain a national programme for the construction of infrastructure, road infrastructure and rail infrastructure as soon as possible in the National Assembly, and that these investments for economic growth in Slovenia are evaluated accordingly. That part's missing. Once we do so, we will be able to see very quickly that this infrastructure can also be built with loans of 20, 25 years of age and that it can also be paid to a large extent with the current excise duties, because they fluctuate them. If we look at the study they did at the Business Excellence Centre of the Faculty of Economics, we can read that the price of petrol and diesel on the domestic market has fluctuated by more than 40 cents per litre of fuel over the last six years. If we are talking about a cent, in this fluctuation of 40 cents, it is also not possible to talk about direct irritation, increasing the cost of consumers, because this is bound in any way to the formula that is valid. The government has quite a lot of scissors and linen in its hands, how much of these excise duties will it pick up on an individual increase and how much not. We can't even talk about putting extra pressure on all users, because this fluctuation is already present today. The price of fuel also increased the day before yesterday, but nothing special happened in Slovenia to say that we caused this stimulation. This source is real and would make sense in the form of a specific law, probably as soon as possible, to bring it to the National Assembly and to use it to build highways. To illustrate at the second track, which we talk about a lot and do little. It is very clear from this study that between 0,32 cents and 0.62 cents per litre of fuel would actually be able to raise EUR 207 million between 2020 and 2025, which in fact means repayment of the liabilities for the loan, including interest, for the construction of a second track. So just 0.32 or 0.62 cents per litre of fuel. This should evaluate all investments, including the third development axis, the third development axis, the fourth development axis and approach the construction of all these investments. In fact, a lot of data is already selected, but it is the one from which we can assess the economic growth due to these investments, the number of new jobs, the number of funds in the health allowance, the pension allowance, which will be collected into the integrated budget. And this should, in my view, be one of the debates to be held in the National Assembly in a short time. Then it will be much easier for us to adopt such laws as we have today on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u29	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me say that this law is comprehensive, systematic and comprehensive. It's constant, canceling its own fluctuations in infrastructure investments. Of course, we are for every good proposal, and the assembly of Members is 90 members, and we are prepared to accept any additional suggestion to this law. We are also absolutely not burdened by a list of priority recruitments, projects that are expected to be operationally implemented in this time dynamic by 2030. The foundation is the professional basis, this is the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. Here, too, it is possible to weigh the importance, necessity of certain projects among themselves, which project to place first. My colleague, Mr Weber, mentioned comparisons of calculations, the very benefits of individual projects, which are difficult to calculate; which failure to build a specific infrastructure transport project that is not being built causes greater social and economic damage. This is extremely difficult to calculate, but we basically see that all investments in transport infrastructures give good financial effects to the primary economy and also to economic companies, Darsu, Slovenian railways, where the performance of the business results improves from year to year. This is said to give positive multiplier effects. We must also be aware of the consequences if we do not actually have the vision that this is proposed. We need to be aware of the consequences. If I list just a few of the most basic consequences, despite the favourable traffic position of the Republic of Slovenia, traffic flows will increasingly bypass us. I'm especially exposing the rail network here. Slovenia joined the corridor from Luka Koper to Gradac five minutes before the 12th, to the Baltic-Adriatic Corridor, which runs from the Baltic Sea across Austria, throughout Austria forwards to Italy; this is said to pass Slovenia. Slovenia has moved into this corridor at the last moment with its foot. Road freight is greatly increasing at the expense of falling behind in investment in rail infrastructure. We ourselves feel this every day on highways, as well as in the necessary necessary investments in repairs and rehabilitation on newly built highways. Freight traffic in the Republic of Slovenia is 400% above the projected forecast, leaving consequences for infrastructure. We also have a very poor connection of passenger transport with neighbouring countries, Italy and Croatia. We cannot come from Slovenia to Venice by rail. And there is quite a lack of such links with other neighbouring countries. We have to count on the consequences of the increasing congestion on the roads, especially on raids into larger cities. In particular, I am referring here to the Ljubljana ring, where the construction of the third belt is a necessity, because the congestion will increase rapidly. And not only in those peaks of the tourist season, but in fact it will be a daily stalemate that will increase rapidly on the heels of the Ljubljana ring. Not to mention the seasonal tip in Primorsk, where we do not have a built connection with the Republic of Croatia, the so-called connection to the Jagodje do Lucija. The wages in the tourist season will be enormous. The capacity of rail lines is also largely exceeded and effectively prevents further rail development, increasing from year to year. And also the environmental aspect where emissions and greenhouse gas increases are increasing. Poor transport infrastructure also generally improves transport security in its entirety. These are the consequences that we must be aware of, and all these consequences must be accepted if we do not have a clear vision. And we do not have these clear visions in Slovenia in building transport infrastructure. We don't have it. It is true that it is forecast to be in the future, but it will be one year from the adoption of the strategy in last July. Time is running out, and on this segment we are absolutely too slow. The economy will also feel from day to day. A significant lower share of investment in 2016 will be catastrophic for the economy. In a year, when the annual data of the decline in construction in Slovenia is also known, we can only imagine what the data will be in one year's time, how big the decline of the construction sector in the Republic of Slovenia will be recorded in 2016. Once again, I am not just talking about the construction sector, I am not just advocating construction as part of the economy, because we know that construction is an engine for the further development of the whole economy and, of course, also the charging of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u31	Mr. Janko Weber has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you. In this part of the replica, I would just like to explain further that I will be even more clear on what I wanted to say in my debate on the case of the second track. The current Koper–Friendly track measures 43.8 kilometres; the second track is foreseen at a length of 27.2 kilometres. The difference is 16.6 kilometers. That's how short the new trail will be. And if we take the price of a net ton kilometer, that's the price of a ton of cargo that's one kilometer long, that's 0.1 euros per net ton kilometer. If we take traffic in 2014 and the difference in mileage 16.6 km, 0.1 euros per net tonne kilometer and the quantity of cargo 10 million and 17 tonnes; savings in one year 16 million 628 000 euros. This is a concrete effect, what we can do with updating the infrastructure, even by reducing some mileage that is certainly possible right at the second track. Taking into account the configuration of the track, the existing track has a 25-mile slope, which is non-permanent and therefore very demanding for operators. The new route has 17 miles of constant inclination, which means that we lift the weight of trains from a thousand 600 tonnes to 2,000 tons. Instead of two to three train locomotives, only one locomotive is needed on a new track. This significantly reduces electricity consumption, reaching three to four times the driving time in this section. These savings are already estimated to be 50 % by track length due to a more constant slope. For example, for 2014, savings due to better configuration and a shorter distance for transport would amount to EUR 25 million. If, of course, we are also counting the increase in cargo in Luka Koper due to the second track and the expansion of the dams, then in 2040, a total of EUR 66 million per year would be saved after the planned transhipment and transport of this freight by rail. So there are concrete calculations for specific investments, and it is indeed necessary to approach projects for specific sections as soon as possible and then to calculate savings on transport. As a result, you may be able to defend some of the incentives for fuel, since the transporter will still have a lower, lower cost in total than would have been the result of this update. And these are the data and procedures that really need to be continued as soon as possible; and to have this conversation with the economy to make this breakthrough and to stop talking more or less at times.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u33	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to the Minister and the others! If Slovenia needs something now, it needs economic growth and new jobs to fill the cash registers, all cash registers and have more resources within the budget to develop infrastructure. According to the geographical position, Slovenia has developmental potential mainly in logistics, which requires good transport infrastructure; and tourism, because we have natural characteristics. We've built highways to the end. We'll pay for them for a few years. However, the situation on state roads is not rosy. We have been waiting 20 years for a programme for the development of state roads. When I looked at the development programme plan by 2019, there are several hundred items on state and municipal roads. The necessary resources after 2019 are around 750 000 for projects already started. Of these several hundred projects, I counted 47 of them, which were started in the previous century; they have not yet been completed. The launch of these projects included significant funds from municipalities and also from countries, and the projects remained at half time and the question is what results are given in semi-built projects. It would be time for these projects to be refined, for those who are urgently needed, even in agreement with the economy and local self-government, to be completed with the municipalities and to produce the right results. When we talked about coherent regional development, the development of the economy after Slovenia, equitable development, transport infrastructure is very important for this development, transport infrastructure is the main thing. How a region should plan its economic development, invests in economic, industrial zones, in some economic infrastructure, if the country does not build a transport infrastructure that is the basis for access to these zones or centres. And nobody's counting on it. We have in preparation and are preparing in part for the construction of a cluster of development axes – third development axis, third A development axis, fourth, and another, we call development axes; we plan them as transport links. We do not take into account the development component or component of the economy. Some developmental axes are as mapped as Stalin used to draw — from the west to the east or from the north to the south; without taking into account the needs of the economy. Some are even unacceptable for space. The transport-economic study is negative and will always be negative; this will never be worth building these links. As a colleague of mine said before, we have no vision, let alone a strategy, what we want with tourism, what we want with logistics or transport infrastructure. There would probably be a lot of help here for the provinces, the so-called second level of local self-government, which would produce projects of provincial or regional importance; and the pressure on the country would be so much higher. However, this is not the case, and every political option, when it comes to power, brings to the top its projects, which usually just start; and the government changes and the projects remain. All they spend is money. That is why I think that these two laws are a good foundation on which it can be built to add a lot more to the process of adopting these two laws, and it may also specify that the first phase, such as the first five years or by 2019, which is also the subject of a development programme plan, is to be clarified. The profession points out that on state roads the situation is that roads will cause more deaths and each death toll costs a society of between €600 million and €800 million. And if we add up all the deaths annually on the roads, there is an even greater amount than the minister has available for the modernisation, maintenance or construction of state and probably municipal roads together. I have repeatedly pointed out to the Infrastructure Committee, when we discussed roads, that the country should, in the long run, allocate the necessary resources for transport infrastructure in the budget and not reduce them. As is the case with pension funds, where the fixed amount is fixed — we do not lower them there, but give them as much as we have to put in the pension register — we should also have the means provided for roads. The Ministry has the money to maintain about 3,000 kilometers of state roads, and we have 6,000 of them, which is half. Who's gonna keep the rest half? The profession warns that if we are still a few years behind maintenance needs, we will need significantly more resources to normalise the situation because they are rapidly increasing injuries on these roads. We also have a significant increase in traffic, and no one in the studies anticipated that there would be so much freight traffic on our roads ten years ago. Ljubljana or the carriageways will soon be a bottleneck due to trucks. Not only in the fifth corridor, but also in the tenth corridor freight traffic is substantially increasing. As our, sometimes brotherly republics go to the European Union, freight traffic will increase significantly more rapidly. Ljubljana will be a bottleneck and another ring around Ljubljana should be planned. Or more quickly build, modernise railways and freight transport to the railway tracks; otherwise we will miss the development opportunity to deal with logistics. Logistics is not just transport, logistics gives multiple effects and new jobs. This is what the neighbouring countries are exploiting. We, who are near the North Adriatic ports, do not see it, do not have a vision, let alone a strategy. Some other funding options should also be sought. Relying on a public-private partnership, I don't see any more roads or railways to fund a private investor in infrastructure with the idea that he will get paid back these funds that he will invest with some minimum profit. Railway track, all railway infrastructure gives us 7-10 million per year, the toll is significantly higher, there is some more to be gained, and there is very little to be gained on the railway. Nobody counts on how much the state has to invest to maintain this railway infrastructure and gets back a kilometer to a ton less than Austria’s railways. Five times less! But from the budget, the public economic service, such as passenger transport, maintenance of the road at the expense of passenger traffic, it covers everything in a way, it all comes from the budget, instead of being more market-oriented and more user-friendly. Of course, it is difficult to lift the use if trains drive 35 kilometers an hour; as in the days of Mary Teresa. If you were to drive at least 100 kilometers an hour, you would probably be able to get more to use our railway tracks. As I come from the southern part of Slovenia, I also wonder about the realization of the middle and southern part of the third development axis. The profession reminds me that the transport-economic study is negative and will continue to be negative. If it's negative, then it shouldn't be built because it's not worth it. The middle part, this is a study of variants, is done, but the best or chosen variant has shown that the transport-economic study is negative; and it will happen again, as far as I know. But I doubt that any option will be so cheap that, given the projected traffic on this part, the transport and economic study will be positive. I'm afraid I'm just going to throw aside the money at tens of millions for this part; we're not going to wait for the performance. On the other hand, we urgently need to modernise the state road of the Peace Valley, where there are quite a few economies where the development of this economy is impossible precisely because of the road connection. And I am sure that with the money we will spend on the design and for all the costs of this part of the third development axis, we will solve the "gross" of the road's problems in the Valley of Peace and that until the third development axis is built, the economy on this part will pay us back strongly all the funds invested. The other is the south side. I fear that only these five kilometres of the third development axis around the New City will be built, and there will never be any money for the tunnel through the Gorjanci, as is evident in the development programme plan. I do not see how it would be better or more favourable after 2019. However, we miss the opportunity to connect with neighbouring Croatia and Bosnia, where there is a great interest in connecting from Bosiljevo to Novo Mesto, for which we could probably also get European funds, together with neighbouring countries, and build this road link that would connect us to the southern part; finally with Luka Reka and Dalmatia, where there is likely to be a very great interest for tourists. And if we can stop any more of these tourists in Slovenia and develop an economy with this in the White landscape, we will be paid a fortune. Otherwise, I fear that for several more decades, the white landscape will be cut off from the central part of Slovenia. And the country in the budget of this money will not have to link only the White Land to the New City. I miss the government's initiative in this work, local mayors talk to each other, negotiate, interests exist, our municipalities are associated with Bosnian municipalities, interest exists. However, something is missing in between, some linkage article, and we have a European Infrastructure Commissioner who may also be able to help create some sub-corridor in this work and get some additional funding. Of course, it's not overnight. It's a matter of years to plan. It is also necessary to look a few years ahead, but not just for your mandate, and to plan in the long term. I see here the possibility of building not only from budget resources but also from European grants. And then we develop this southern part of Slovenia. A new city as a center takes on a completely different meaning if there is a branch of another sub-corridor here. That is why I appeal to the government, to the minister, to try to tackle this because there are interests or what are great in the neighbouring countries; this is only a matter of willingness and goodwill to take advantage. However, if we wait a few more years, I am afraid that the neighbouring country of Croatia will connect this by its work with Hungary; and then this train will take off. I think that this law or that both marriages are a very suitable basis to agree that some medium-term programme may be done; not only what we will build, but also what we will plan for the future. And it is necessary to do new traffic studies, because all the old ones were transported, that all the expectations that planners had at the time were exceeded. It is necessary to put things on a new footing and also to look for money, but along with the economy. If we went to the development axis, it should be the development axis; not just the traffic links for foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Let Mr Bojan Podkoršek prepare. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I would like only to express my support for you, or more specifically for the document you will bring to the National Assembly, which will follow the content presented in this paragraph by my colleague, Ljubo Žnidar, which is the programme for the construction of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. Perhaps according to the example of the National Program for the Construction of Motorways, which has a 1995 birthday, was not concrete, it was flexible. In relation to this programme, I would like to say to the National Programme for the Construction of Highways that the National Assembly, in its mandate 2004-2088, had this crust, that it also changed it, that it did not blindly follow it, in the construction of the Moorish motorway. Why? This programme planned to be built in 2013 by the Moorish motorway to Hungary. However, since the Republic of Slovenia entered the European Union on 1 May 2004, international freight forwarders or heavy truck drivers were the fastest to understand what the free movement of goods, people and so on means; and we had, at the moment of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, say, the Long Village-Maribor 5,000 heavy trucks only in transit. We had a so-called highway on this road. And of course then the then government reached into the National Highway Construction Programme and now the late finance minister Dr. Andrej Bajuk brought the Dars Guarantee Act to the National Assembly, and by 14 August 2008, we also built this highway. I remember, back then, I was the only Pomurian coalition MP. The Pomur economy presented me with a calculation on which were estimates of how much the pomur economy is losing at annual level due to its lack of link to the highway at that time. This number was 2 billion tolars at the time, a good 8 million euros. Therefore, this infrastructure needs to be built – because of the economy, due to the rise in gross social product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Ivo Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about very important two laws, but on the other hand, I am a little sad, especially in the segment, when I listened to the presentations of the parliamentary groups. Colleagues and colleagues, sometimes I have a feeling, especially I have it today, as if we've reached out to one law in that 100-day government quota. Colleagues and colleagues, it will soon be two years when we sit in this national council. In comparison, let me say that we no longer know – even in some local environment, when we are members of the coalition and the opposition, when it comes to one road – step together. People there don't care who's driving down that road, whether we're in coalition or in opposition; we're in this national council to solve problems. This March session would be much shorter, now one and a half days if there were no opposition. Today we are talking about these two laws, which are extremely important for the economy; for the first time for the economy, as far as construction is concerned, for the second time for the economy that still needs these modern roads in order to expand its production and also to sell its products around the world. We have done very little in this area for 20 months. We in the National Assembly have only two options, or the ministry, the coalition brings the law to the table, that the opposition has another comment, we accept it and it goes into effect. But if that is not the case, it is our job, the opposition, to draft the law, to submit it; and you must be so careful that you put your proposals together and we will adopt it together and we will start implementing this strategy once in the field of infrastructure. This is our task – the task of the coalition and the opposition. To have a professional in Slovenia, he was an indicator of this last accident in Trbovje, where the profession did its job with a medal. I have to say in my personal name, I don't know the people in charge, I really have to commend them. This is an indication that we have a profession in Slovenia. Our task, this National Assembly, is to allow these people to work and carry out their mission and mission. Dear Minister, even when I talk to another minister of this government, we always run into a financial minister's problem. He's always stuck with the finance minister. I don't want to judge his expertise, but many times I think, Mr. Secretary and your colleagues and colleagues in this government, that you're probably a little too persistent, too determined. And, of course, he's always in charge of the last Minister of Finance. This is also due to today's session, today's proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party, both laws. I am firmly convinced that none of us are sitting in the National Assembly to take pictures, to make statements to the media, that we may be talking about infertile things at the meetings. But our mission and mission is to give a pace to the development of Slovenia. That is why I think this frailty, especially the coalition Members, is that this meeting does not even need to be discussed. That seems irresponsible to me. When I listened to my colleague Ivan of Desus, I know that his position, the position of the delegation, did not grow on his diaphragm. Mr Ivan has been in the economy for many years and has never had the opportunity to speak or do things that are not fruitful. I want to warn you, let's be aware of today's subject. I understand that today it may be a little awkward for anyone, especially the coalition; but if you had your resolution in the past, the strategy already on the table, this meeting would certainly not have been. As a non-expert, if we were to go for the first year of this mandate to build a third development axis, we know what our opinion was about this axis at the beginning of the mandate, to develop a Koro region, to awaken our construction companies, to hire our citizens and citizens. As a result, because we had jobs and jobs, spending would also relax. I think it's time to pour ourselves some clean wine here, so we don't wait around empty tables without documents, to trust a professional who can work in Slovenia. Our determination must be a little different. Today is the 142nd anniversary of Rudolph Maister's birth. I would not go into his history because it is not today for this time; but I would recommend at least a little of his determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor; Mr Tomaž Lisec should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Both draft laws are very interlinked, so that the debate will be linked to both, but also not only to the construction of transport infrastructure, that is to say roads and railways, but also to their investment maintenance. In the past, as we know, a highway cross was being built, which is now finally in the final phase. As a result of this construction, investment and maintenance of state roads have suffered our great sorrow. Some of them in the past, I remember, have pointed out that at the expense of building highways, state roads will suffer. At that point, I felt that this could not be the case because the funds were provided on the one hand on the highway construction item and on the other, for the construction of state roads and for the efficient investment maintenance of these roads. Unfortunately, that's not how it turned out. Now it is still difficult for us to expect the construction of the third development axis and the construction of the second track of Koper-Divač, which we know is more than necessary. I need to give the applicants a little credit if they have already written a list of the projects envisaged and according to their necessary projects, they have completely forgotten or bypassed Zasavje. We know that already in 2010 a state spatial plan was adopted for more than necessary the Hrastnik-Zidani bridge. Well, we haven't done anything about it until today. And the other thing about Zasavje is also this third development axis, this is the course of the third development axis where this central part will go. Now we are somehow in the final stage, where, in the north of Koroška to Velenje, from Velenje to the highway in Savina Valley, this route will come. We already know about the southern part, the white landscape, around New Town, something will even be built. However, the central part is still unknown, and nothing has been done about it. There are three variants. One is through Zasavje, the other is through Laska and the third is through Šentjur. Zasavje is actually the most suitable and actually the only real route should go through Zasavje – Zagorje ob Savi, Trbovlje, Hrastnik. Zagorje already has this solution to connect to the highway across Troyan, while Trbovlje and Hrastnik are blind intestines, where we do not actually have one real connection outside. From my point of view, there is not even a good solution through Laško; not just from my point of view, even from a suture point of view. Now there are some options for this to go to Celje, along the highway to Celje, then through Laško and Sevnica and down. In Lashka there is another civil initiative that opposes this. For Hrastnik and Trbovlje this leg is not actually good. If we're going to tie ourselves to this third development axis route in the Wall Bridge, where we're going to get to if I'm paraphrasing a little bit – in Radeče. But if this route went under the tunnel, which is foreseen in one of the proposals, this is between Hrastnik, Trubljaci in Savinja Valley on the highway, then we have open options, left to Ljubljana, Kopra, Western Europe and up to Maribor and towards Eastern Europe. The other two proposals are not acceptable to us. I believe that the Minister here will listen to this initiative and our proposals and that somehow this operational plan will find this road the Hrastnik-Zidani Bridge and also this tunnel, this connection that it will be. I have to say, I'm just gonna be here for a while. I believe that I will also have the support of fellow Members and Members of Parliament from Zasavje to move this matter forward. If I go back a little bit longer, I must say that the fact that there is something we need to change on investments and on regular investment maintenance and also do. We know that in terms of 2014-2020 these European funds will be less, somewhere around 400 million is foreseen; and we will have to work as rationally as possible to do as much as possible. However, I must say that even in the past, years ago, perhaps even decades ago, these funds, which were also available for investment maintenance, did not work most rationally or were used unintentionally by certain funds. One case that really bothers me, because I am also driving to work, is that it came even so far that certain bridges in Slovenia had to be partially closed. They were so long-lasting, nothing happened on maintenance that they were so long-lasting that they no longer allowed safe two-way rides across bridges; so that many bridges are now alternate. Here we must make sure that these funds that will be provided will truly be used deliberately and that we will make the maximum possible of this. With regard to the provision of these funds, how we will ensure this, there have been several options, one of them also petrol prices; we will see what happens. However, we have already received data from the Ministry of Finance to provide funds from the 2016, 2017, 2018 budget in the coming years; we have been told. These funds will also be increased every year, and I hope that the ministry will also keep this word and that it will do its utmost to make this money as much as possible so that we can work successfully in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. A respected minister with co-workers and colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting! Let me start with the introductions. The minister said there was no need for this marriage, at least he didn't say he was against it. And he said we had a strategy, but we're preparing an operational plan. Strategies, resolutions, operational plans – that is, we are doing what Slovenians are probably the best in the world. We do what we offer most of the money that goes into meters and meters of documents instead of going to meters and meters of individual investments. The SD is also very happy that we have a strategy and that this is just a list of wishes without the possibility of implementation. Such a reflection in the coalition that this is a list of wishes without the possibility of implementation, then, honourable Members of the Coalition and Minister, you will also not be supported by any strategy, no operational plan or any increase in resources in the state budget, if you say that this is without the possibility of implementation. The customer of the modern centre says that it is an intervention in the already started activities which we support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that it will not be misunderstood; and that we would open up new fronts, if I understand correctly. I think all these people who are touched by life in this article in any way would be happy to have a new front opened. Earlier, the applicants said that we would be pleased if this Article 3 followed the procedure, if you gave the green light today, changed or added. Comrade Hršak, we all know we had the President of the government from Zasavje, and apart from one highway connection, he did not do much for Zasavje. I hope that colleague Ivan will be more successful than a Member of this government, but perhaps he will take his own state road to this part. I think these people here are "down hangs" whether the SDS's proponent is an SMC, whether it's an observer of Nova Slovenije, or maybe an SLS, or an SNS, or one of the 100 clients in Slovenia. I think that people in the railway area and all those who live on this work, and all those who do sometimes ride this track, but especially our economy, which boasts many times that Luka Koper is our window into the world, but we do not have access to this window, because we have almost no access to the Koper-Livator railway line, would be happy if we could step up with the law and provide additional financial resources in this project. And I'm going to talk about financial structures in another law that's more explicit about finance. I think that this law, which states that we want to build some modern rail and road infrastructure by 2023 or 2030, by law, where it is determined by means of a sub-legislative act that, on the proposal of the minister before us, the regulation is adopted within one month of the adoption of the transport development programme in the Republic of Slovenia, is nothing bad. Even if we take the time to adopt this law, we might say, well, one month is perhaps too little, despite all the mountain studies that exist on Dars, on the Ministry, on the Directorate and probably somewhere else, and we take half a year and make a final decision; not to listen all the time since 2000: but in a few years you will be on your turn, and in a few years, you will be on your turn to read the introduction to this law, see how disastrous the situation is on our rail and road network. [[…]] Nor is it new, from yesterday to today written material by the SDS Group, which is supposed to be liked. I look at a document that was very well prepared, even colleagues from Social Democrats at the time very actively participated, their visible member, this is the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023. I believe that if the government of 2004-2008 would last until 2015, when I think it was an ideal opportunity for all of these projects, which are not only placed in the space in this Article, but also to become more active in order to build up. That's how we're still digging. Let me get out of here. This Prime Minister boasts of the Nordic centre of Planica, under point 3.1.15 — when, how, who, why, and effects. It is interesting, however, for today's debate, point 3.9.2 and point 3.9.3 and point 3.9.4 – Chapter Modernisation of the rail network, Modernisation of the state road network on priority development axes, Additional motorway programme. And when we read this, we write everything down nicely: project subject, images, development axes, project objectives, how the project solves problems, the effects of the project and, of course, the financial design of the project. But this was written in 2007, decades ago. And if we look at the state of Slovenian railways, highways and state roads at the time and in 2016, when we had a golden period of European funding – what did we do?Oh, my God! In the railway area, there's a section there. The ones we drive to Ljubljana, at least from our end, we still ride with the peacocks. If we're lucky, a new Siemens will take us. But we dream about some railways, at least some of the connections they have a few times a day on Maribor-Ljubljana. Not to talk about dreams that are likely to be the dream of the next generation, how Slovenian railways can be driven by trains made in Italy, France or even in Japan. It's all written down here. This is a copy of the pasta, and we are still in the strategy, and we are still in the strategy that the Minister probably put in the drawer after 2008 until 2011, and then another Janševa government reappeared and said that European funds should be exhausted by 2015. This perspective is very good for investments, and let us give another impetus. We needed some kind of project. We have started to prepare the strategy, but this strategy was being prepared again through two successive governments and was adopted last year, which, of course, was commended to the Minister. But you know, strategies, resolutions without an implementation plan, which, according to the Minister, will once only be received, all these people, with all these road connections, will still dream of a wish list. And as I said before, they will be "down hanged" whether Members voted in favour of this law or for this measure from left to right. And I think it needs to be further refined or even more specific. I remember a Member of the previous term. At first, she was one year in the coalition, and we opposition Members asked her, "What about this third development axis?" She did that a little bit — I'm from the White Country, not asking our minister because I'm embarrassed. But look at the fragment, it came to the opposition, every other meeting of the National Assembly, an oral question: I am a member of the White Country and I am so interested in when the third development axis will be made. And Mr Chernač said, "Look, we just have to decide what and how in the lower part. Even once at the meeting, he hoped to threaten that since the Koros could not discuss where the north part was, perhaps to start building from below; perhaps, however, to give encouragement to the Belokrans as a rather backward region; especially because of the traffic deficit. He listened to them again for two months in the media, and among the messengers from Styria, Savinja, and Koroška, how he hoped to think. I was once present at a committee meeting, and I said that I would immediately support the possibility that the Dolenjians and the Belokranians in one large building would really immediately change and from that set of hundreds of conceptual sketches, we would probably go to the councils to give their consent; and we would move on. And most where the mayor wins with the municipal councils, that's what they do. Let us be honest if we give one mayor two municipal roads for treatment, which is the best, the most developed, the most economically justified, first of all, two civil initiatives will be taken, which they will say – and we will not let this happen, it is protected for us. With us, the country will say that it is Natura; then some will say that – no, we are more justified because we are more in deficit; then others will say that because of other influences they are more underdeveloped, and so on. And we'll never make a decision. And it seems to suit someone. If you don't make up your mind, you don't have to fund it either. And that's great. Our road and rail corridors are a typical project, where they move a little bit around here and there, but we only look at local trees; we do not see a forest called the Republic of Slovenia. And I repeat, not only the construction or completion of the highway crossing, which is fortunately moving at least on the Styrian part, but also with the help of this minister, that we will be honest; but also the railway corridor is urgently in need of reconstruction, reconstruction. And here are the state roads. I have asked the current minister two or three parliamentary questions about these black dots in the area of bridge facilities. I hope, Minister, it's happening. And perhaps even if certain funds were put in the budget items, the directorate, Darsa put in this law, perhaps the minister would have more open hands somewhere else and would say: here, in 2016 and 2017 we will do these 13 and now 15 and the next analysis will probably show more black spots in the area of bridge crossings, which are urgently needed. We have two of these black dots in Sevnica. And if anything happens to this bridge, let's forget the industrial zone we have. You have heard of Lisco, Kopitarna, Stilles and several other companies – if this bridge falls together, first one month will have a problem with the railway connection Zagreb-Ljubljana, because it will fall on this railway track and forget about the entire freight traffic into the industrial zone and these companies. And then it's going to cost not only a million or two to fix this bridge facility, but it's going to be much bigger. This is just like when we go to a doctor — whether we will stop or not. Personally, I prefer to go to the dentist to prevent pain, and then I heal it for a month. And I think that's where the matter is in this direction, too. Even so, we are so far away that individual congregations are praying and adopting national spatial plans — of course, they are also paying them to make no mistake — in the hope that they may eventually come into the design of development projects. Mayor Mirne pays for the state spatial plan, but he still hopes to come into the development project plan, where there are actually some projects that are probably local February in mind. But somehow they got in touch with the former ministers and they said, we'll open the line, put up 10,000 euros, and the item will be in the budget, which is better than nothing. But we have a concrete project, and we all hope – half Posavje, half of Dolenjska, downhill from Trebnje – that this project will eventually come to life. Whoever's driving down the state road at least three miles, closes down a little bit more and presses the brakes and waits for the two guys to meet, or you'll be successful enough when one of the truckers gets knocked down so you don't land in his ass. And it is with such laws that such a project could not only give content, especially finance. I will not talk about what they have already talked about, what this means for our economy, for our tourism, if the railway or transport corridor is modernised anywhere. If we just look at what the draft law says, the rail infrastructure quality index. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not be embarrassed, but we are the Balkans. Three countries have even worse railway infrastructure, from which we make a fool, but then it's our turn. And now ask the foreign economists if they're even thinking about getting traffic on the railways. I have a personal experience when, in 1985-1990, she still drove the cargo traffic of Turkey-Germany. When I arrived at the Ljubljana Bridge train station, I was thrilled to see my father at work – an incredibly long composition with trucks loaded with such and other raw materials that went either north or south. And you won't believe what happened to those. This train is no longer there; it is because the railways themselves do not know how to decide, the greater traffic on our national roads, which I think we should at least get on the railways, but not that the different, especially foreign carriers, make our roads worse, and they thin so elsewhere. But, like I said, I'll tell you a little bit more about the financial structure. In short, I hope that until we vote in this direction, we will not look at this law as opposition through the party line, but to think about the entire corridor of people with these rail and state-way connections, that it will not matter to them who pressed "for" only to press "for". And that it will be done sooner or later, even if by 2023 or 2030 something will be done. Minister, you said earlier that there was no need. I hope that tonight, until the vote, you make this effort together with the coalition Members, who are listening to this debate with their throats, because they know that people need this connection with all these frequencies; that you press the coalition MPs and turn this phrase "no need" into the phrase "unnecessaryly necessary". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I have to agree here with my colleague, the previous speaker, who said that this law or the area of infrastructure in Slovenia is not now party-defined, or who is on the left, who is on the right, who is proposing any law. All those laws or proposals that go towards improving infrastructure in Slovenia are welcome. However, I hoped before this meeting that the coalition would only see that it was not a matter of any populism by the Slovenian Democratic Party on this proposal; it was a matter of specific lengths, of good intentions that would enable citizens to do what is stated in all strategies, including in the infrastructure strategy, that we want coherent regional development, that we want to encourage the economy, that we want normal and safe transport in Slovenia and that it is important for the transport participants to be safe. I am not saying in particular what this means for the efficiency of the economy if we have a well-developed infrastructure. Unfortunately, I was wrong, i.e. the coalition strongly rejects any good initiative by the opposition, even today's infrastructure incentives. But when I look at our railways, if I start with them, it's like we're talking about some science fiction, what our railways are going to be like soon. Why science fiction? If you are looking at, say, what was the development of railways abroad, then Slovenia, which says how it moves abroad. The example of Toledo-Madrid is the same distance as Ljubljana-Cele, and you get there by train in 33 minutes and in Slovenia from Ljubljana to Celje in one hour if you are lucky. If you're lucky! And that is why I say that this is a science fiction for me in Slovenia, given how Slovenia resists to really move forward with the development of Europe. It seems to me, no, I don't think, it's definitely a way for each government to set some of its priorities. I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. And this proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party, by this law, which infrastructure is to be restored or to be implemented in the future, should be a guide for all governments. And today we have also heard, say, from a Member of Parliament, who is now the right third development axis, which is not the right one. If we think like this in Slovenia, then we will never have a third development axis, not faster trains, no bypasses, nothing; if every smart one wants to have a bypass through your village or a fast road. The priorities set out in this law should be set and then adhered to. Not everyone who goes to the minister and asks him for roads, which I must say is probably always happening, then with some comfort the ministry or the DRSC gives some financial means of comfort. And it's a true work to everyone that something is then a bit of peace. I understand the Minister, I believe he advocates better infrastructure in Slovenia, that there are financial problems, that there is no money. But if you set some priorities and people know you say the ministry or government: now we're going to be doing, say, a certain infrastructure, your turn now, this area, this region will be on the turn of the year and this. I know some of the state roads that have been given in the NRP since 2006-2008; and every year the same answer: next year, next year, because there is no, at least I have a feeling, such an implementation plan that would say exactly: now we will do this project until the end, then we start a new one. [[…]] And here I think this law is helping the minister. This is certainly not about criticism, but about helping to set these priorities that we can adhere to. I still think that the coalition could support things at least in the first reading and then things could go on. If you drive on highways, there are still convoys of trucks, 20 trucks one after the other along Slovenian highways, we do not have normal rail traffic from north to south and vice versa. People in the field say, well, now the Ministry only deals with the second track, but what do we do? Of course, everyone says, "What about us?"Oh, my God! In certain regions, they go from Haloz to Kozjanski, who do not have normal infrastructure, to connections to the highway, because there are simply no connections. If I look at your region, your area, i.e. the area of Kozjansko, the highway leads past Šentjur, Dramalje; there you can leave for Rogaška, which is a tourist town, there is no normal connection. Everyone, from the congregations, also the ministry, is likely to settle matters in that area. I will not now think about where this road would be best to go, but it is important to know that if we want a coherent regional development, we need to connect all regions normally with normal infrastructure; that we do not drive on state roads that are already halfway across the country today. And then we talk about the safety of citizens on the roads. Until an accident happens, then we're all smart enough to solve the infrastructure anyway. Civil initiatives are also taking place in the field. One is to hinder the development of infrastructure or construction; the other is to assist the Ministry in the acquisition of land, regulation and so on. He's slowing people down. We seem to have built some sort of highway cross, rail infrastructure, and now it's over. In addition, when railways were built or reconstructed, the highway was also burdened by state and local roads. In certain parts, roads are so destroyed that normally you can't drive anymore. Security is certainly not ensured. Is the country also capable of reconstructing or maintaining, correcting this part? I don't think so. The minister will probably say it has something to do with the finances. It is only necessary to look for these finances, but I would suggest to the ministry, the government and the coalition to take all these proposals as well-intentioned; not that we want anything else, but that we know exactly what the timelines are going on and what our priorities are in Slovenia to achieve coherent regional development. Because otherwise certain areas will remain cut off from normal development, that the economy will go back there and that young people will start leaving. Because today it's important how you get from work to home, or you can come by public transport. I have to say, in Slovenia, if you want to get from Radgona to Maribor by bus, once, twice a day, it's gone on Saturday. And then I look for transportation by car and if the road is still bad, then they say to themselves young – I prefer to stay in Maribor or Ljubljana. And this is what will not bring about the development of the regions. I would join all those who appeal to the coalition only to support this law and to see in this proposal good proposals that can then be discussed. Of course, the Ministry should also add its comments because, as long as I read the minutes of the State Council, which had a consultation in January 2015 on key issues in the development of road and rail infrastructure, it was said by the Ministry, this is stated in the minutes that the strategy will not solve all problems, that a specific action plan should be made and that some projects are overstretched, both financially and otherwise. I think that to rely now on a strategy that they themselves are talking about, that it is not exactly what it will be, and that we need implementation plans, I think that in Slovenia it is not a time limit, but it is five past twelve on infrastructure, and especially on public transport. Once again, I appeal to the coalition that we can also help the ministry to set up an action plan and to obtain funding for the construction of this infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Let me mention that the proposal for a law on the construction of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia has been made in a very wide range of experts, including with the Slovenian Democratic Party's professional council, where only 26 experts are active in the area of infrastructure, where we actually cover all the resources, from planning, from consulting work to engineering work and to the completion of each individual project. We also followed the common European transport policy in the preparation of the Infrastructure Building Act, as in 2011 Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, adopted commitments and guidelines on the common transport policy with the so-called White Paper on the future of transport by 2050, where it is a single European transport area plan. This White Paper gives ten goals, in a way ten commitments to all Member States. If I list only a few of the most important: a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by at least 60%, a shift of 30% of freight road transport to rail or maritime transport by 2030, the establishment of a basic multimodal TEN-T network, which would fully operate in the European Union by 2030, a single transport area with three pillars, a single sky, a single railway area and a blue zone in the European seas. One of the objectives is also to improve the protection and safety of transport, as well as to improve the provision of passenger rights in all modes of transport and the accessibility of infrastructure. These are common guidelines for European policy. We are not aware enough that we are living in a common country in Europe and that these common European commitments in the field of transport policy and our common objectives must also be followed. Our proposal for a law also follows these commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Minister with a team, present Members and Members of Parliament! Our country is marked by a specific geographical position that entangles us in the Pan-European transport network; and the potential of this position offers us many opportunities for the development of transport infrastructure. Good transport connections, modernised transport and logistics infrastructures are key factors in the development of one country. In this way, the optimal development of the domestic economy, including tourism, can be encouraged. We are aware that investment in transport infrastructure has a positive impact on economic growth, create jobs and strengthen human trafficking, accessibility and mobility. This must be borne in mind in setting up policies in advance. Today we have a proposal for a law aimed at accelerating the construction and modernisation of road and rail infrastructure. In doing so, I would like to point out that the proposal sets out specific priority sections that fully summarise the priorities for the modernisation and new construction of rail and road infrastructure, as already defined by the Transport Development Strategy itself in the Republic of Slovenia. Today, it has already been exposed by Mr Gaspersic's Minister of Infrastructure and also in presenting our position at the beginning of the discussion of this point that the strategy is the basis for further activities. On the basis of this strategy, the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia will provide specific activities and a time-limit depending on the provision of stable financial resources. As we are aware that solutions need to be found for fast-growing transit and for domestic road transport, we support the activities of the Ministry of Infrastructure in this area. It should also be borne in mind that transport policy is responsible for setting long-term objectives that monitor and enable the development of priorities while ensuring the financial sustainability of the system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Mr. Minister with a team; colleagues and colleagues! This law, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in the parliamentary procedure, is the most specific law in the field of infrastructure under this mandate, since the Government of Mir Cerar. Not only is this the most concrete law, the implementing law, is in fact also the most concrete document that defines certain investments that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must provide and also make by the time limit laid down in this law. As we have already announced in the Slovenian Democratic Party, these two laws, which we are considering today in the field of infrastructure, are also our main point of the pre-election programme; no matter when there will be parliamentary elections in the field of infrastructure. The first point we presented was in the area of defence. This was our proposal to reform the Slovenian Armed Forces reserve by establishing a national guard. The second point of the programme is this area of infrastructure; therefore here we propose concrete projects, concrete measures to improve the state of infrastructure in Slovenia. Unfortunately, the coalition is not even discussing today, nor is it defining our proposal, because it is likely to be in serious difficulty. However, because it is not a document, because it is not a White Paper or a White Paper, as it is called, it is not a resolution, it is not a strategy; but a document containing three specific points contains three specific elements that are necessary for realisation. For the first time, what we want to do; for the second time, by the time we do so, and for the third time, where we will get the money for it. Article 3 sets out all projections, all infrastructure projects that are priority in this law. They are listed in the field of railway infrastructure, in the area of motorways, in the field of state roads, all with names, with specific sections. The first concrete thing is to say what we are going to do in this law. The second is the construction deadline. The construction deadline is that these projects, which are in Article 3, should be completed and placed on the market by 31 December 2030. So we already have another important element, this is the period by which this matter must be made. But most importantly, because we always listen from the coalition-- where are you going to secure the funds? This happens whenever we propose a law that will have consequences on the expenditure side of the budget. Here, too, we make five proposals in Article 7, namely, funding from European funds and the European budget, the financial resources Dars is committed to modernising and building a new highway network. Here I also have in mind those assets that disappear under the table. Let's say yesterday we saw how it was to arrange and arrange an e-traffic invitation to tender, where once again certain personnel would pay money for not knowing how many bridges in Medna. The third concrete proposal is bonds to invest in the modernisation and development of transport infrastructure, then the earmarking of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure and public-private partnerships. In the meantime, practically, since this government is in power, we have been monitoring Burlesque, where we will receive funds to build a second track, or even more, or else we will be building a second track in the first place. If the Minister at the hearing says that we will not, then think about what is welcome, there are no concrete commitments; once again, this is again some projects and money disappears in the companies that are preparing these projects in friendly companies close to the ruling left option. But it's just some mode of surgery in this area. As already said by fellow Member Žnidar, this proposal was specifically prepared by 26 infrastructure experts in our party. There are quite a few already in our parliamentary group – Mr Žnidar, Mr Lah, Mr Krivec, Mr Podkrodšek, these are mayors, former mayors who know transport infrastructure in detail. However, I believe that the modern centre Party has a particular problem communicating with the mayors because there are none in their ranks. Although they won the elections in July, they did not win any mayors at the local elections in October. This is why they have a lack of knowledge in the local field, which is very important, as it is the mayors who can hold the most quality debates in the National Assembly, particularly in the field of environment, space and infrastructure. Although there are several more assets this year, it is still not enough. The minister and I have talked many times about those three points, A, B and C, as much as we need; 150, 250, 350. It is called maintaining what it is, completing what is currently being started, and, of course, new construction. Mr Minister, when it was necessary to raise your voice to sell Telekom, you said you needed 350 million euros a year to be a successful minister in order to have something to show. If we sell Telekom Slovenije, we can cover about 2 years and a half to 3 years with this purchase. But since it is more important than carrying out concrete projects that will have an impact on the lives of citizens and citizens in a positive sense, it is more important that hyenas continue to take revenge on profits from state property. If these profits are specifically directed at projects proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this law, believe me, they would do much good; not only for citizens and citizens, but also for your work, for your reputation as minister. In short, our proposal is on the table. As usual, he'll be rejected. It is essential that citizens and citizens know what we will do when we return to power. The law is ready. With us, he will wait in the drawer until the time is ripe for the leadership of this country to take over a coalition that sees infrastructure as an opportunity; that this country will be taken over by a coalition that will act more responsibly towards citizens and citizens and which will not see infrastructure as a cost, but as an opportunity for new investments. And as former colleague Lach said, all countries are now opening for tourism, less and less travel abroad due to the threats of terrorist attacks. Here we have the opportunity to modernise our infrastructure and also to open up new potentials for tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Dr. László Göncz. Procedurally, please, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Because we are nearing the end of the debate on the first law and that the Government has taken 30 minutes of time and because there have been quite a few open ones, for which this coalition party has also agreed that they can be in the right direction and that there is a good basis for further discussion, I still expect some response from the minister. I would like to ask because he is a great expert in transport infrastructure and that there is probably some position on everything that has been said; and because the first hearing is intended precisely to exchange some views and on this basis we will also come up with further steps, better solutions; however, I expect the Minister to speak. I don't think it's some populism law, it's not some marriage that shares someone like you usually have to comment on. That is why I expect, however, because the time has been largely announced that you are a minister for some questions, some of the difficulties still take the word and also the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, Mr. Minister has heard from you and will assess when he will call. Mr. Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, it has been heard repeatedly that the coalition rejects this law because it is proposed by the opposition; it simply does not. This has nothing to do with it. I can tell you about the introduction of the law itself, the explanation and the analysis, I have to say that I personally liked it very much, that I was happy to read it. I have no doubt that there have been experts, as you say, who are familiar with infrastructure. But as is usually the case in recent times, after 2008 and after the period of economic crisis, this time too, it is necessary to look at these issues through some fiscal macroeconomic framework. We have heard, and I agree with all of these, and I think that this must also be our starting point, that investment in infrastructure encourages economic growth, that every investment, for example, on the highway cross, has contributed significantly to economic growth. Of course, this contribution is not unlimited. This does not mean that if we have an extremely poor financial situation to afford a billion-dollar investment and then only on this basis will we come out of the crisis. Of course, because that means we owe each other at the same time. In this regard, it is also necessary to find the right environment in relation to each investment effort. What's problematic about this marriage is that it's not that it wants to make things right. We want the same thing. Believe me, I really want all these projects to be realized. The minister certainly wants to, they're working on it, I believe. But in the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure, I believe that even the most of their effects may be known there in some way in proportion to the money invested. This is because it is a portfolio that is highly conditional on investments, with a direct investment and if it is not, there are no effects. It is true that the Ministry must also contribute its resources and prepare certain projects, as far as it belongs to their area, as far as it does not fall within the Ministry of Environment and Space. So, projects have to be, say, "ready to go," but everything else depends on money. There is no problem in these laws today that we do not want to, of course we all want to build this infrastructure. The problem is that the concept of both laws is somehow based on a sub-menu that needs to be taken elsewhere; but these are not some new taxes, some new contributions that someone outside would give, these are actually some items that the state is already grabbing, or that it is the profits of businesses, that it is concessions, that it is excise duties. This is what the state is still taking and putting into some integral item today. From this integrated, common budget is financed by the police, financed by the military, education. If we turn this law into roads only now, of course, we will have a problem in all these areas. He used to talk to his friend Mahnic, and every week he hears how much money the army lacks. Look, then it'll be even less if we adopt this law. It'll be even less! Thus, the laws proposed do not introduce any new resources, something tangible, which means a certain amount of revenue for the budget. It was heard by our colleague Vebra, even at one of the previous meeting points, that we heard that the country had to fund a lot – as well as other colleagues I heard in this debate – the country had to fund projects 100%. As soon as we're looking for some private partners, we already know it's not gonna happen. I don't agree with that. We are, we must admit that we are a small country, that we have a small budget of, I don't know, nine billion euros and it's hard to afford a project that costs half a billion or two billion euros. We have afforded highways, but we need to know that they are still unpaid, that we still have two billion debts for motorways alone. Thus, all these circumstances lead us to the fact that, on the one hand, we must promote investment, we cannot say: we cannot do anything now. Of course we have to. And the Ministry of Labour in this field – Ministry of Infrastructure. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is preparing the State Spatial Plans, issued a single call in December on the priority of the State Spatial Infrastructure Plans and there is a large number of State Spatial Plans in preparation, but I did not then see the final report at which they are. But what I'm trying to say is that projects that are alive and that are taking their way according to some of the financial possibilities of the country. It was heard — with this, I hope that I gave you a signal that today’s meeting does not yet seem unnecessary to me, it’s an interesting topic. The challenge for each budget is how to ensure that even one that is undernourished, which needs a billion new debts a year, is how to provide as much resources as possible for the construction of infrastructure. I mentioned at the outset that we have been somehow enslaved to the economic situation since 2008 at all. If it is possible to illustrate more visually; for interest only, we are giving a billion euros for debts, I would like to see that we are not giving it up for interest, but to invest it in infrastructure, in roads, in railways. This is especially important because many times in the debates talk and why not build these motorways or not motorways for roads, railways, anything as if these funds were entirely self-evident. Some of you may not be aware that all of these liabilities used by the budget to be known in the daily field of many, if not all citizens; that because of this, I do not know, they are difficult to reconcile pensions, wages in the public sector, that we have a shortage of resources in other areas, in health care. In short, in hundreds of areas because there are no funds. And now to commit to being asphalt, let's say, before the elections, which is a relatively common practice in local elections, of course, is a double sword. I think we need to pick up some middle road here. It is true, however, that I would also like to point out that, despite the fact that we are considering every investment policy in an infrastructure, where will we get how these funds will be returned to us, that it is also important for infrastructure to have the most resources allocated to infrastructure in the long term. The 2016 and 2017 budget already provides a substantial amount of funding for road regulation. Comrade Lisec, you mentioned the overpass in Sevnica earlier, even for this overpass there are already reserved funds, I hope it will be made in this year or next year. In short, the funds provided for over the next two years are significantly higher, but of course it would probably be necessary – and this will have to be defined somehow by the Ministry in the national transport development programme or in the operational plan – to provide funding also below. But we need to know, even in 2019 and 2020, that we do not know what economic growth will be like, whether there will be a crisis again, and I have no doubt that the identification of these funds for these years, which are still quite remote, will be a major challenge not only for the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also for the Ministry of Finance. In summary, the law proposed by the opposition does not have a bad purpose, but it is unnecessary in the light of the fact that we are already adopting the strategy and other documents needed to implement individual infrastructure plans. In combination with the law that is proposed and is now under 2nd point, this is to provide certain funds, and in fact, as already stated, it intervenes in the budget in such a way as to take funds from others. That's why we won't be able to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, my predecessor has highlighted two segments of this law. First of all, he stressed that the coalition also had great aspirations for all these projects to actually be implemented, but I would say that we do not have a desire, and we saw that it was essential that this law be adopted and that urgent investment in this public transport infrastructure should begin. It's not about wishes, it's about an emergency, and this is an emergency that needs to be seen. That's essential. The same set of projects, purely from a professional point of view, also from the strategy itself, where it is clearly and precisely defined both for road works and for railways, or for short-term projects, which are short-term, medium-term and long-term investments in this period until 2023 and 2030. If I only point out because now the largest proportion and the need is in the railway area, and let me list four short-term projects: removal of bottlenecks on the Celje–Zidani Bridge, the Slovenian Bistrica–Pragersko on the D3 and D4 axle loads, which will allow for greater permeability and higher speed. This is not a desire, this is a necessity that needs to be addressed in the short term. Then the construction of the Tivol arch, it is the flow around the capital, and the modernisation of the ranking station in the Reserve. These are clearly planned short-term investments, and the medium-term investments are then further, the construction of the second course of Divac–Koper, the construction of the Ljubljana–Jesenice, Maribor–Sentilj, electrification and renewal of Ljubljana–Novi mesto and Celje–Velenje–Velenje and the connection of Jožeta Pučnik airport with Ljubljana and, of course, the long-term ones. In short, it is clear objectives that are necessary, so that this segment is clearly and precisely defined. In the second part, it was more of a topic already under the following law, because it is a financial area where the financial structure is stable and clearly distinguishes those parts of the resources that are already in the 2016 and 2017 budgets, which are included in 2018, so to speak, after the end of these commitments or those inflows into the budget itself. These distinctions are clear, they are precisely specified, even their size rank can be calculated, so that this matter from a financial point of view is completely professional and mathematically sustainable, but I would say this is already the topic of the next law that we will start just as soon as we finish this original part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz, to prepare Mr. Franc Jurša. Here you go, Mr. Gönch.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate on these two laws can be understood in one way or another, so we can also understand it as formal proposals by the opposition, but also as a warning about the situation in the field of transport infrastructure, which is certainly not pink. I believe that all the debaters so far have agreed to this argument somewhere. I would point out in particular two, three things which I believe are important both in terms of content and perhaps the national programme which, as Mr Minister has announced, is being prepared. It has been said several times and I would not like to go into this analysis that in the field of the highway cross the matter is quite acceptable, although it has not yet been completed and we still have a lot of financial obligations. Nevertheless, it is acceptable, so this situation is less problematic. The situation in the field of rail infrastructure is much more problematic, and the debate so far has taken place in this direction, so that it is probably easier to plan in law and it is harder to provide financial resources. I do not think such an approach is most appropriate. Indeed, there is no doubt that these funds will not be available or to a very small extent from the State budget, and it is therefore important that money is provided from other sources. In order to provide money from other sources, it is particularly important to be aware of the importance of transport infrastructure as such. In particular, I see the essence of today's debate in that this awareness, the level of this awareness is slightly improved, because we are simply talking about a matter that, for several reasons, directly corrects the standard of living not only of Slovenia and of the citizens here, but also of the wider European space. In short, if I take just one example, the case of the most frequently mentioned second track, we know that the interest in building this investment is relatively large outside Slovenia. I mention, very briefly, only the case of Hungary, which I know quite well, which has been extremely committed to specific assistance or to seeking assistance in this area. I know that discussions have also been made with the minister and with the expert teams, but I have a feeling that there may be some reserves in this area. But I am also aware of the interest of other European countries, particularly from this northeastern part of Europe, which are also interested in this project. So, I just want to point out that if we are aware that there will probably be no budgetary resources, then we need to focus our energies on finding other resources and, however difficult the economic situation is, there is no doubt that money will have to be sought for this, because we cannot, unfortunately, talk about some development in both the economy and tourism in the long term. That's clear to all of us. We are also talking about the effects of transport infrastructure on economic development in general. I believe that this factor is very important and not negligible. The latest data is that despite economic growth in Slovenia we create 3 000 700 jobs in one year, if I remember correctly, more jobs. This is therefore a relatively small number, a small number to be able to talk about more stable economic growth, which is undoubtedly important from a broader social perspective. Let me only conclude by seeing in the national infrastructure programme the good placement of freight transport to rail infrastructure, as this is a very important aspect [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u60	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister, the coworkers, and the coworkers, as well as the colleagues and colleagues! The key issue in the whole matter is one; this is if the state of Slovenia had sufficient money, of course all these problems would be easily and simply solved. Given the absence of this money, we just have to adapt to the situation and do things to the extent that the funds allow us. Perhaps the minister, like all of us, would like all the problems to be solved immediately, but unfortunately the matter cannot run in this direction, as I have already said, because there is a lack of funds. It is right, it is good that we are also discussing this issue in the National Assembly. This means that we are also aware of the importance of infrastructure for economic development, the increase in the number of employees, as many of you have said in your debate. Of course, we are concerned at the moment that less of these investments will be possible in this year and the following year, so that the economy, construction, will have significantly greater problems than it had during this period until 2015, when we actually used cohesion funds to build infrastructure. I am sure that the situation will be slightly better in the coming year. This also shows all the findings of past periods of European Union cohesion or funding. The motorways that we built in the past, I must say, were actually relatively very expensive. They were also very expensive, especially because local environments were trying somehow to tie up this road program and build a variety of railways, many sidewalks in the municipality, and many times from the taps came a healthy drinking water at the expense of the highway. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Now somehow we all estimate that rail infrastructure is in relatively poor condition. And it's true. We all talk, both in this hall and more, about the question of the second track. We have one light point in the field of railway infrastructure, this is the ratification and modernisation of the railway line on the Pragersko-Hodoš route. If you have not been in this region of Slovenia for a long time, I must tell you that this is a project that will actually enable the rapid flow of rail transport and at the same time build all the necessary infrastructure for road transport across the railway line. With this, we are very happy in the space where I have a permanent residence. I have to say, despite the fact that in the past we've got a highway, but I have to say that the acquisition for the entire area is huge, but at the same time I have to say that it's not a highway, that it's a fast road, and that in the past there's been a big mistake in this area because there was no highway built. Today, if there is a traffic accident at nightfall, it is a big problem how to get to the unhappy, how to save them, because the lane is simple and simply not, then also in no way possible. And what worries me is that our national regional roads and bridges are ours. We do have these in a catastrophic state, so I have to say, despite the fact that this would be an additional tax, I kind of hoped that with some additional resources, we would try to create a significantly better situation, transport security and also infrastructure for regional state roads. Given the fact that my time is somehow getting ahead of me, I'd say we have a strategy in place that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. We have heard a lot about this law, and I hope that the coalition is pleased this time, because we have brought into the procedure a law dealing with an economy dealing with some added value, and therefore I hope that you will also continue to support the consideration of this law, that you will eventually contribute to some adjustments, that this law will be adopted at the next stage and that we will reach an effective instrument that will enable the construction of infrastructure, both rail and road. There has been a lot of talk about the state of our infrastructure facilities and how difficult we are to tackle not only new buildings, but also repairs them, so that this law actually brings financial resources to enable some long-term financing of these interventions, thus also allowing for some normal planning and preparation of projects for realisation. Earlier there was a talk about major projects such as the highway being made in the past, and that they are now becoming a burden. This will not hold, for highways are being fully repaid at this time from tolls. Even more, I think there will be some 70 million profits in this year or last year that go into the integrated budget. It is precisely these sources that we propose to use further for the modernisation and construction of infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia; they are said not to be lost in some integral part of the budget. On the other hand, we have available, clearly, even European funds, of course, there is relatively little, 400 million in our envelope, but we do have the Junker package, which probably does not allow the construction of all the smaller things, but it would probably be useful, perhaps, for more updates on the railway network, perhaps even this transition from this stupid power supply that actually irritates our railway. Finally, we also have a Commissioner for Infrastructure and Transport in the European Council, who can help to make it easier to redirect certain resources to Slovenia and thus enable the construction and completion of this much-needed infrastructure. This is not so useless in terms of resources. The resources proposed in the next law also make sense and cover the construction and reconstruction of all these infrastructure facilities. If you read a little, in recent days a lot of studies or statistics have come up about how dangerous roads are than they have been in the past. I have already pointed out that the number of accidents has increased in the past year, the number of deaths on the roads and the number of injuries has increased. It is difficult to say that this is only the cause of the bad roads, but it is also one part of this, and this has been greatly pointed out through discussions in the parental committee. Thus, it all points us to the need for a law to be adopted in this direction, because the Ministry, despite its obligation to adopt a resolution, can be said to be a good basis for continuing in this direction, and the resolution has also been the basis for the drafting of this law, but the Ministry of the following operational documents has not yet prepared. It did not draw up an operational plan which should be practically two, three months after the resolution was adopted and no other operational documents. Anyone who has ever worked in the real sector or who has been mayor and has been involved in the drafting of documents knows that any such intermediate document, which is the basis for some kind of pumping, is later just an excuse not to allocate any funds below. And just to avoid continuing to lose both the resources available and not least all the willingness to complete individual documents, we have proposed an operational thing and this is the law that we have in our first reading. Which means that, through the comments that have been heard in your discussions, it can also be improved and complemented. I believe that such a law would certainly be welcome to the ministry, which would have an easier way and easier opportunity to do so in negotiations with the government when it is necessary to achieve some distribution of individual resources in the whole context. Because further, when we talk about financing these projects, resources are envisaged as dedicated resources so that the implementation of these investments can begin. I find it so difficult to accept some of the debates that have been in the direction that this is a law that is populist or that does not have to be taken seriously. Unfortunately, we have to deal with the laws that the opposition brings to the National Assembly to a large extent, to which colleague Dobovška was also warned in the debate, and the Government is actually delaying with operational documents such as specific laws to solve individual cases. In fact, it is a law that all Members of Parliament, and probably without exception, at least in some part, both committees and the National Assembly, use this topic for discussion. It is said that most of the problems are in road infrastructure, both at the local level and more broadly, railways may be a little less, largely in relation to the second track and the problem of trans-shipment in Luka Koper and the removal of this material, and most of the time we all meet with state roads that are in an increasingly poor condition. If we look at the past. From 1900 to 1906, the so-called Bohinian track was built, and in six years they built 158 km of track, which is mostly built on some viaducts, tunnels; it is said to be a rather difficult track. And we've been talking about the second track for probably ten years. I therefore believe that in this proposal of the Law on the Construction of Transport Infrastructure, it is actually through the articles that we are able to come up with solutions that will provide a good basis for addressing these infrastructure problems that we have. The law is relatively short and also gives a lot of manoeuvre to the government to define certain things by means of an annual programme. Thus, there is no need for the law to be rejected in this first reading and thus prevent the Ministry from obtaining a quality instrument that can later specifically set the objectives for which I believe they stand, as we do in the budgetary debates. It is said that we are going to improve this infrastructure, and in fact we will also allow some normal flow from those parts of Slovenia, from which access to the centres is certainly significantly more difficult. On the other hand, as before, we will also achieve saturation both on the motorways we now have built on all the major cities – this is already happening around Ljubljana – and if we do not approach to systematically preparing the documents at this time, it will continue to be harder. I still expect and believe that the vast majority of Members still agree with a law that has been well prepared. As I said, the basis was actually a resolution adopted by the Government. Perhaps there is a feeling that we have rushed the Government with the next concrete document, but after 8 months of adopting the strategy it is also normal to prepare an operational document, which is certainly the law. So I will be happy that, at the end of the vote, there will be as many votes as possible for the law to be adopted in the first reading, to upgrade it with the comments that have been made in the debate, also possible with regard to the petrol centre and any other solutions that can be acceptable, but I will find it difficult to understand that the vote will eventually be negative, because I will take it that every time you ask the Minister when he will build a road to do this in some way just a little, I will say, you are making fun of the State Council, but also, not least of all, from the Ministry. That is to say, if you are serious about when you talk about the need to build infrastructure in order to ensure certain measures in this area, then it is up to you to decide in such a case that, at least in the first reading, we confirm the law and later, clearly, we also improve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. I give the floor to Dr. Peter Gaspersic, Minister of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! I didn't get involved in the debate before, but I was counting on finally saying a few thoughts about what we are discussing today. In fact, I would like to thank you all for today's debate on investment in transport infrastructure, which is vital to the further development of our country. I think it is also more or less clear from today's discussions that we can all agree on the objective, this is how to ensure adequate long-term planning for the development of transport infrastructure. In short, it is absolutely necessary to do so, and we are all in agreement with this, but we are in some way diverging about how to achieve this goal. We therefore have a bill on the table that resolves this dilemma in a certain way, and in the Government we advocate that, as has already been done with the strategy, we will deal with this through a national programme, which will also be discussed in the National Assembly. In this way, national programmes have regulated investment in transport infrastructure in the past, and the national highway construction programme, as well as the national rail infrastructure development programme, have already been mentioned today, which is actually an even older date. This is how the Government and our ministry are working intensively to prepare this national programme. I can say that it is already in the final stage, we hope that this document will be dealt with by the Government in April and then, of course, forwarded to the National Assembly. This is how I count on him to be confirmed in the National Assembly before the summer. I would also like to say that the national programme, unlike today's proposal for a law focusing mainly on investment in road and rail infrastructure, will address all areas of transport, transport development and transport infrastructure in a comprehensive way; that is, roads, railways, air and maritime transport as well as public passenger transport or, if you would like, sustainable mobility. I am so sure that in this way, in an equivalent or perhaps more transparent manner, we will make more systematic arrangements for what is being proposed and regulated today. I would like to thank you once again for this debate today, for these proposals. I think that we are in some way united here, what this goal should be; that is, we are only different in how to achieve this goal. I think that the proposal that we are preparing in the Government will then also be addressed, adopted and endorsed by an appropriate majority in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. In this conclusion, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Ljub Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me first point out the apparent case of investment in public transport infrastructure, which was pointed out by both representatives from Desus. This is a bridge facility, because we know that three years ago, the government, with an unreasonablely high percentage, reduced funds for bridge facilities. Look, it's been three years, we're still feeling the consequences today, and these bridge facilities aren't saved today, they're not finished and they're causing a lot of economic and social damage. But, dear fellow, today should not ask questions as a member of the then coalition, governments should answer today why funds for bridge facilities have been reduced from 87 million to 9 million. The answer today should have been why the government, or the secretary, decided at that time to reduce the cost of crossing facilities in such a way. That's ridiculous! Today, look at the consequences that the economy is suffering and all the other social damage that is being done on this account. Typical example of how we stopped one segment and what are the consequences of only one piece, one segment of rehabilitation and reconstruction of bridge facilities in the Republic of Slovenia. This is an example of a small segment. Now let's just take the case that we do not follow the urgency and needs of these major transport investment projects, which must be built, what will be the consequences for the economy, what social damage will be. It's very difficult to calculate, but the funds here are enormous, enormously large. Of course, it is the task of the government to act and decide. This is the prime task of the government, and only with measures and decisions is it able to stabilise the financial situation of our country, without which this will not work. We have recognised that it is primarily or in the shortest possible time that the power is to invest in the construction of the infrastructure of state importance, to start up the engine of the economy as soon as possible and to give people work at the same time. This is the basis and also one of the essential purposes of this law that we have proposed. Both the coalition and the representatives of the government, of course with the distinguished minister, will not be jealous of anything if you arrive in two or three months with a similar or the same proposal on these parliamentary benches. Then we will not say that this law does not need to be adopted. We will be pleased to confirm it, and we will be very pleased to confirm this law, because we are aware of the urgency, we are aware of the need that the State of the Republic of Slovenia has on the substantiation of certain public transport infrastructures and also in the context of the financial crisis that we now have in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, if you do not accept this proposal, I suggest that the time to come with the same proposal is as short as possible. Whether in 14 days, or in one month, or in two months, give this time to come with your proposal, because it is very important for you who is proposing, not for us. However, I believe that this proposal has given you a good incentive, we have given you a good professional basis, and I believe that we have saved a lot of money for the benefit of all of us, the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. You've got your word. The Rules of Procedure allow us to continue to discuss within the available time, so please apply with the microphone switch, including the government representative and the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Bojan Krajnc has the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I am also joining the general opinion, which prevailed at the end of the debate, that it brought, let's say, important insights into how transport policy planning is taking place in the Republic of Slovenia, how the strategy was adopted and how the transport strategy in the Republic of Slovenia is being implemented and what follows. We have heard that the strategy was adopted in July last year and that the strategy represents the first comprehensive treatment of the transport system; not only road and rail, of which the majority of the talks were today, but also air and water. Thus, the strategy has for the first time exceeded the practice of partial regulation of the construction of transport infrastructure, and one of the panellists among the proponents has already outlined how this has been done at times, so under some other governments. People were walking around a little bit, phones were spinning a little bit, mayors were meeting a little bit — even at the time when there was no restrictions on mayors to function in the National Assembly, of course, the mayor’s influence was even greater — and the issue was being dealt with in part. This is the first time the strategy has gone beyond that. We have it, and it needs to be implemented, implemented. The question is, how? The Government has also decided, inter alia, to draw up an operational plan for the implementation of the transport development strategy within one year of the adoption of the strategy. Thus, this deadline expires in July this year, we have heard the Minister in closing that this operational plan will be in the form of a national programme, which will also be adopted by the National Assembly, prepared and forwarded to the National Assembly for adoption by the end of April. This national programme, i.e. the operational plan for the implementation of the strategy, will set out projects, stressing that it will set out projects, the necessary financial resources, deadlines for implementation, carriers and more detailed activities for the implementation of the measures. So this is what is in preparation, is being prepared, will be completed by the end of April, by which, in fact, the proponents enter this process of creating transport policy in the Republic of Slovenia. This concludes the Minister in his opening presentation, and also my opinion that the adoption of this bill is not really necessary, not because of opposition, but because of the principle of the fact that we have some procedure for adopting the acts that we need – also this bill of law is an act, you have criticised, in the meantime, that we are adopting some meters of acts, but also that your proposal is a contribution to these metrics of acts, but we do not need it, because an operational plan for the implementation of the Transport Development Strategy will be prepared in the form of a national programme to be adopted by the National Assembly. There will therefore be more time to discuss whether projects are concrete, which will be listed there. And if they do match you, they may even be consistent with those mentioned in article 3 of the bill, although I must say that I do not quite understand how you chose them, so the statement you made earlier to our account that there is only a list of wishes could in fact apply to these paragraphs in Article 3: "The operational plan for the implementation of the Transport Development Strategy is followed within 6 months by an operational plan for a more concrete implementation of individual measures for a 6-year period." And as the final point – and the debate at this point has always been about funding, and this is actually the subject of the following point, where we can hear more about how to secure funding, which is of course important, so that we can be able to do what is written in these documents, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u69	Mag. Bojan Krajnc, thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President, once again for your word. Many times today were heard the word time; but time is money. This would certainly be said by our economists, who do not listen to us this morning because they have a job to do. Time, I repeat, is money. Let me tell you something interesting. Fourteen days ago, I was at the BMW company in Germany, and there we were told that there was no point in reviewing the minutes of the previous meeting on the invitation for the college they had every week. This does not exist with them because everything they agree on in college is done. That's interesting. Of course, it would be very difficult to bring this into our policy, but perhaps some small segment of today's session. Hold on, all my colleagues, everyone in the opposition welcomes the resolution adopted last year, that is a fact. It is also a fact that much time has passed since this resolution. Too much. The economists would tell us that time is money, that's a fact. And we were all in the economy once or for the most part. As we speak today on the left and longer as this point lasts, we are somehow increasingly recognizing that we have a common goal. The fact is that the proposal put forward by my colleague is a proposal that can be added. It's an opportunity, and it's a time. However, I do not understand today's debate of those who reject this and say that the documents will be waiting for us at these tables for some time. I repeat what I said at the outset, I think that this point is extremely important for the Slovenian economy, that it is important for the development of the economy, and above all it is of paramount importance that we please that part of the economy, of course we have in mind the construction that could be done with these investments – of course we are developing the country, the regions – and we have also developed jobs for businesses and, consequently, for citizens and citizens. I therefore call on everyone once again not to have a bitter taste if this proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party is on the table today. I have already said this before today that we have been in this National Assembly for almost two years and that there will be only a few more vacations, and once again the mandate will be over. And I'm asking you, if we don't have a bad taste in taking pictures just in the National Assembly. I'd like to, but I don't have to be in the picture to take pictures of myself in front of some highway facility and some other thing. This is what citizens and citizens expect from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! Today, this debate was quite a long one, and if I analyzed it like this, it was probably useful for everyone, both for the opposition, even for the coalition, although in the coalition we are aware that we have a plan and that somehow this plan around the maintenance and construction of new roads is linked to the 2016 budget and, of course, also to the 2017 budget. However, the list of wishes that the opposition has somehow cited is long, but we must be aware that there is no money at this time, even though money is being sought, and we can say, after some programme for certain secessions, that it has already been found and that the Government is also preparing certain things for the Ministry of Infrastructure. For example, I can say that things are also concrete on the road to building a third development axis in the direction of Koroška. We also have things set up there so that things could start in 2019. However, we believe that the situation is very difficult and that sometimes the safety problem is that the number of accidents is also increasing. About this, I think no one doubts and that accidents are also due to the state of the roads we have in Slovenia. I also agree with some debaters who somehow argue that long-term investment is making the situation worse. Of course it is, but at this point we can work, whether the government can work, in those amounts, or in the available money that it has at its disposal. I agree that the national programme will need to be approved as soon as possible. It has also been pointed out today that it is on our roads, not only bad, but that the number of freight traffic is increasing and that it will have to be diverted to the railways sooner or later, but we also find that the railways are in very poor condition and that transport on the railways will also need to be modernised. This also applies to Koroška, of course, because in Koroška we have these accesses or railway links very badly. One part is on the side of Koroška in Maribor, but on the other part, from Dravograd, Velenje, where we lost the railway already in 1968, this matter is missing. We're counting on building a third development axis to make up for that. Of course, there will be a need to rebuild regional and other state roads, which, of course, are in very poor condition, in addition to these fast roads or motorways we need to fence and rail tracks. Plans have been made, and I hope that in the coming years, what she has actually drawn will come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you. Our proposal is this: the law, the publication in the Official Journal, this probably means at the next meeting, within one month of the regulation, where there must be an implementation plan with the name of the project, the value of the project, the financial structure, the constant readiness of the project, the timeline and the project carrier. That's our plan. The plan of the government or coalition is: we have a strategy adopted, we will now move a little faster with a project for which even, I think you do not know what it will be called, because I hear such a national programme, some say an operational plan, I hope that we will not adopt a national programme once by summer, where we will say, and in a year we will adopt an operational plan. I hope that it will not be so that the title of the document is already known and, above all, that all this matter, which is envisaged here, is known. In short, project names, values, financial structures, project timelines as well as carriers. And I'm going to remind all those who have a problem with investment and financial design. The second draft of the 2016-2017 National Reform Programme: "The International Monetary Fund's research to increase public investment in infrastructure by 1% of GDP in three years increases GDP by at least 3%, creating new jobs and a favourable business environment for future economic development." But we have a problem with giving incentives, both substantively and financially, to these investments. The other thing is, you said, what if we were in debt? Ask the people what we're in charge of right now. They have no idea, except for everyone else, he'll probably say he's retired. They have no idea. However, if we tell every citizen who is capable of giving 100 euros at an annual level — for example, a million citizens, 100 euros, 100 million — they will be happy to give exactly the means for this, this, this and this. Citizens would also be pleased if I were to be in charge of a third development axis or a second track as part of what could be financed from this. But borrowing is not even a debate of this law. What I will talk about next is that there is a lot of resources in this area of transport, the infrastructure where money is collected – excise duties, vignettes and so on – and it goes into an integrated budget, and then it is spent on everything else, but not for the roads of money. Something small gets Dars, which he shares again, has 70 million profits at the annual level, which we don't know where he put it, the Directorate has some of its money, something in the integrated budget, and the story is spinning again, and we don't even know. Here we propose: funds from the European funds and the European budget, for the next period we have 400 million plus Junker's package, let's get on with this package, not wait for the big ones to pick up, but we'll have bits left for some sort of bridge facility. The funds Dars is making, I've already said, Darce's money, most people would say it's a variety of strategies and resolutions and anti-group fences that we replace in a year. Purpose in the budget on the basis of the next law – I will talk more about this next time. Purposeful resources, not hk, in the integrated budget, and then we fight for such a different road. And the funds are supposed to be made on the basis of public-private partnerships, which are, I'll allow myself to say, the wet dreams of all ministers, so that maybe we can encourage some private person. But you know, when I listen to the discussions of these coalition MPs, certain laws drive away private partners: whether they don't like the name and surname of this partner, or the country where it comes from, or whether it's another problem. In short, it says nicely, which means, it's not about any debt, we're not taking anybody; we're not taking scholarships, we're not taking anyone, but, of course, the fear is great if the system law proposed by SDS comes into the National Assembly. And that's why you'll be against it, and maybe because of the Minister of Finance, who says to all the projects, "No, we're saving!"
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, again. After the Minister’s replies, I did not see that the law was unnecessary or that it made sense. They only point out that the Government will draw up an operational plan or a national programme, we still do not know which dictatorship is the right one. There was more to the feeling that these two marriages did not go in the context of time, since the government was already preparing something. We have warned last year when the financing of the second track from Juncker's package was rejected, that we expect the Government to come with an operational programme that will clearly contain all these infrastructure projects, which are also covered by this law of speech. The Minister now spoke of a broader national programme or operational plan, as it will also cover airports, etc. Let us be serious, because in these cases it is not an investment where the country will be directly involved. The airport of Brnik is no longer owned by the State, Luka Koper has a concession. These are not long - term problems that we will be dealing with in the National Assembly. We have come with an operational plan that is actually going in that direction and in those projects and facilities for which, last but not least, the country is responsible as the manager of all of this: motorways, railways, state roads, where we also have clear carriers. Previously, it was said that this operational programme or operational plan would have to set up carriers. I hope we have them now. It is clear who is responsible for the individual segments of our infrastructure. It was said that we brought a list of wishes to the National Assembly. Yes, I hope you've read our marriage. In fact, the law summarises all the projects that the government has also adopted and contains all the projects referred to in the last ten years have not been implemented. Our law also has a continuation, which the strategy and the operational plan do not have, to continue in the law, which also provides financial resources for the implementation of this law for the construction of transport infrastructure. So we didn't go out with some kind of like law that would just say some things to talk about it, but we made things more concrete. As previously stated, in the individual articles all the necessary content, including timelines, are distributed, including the conditions under which a project enters the final set, who chooses it, how the procedure is carried out. And in the next law, how do we provide the source to ensure that these projects are not last implemented; not tomorrow, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, but in a certain period of time, which is predictable. Both for the budget and not least for implementation, for operators and for all those who deal with the operational later. If we wait for a strategy, an operational plan, a national programme, which will already be called, no one will know when, in particular, things will start, because we will only talk at a given moment about how this will be financed. From what I've heard from my coalition colleagues, you'll only be able to determine the carrier. I hope it's being heard: we have a national road carrier! This is a Directorate that is state-owned, which must carry out the projects that we decide on. We still have Dars on the highways, which is also a state-owned company in a sense that has to do things. We also have a public company on the railways so far, and I hope that these carriers are clear to all. Does anyone think that we're going to sell the infrastructure and then we're going to be looking for carriers for individual projects? It has been repeatedly pointed out that if we look at comparable practices from other countries, everywhere this basic public infrastructure is in the country's domain and the country also provides adequate funding. Not "ad hoc", but in the long run, with some predictable resources, with predictable procedures from putting into space to building and that's what we're doing with this law. Your national programme or operational plan has not yet spoken about this. I hope the Minister will indeed bring this operational plan to the National Assembly by the end of April, in line with his promise. However, given that we are awaiting an assessment of the eligibility of the second track already about six, seven months from the deadline, I doubt that this plan will be available to us by the end of April.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much. No more, there's time once in a while, and there's no more time. [[advertising from the hall]] I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. The draft law was tabled by a group of twenty-one Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-one Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Ljub Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The main and basic objective of the proposed law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia is to provide a stable source of funding for the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia in the future. The current law is aware of two sources of funds, which constitute a dedicated resource for investment in transport infrastructure, namely the annual road passenger duty and the concession fee of Luka Koper, which belongs to the Republic of Slovenia. With this proposal, we propose new dedicated resources exclusively intended for investment in transport infrastructure: part of the annual profits of all companies that are mainly owned by the State and whose activities are mainly in the field of transport and logistics or are users of national transport infrastructure, payments for existing, new and acquired concessions in the field of transport infrastructure, charges for the use of public rail infrastructure, compensation for real service or building rights on main and regional roads, funds from the sale of real estate in the field of transport infrastructure, compensation for extraordinary transport, penalties for traffic offences and part of excise duty on the use of energy used as motor fuel in transport, which are set at 10 % of collected excise duties as a source for modernisation and construction of infrastructure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall determine the list of undertakings referred to in the third indent of this Article within thirty days of the entry into force of this Act. Within the same period, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall also determine the share of the annual profit intended under this Act for the modernisation and construction of infrastructure. The appropriations relating to the adopted budgets 2016 and 2017 shall be fixed as appropriations from 1. 1. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. We also propose that funds under this law may be spent for the following purposes: current and investment maintenance, financing of projects included in the national budget development plan in the field of transport infrastructure, and financing of projects listed in the Transport Infrastructure Act in the Republic of Slovenia. We propose a law extending from 2023 to 2030. This law provides additional resources for the development of transport infrastructure of around EUR 500 million per year, allowing on the one hand a stable source of funding, while on the other we provide coordinated modernisation and reconstruction of transport infrastructure in the coming years, but also, of course, the start-up of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u80	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government is aware that the efficiency of the transport system is an important factor for sustainable social development, improving the mobility of the population and contributing significantly to economic development in all areas. The lack of sufficient financial resources for investment and investment maintenance in transport infrastructure has been affecting us for several years, which we all know has also negatively affected its state. The poor situation of this transport network is causing high costs and insuring the transport of persons and goods. Taking note of this fact, for the first time in the budgets adopted for 2016 and 2017, for the first time in several years, we have provided sufficient funds for investment maintenance to the extent necessary to stop the further deterioration of the state of the road network. However, in addition to existing sources of funding that are not sufficient to implement all the necessary investments, additional financial resources should be provided for the establishment of an effective investment system and for the investment maintenance of the transport network in addition to existing sources of funding which are not sufficient to carry out all the necessary investments, which will allow for multi-annual planning of investment projects. In view of the state of the road infrastructure, we estimate that investment maintenance for state roads would require approximately EUR 200 million at annual level to complete the reconstruction of this infrastructure, which is in that poor condition. These funds are also necessary for the implementation of the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which we are preparing at the Ministry, and also follow the guidelines of the Transport Development Strategy adopted by the Government last July. It should be borne in mind, however, that, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, all revenue from the budget is used to cover all expenditure, unless otherwise provided for by the Public Finance Act or the law governing the implementation of the budget. It is therefore one of the fundamental budgetary principles, which is the principle of the integrity of the budget, by which it is intended to prevent the direct or automatic linking of certain budgetary revenue to certain expenditure, thus preventing only certain direct budgetary users from being entitled to certain, i.e. already pre-reserved benefits. In view of the fact that we are faced with the accelerated deterioration of transport infrastructure, in particular road infrastructure, we are also aware that there is an urgent need to provide additional financial resources that will allow for medium and long-term planning and investment maintenance of road infrastructure. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has committed, through its national reform programme for 2016 and 2017, to provide additional financial resources in 2016 and 2017 for the implementation of investments, investment maintenance on the main and regional roads network for those two years, in addition to the funds already provided by the budget, in 2016 at EUR 10 million in respect of the budget adopted and in 2017 at EUR 21 million in respect of the budget adopted in 2017. It will provide an additional €45 million in 2018 in view of such an increased budget for 2017. Since the activities to provide the necessary financial resources for investment and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure are therefore in full progress, we believe that there is no need at this time for the consideration or adoption of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I've decided I'm gonna be here all the time. Hello, everyone! My acquaintance, Matthew Feguš, says that we have failed, but we can offer the best and sustainable products. I quote: "Slovenia could replace missed opportunities with products that would replace garbage." It's the owner of a small company that makes top-notch seating furniture. Now you're going to say what this has to do with anything. I'm not gonna read what I wrote. The debate has so far made it very clear that we have outdated, long-term transport infrastructure. A year ago, I read a quote that says 70% of our bridges need to be rebuilt, 50% should be restored immediately, if not, we will have to close them briefly, and there is no money. This refers to a report on the state of the infrastructure in the Republic of Germany. In short, what do I mean? Infrastructure; of course, we live in the age of technology, as my Professor Strehovec said, infrastructure costs. We have an integrated budget where we know what the main items are. The main items are debt repayment and pension servicing, and then social transfers. That's the way it is. Of course, we welcome in the United Left some logic of the proposal that some dedicated funds will then be deliberately relocated inside, if I may say so, of the same sector, but of course we are not so naive that there will be no retransference within the budget. We have some practice of this second track, and I think to myself, when I explain it on behalf of the United Left – I'll just use that word – a jerk, because for 20 years now it's been known what the story is, and literally the rhetorical minister is walking around, sometimes you feel like he's begging around other countries, for something that should be our basic development project. With the so-called golden fisscot, we have somehow tied our hands to the account of all citizens and citizens. This proposal in practice, given how we have a cut budget, means that somewhere else we should be taking or that something should not be passed over. We already have – this so-called citizen cut to the extreme – a deficit and a reduction in resources in health, education, social transfers and the lack of serious handling of some kleptocratism practices that we know in many such sectors – I like to talk about information technology, and the next item will touch on the areas of public procurement in health. Mr Lisec spoke before me about the plan; the SDS plan on the one hand, the plan of the government coalition on the other hand When a man who even pursues a professional life of infrastructure development and regional development, I can say that both approaches are at least partially wrong. [[…]] We should think a little more seriously about what experts call the area of intermodality, infrastructure in its entirety, not just transport, based on what relief Slovenia has, what density or dispersion of settlement we have, what some countries might have done to us – or Scandinavian, or if you want Switzerland, also Asian, New Zealand, Canada and so on. Then we should start talking seriously about the sources and, of course, coming from this – if I had more time here, I would list 400 projects that are necessary – to set up a timeline. The law that the United Left would want, which should be written down by the Home Working Body of the Infrastructure and Space Committee — certain parliaments — should be the law that includes this, which would include in the preamble what intermodality we want, where we will finance all of this and the timeline of implementation. This would be a minimum standard for me to adopt under such legislation. If I touch a little bit more of what we already have at one of the preceding points, tolling and highways. We know well that we don't take all the money from those who actually destroy highways most. If they are very skilled, trucks can avoid, they say, up to 60, 70% of the toll they should pay. But now we're probably going to have some sort of colloquial, some new toll, UBRAT. European funds. With European funds, which are now much smaller for us in this envelope, we are often overly petty and timeless, if I may say so. Juncker’s package — everyone who is seriously involved in financial matters is said to be relatively naive. Someone's just gonna come by, and they're gonna untie the scrotum, and they're gonna give you the money. In the area of infrastructure, my dears, perhaps in some key habitats, the largest venue density yet; yet, elsewhere, not because you will not actually have such a rapid profit on the infrastructure itself. It has already been mentioned by the Commissioner, our people in Brussels and elsewhere, which we do not know how to include to a satisfactory extent. Where are some salvations? One solution is in taxing on sustainable co-uses, what I have been trying to do lately: smart taxation. You know, we talk here mainly – of course, we would like to have better roads so that we can use our good cars to get around more comfortably. Wait! Hello! Let's say no; no, it's not like Slovenia will be based on it, we won't pollute it like that, we'll go into another matter. If you really want to talk about it, you need to make this kind of revolution in your head. No one touches, like, Dars ratios: Directorate for Roads. Mr. Krivec was talking about how much money there is left for Dars, they'll say no. But that's what you're looking at. After all, it's some kind of unified infrastructure, ours. Just as we have an integrated budget – this would be very supportive – we could also have, if you want, an integrated transport budget to express ourselves in this way; at one end, more to collect trucks, domestically, and some of it to regulate bridges, regional roads, roads of state importance and so on. That would be kind of a thought that would go this way. Mr Lisec has also spoken, I don't know, but every citizen has so much. See, a very nice example, because we gave the railways almost a billion, about 900 million went, and if we consider the means of wireless rail management, better logistics – you talked a lot about railways, you probably use them a little bit – where does this sound like a citizen? Is it because the route to Hodosh is electrified that I'm getting to Budapest any faster? When are we going to solve these few problems to save 20 minutes on our way to Vienna? We still have no passenger connection with Italy. This passenger link to the coast, we almost forgot about it, because we're a little bit in the right place for this traffic, which is, kind of easier to figure out. Why? If these links were appropriate, of course, there would also be a flow of money that could be channelled into better infrastructure. The matter is very simple, we need to think about how in some unit of time more comfortable, less stressful you get from point A to point B, whether you're traffic or information or you're human, and then you're smartly taxing it and returning it back to infrastructure improvements. Most of these key companies are state-owned – I have to repair the speakers in front of me, Jože Pučnik Airport is in the country-state ownership structure, only not Slovenia anymore. These are such considerations that we do not somehow engage in this debate or speak to myself on behalf of the United Left, but I hope that we will finally open these debates and go into some concrete implementation solutions. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In Nova Slovenija we support the increase in funds for the modernisation of Slovenian transport infrastructure. The reduction in funds in recent years for this purpose has caused the situation we have today and this situation is at the brink of disaster. The development of transport infrastructure is so important for maintaining the right conditions for the lives of citizens and for the functioning of the Slovenian economy that we must no longer close our eyes to the bad situation and simply refer to the difficult situation in the Slovenian budget. The situation in the Slovenian budget will always be difficult. We are asking the ruling coalition here whether we have secured investment, annual depreciation in transport infrastructure. In New Slovenia, we highly doubt this and point out that the policy of maintaining, restoring and modernising Slovenian transport infrastructure is not strategically guided. Due to the lack of strategic planning in this area in the past, the transport infrastructure system in the Republic of Slovenia is extremely underfunded. The discussion on the second track did not encourage the Government to present a serious model for the implementation of this project. This points to the political inactivity of the government and the coalition behind it and its inability to perform key projects for the Slovenian country. Christian Democrats at this stage draw attention to some of the open issues that arise when this bill is being considered. Firstly, in extending resources to finance investment in transport infrastructure to integral resources, we must also maintain our attention to the question of who will bear the consequences of reducing integral resources. Secondly, a certain part of the dividend as an intended source raises the issue of the stability of this source, since the dividend can vary and is dependent on the company's performance on the liberalised global market. Thirdly, the source of concession fees in the field of transport infrastructure is very limited, as such charges are paid only by airports and by Luka Koper, which have been taken into account so far. Reducing investment in transport infrastructure may at first sight seem like saving, but we note that neglecting investment in infrastructure brings a lot of additional costs and losses that are reflected in different ways. Firstly, reducing opportunities for the development of tourism, transport and other activities. Secondly, the reduction in the warranty period, for example for the sale of cars, applies to the same cars in Germany for 7 years, in Slovenia for 5 years. Why – the answer is clear. This, of course, results in the passing of the costs of repairs to Slovenian citizens who pay unacceptable high taxes in Slovenia and therefore rightly expect/expect a better condition of roads and railways. Thirdly, low utilisation of the possibility of rail transport. Fourthly, leaving annual depreciation in transport infrastructure requires us to correct the situation for past periods, which is linked to even greater costs than if investments were made across the board. And fifthly, unfortunately, neglecting transport infrastructure also brings a large number of accidents and, most tragically, loss of life. Christian Democrats miss a thoughtful and long-term vision of investing in transport infrastructure. We also lack awareness of the importance of slow investment in the conservation and modernisation of Slovenian roads and railways. We see the bill as a welcome attempt to awaken developments in this area. In New Slovenia, we will of course support the proposed amendment to the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u86	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Already at the previous point, we have identified the importance of infrastructure for the development of the country, due to the multiple effects – economic growth, the construction industry, which needs to be restructured to build motorways, railways and everything else. The point is that the Roman Empire has already developed on the basis of known roads, aqueducts, viaducts and everything else. And the Roman Empire collapsed because it didn't invest in infrastructure because it didn't support roads and it didn't build new ones, and now we're in front of such a breakthrough. Where to provide financial resources? Of course, we can get something from the European Union, from all these funds, which have already been mentioned several times today. The problem is that the financial perspective started in 2014, and we are not yet drawing funds from this perspective. So we're not successful. This is because such projects do not go according to the principle of neoliberalism, maximizing profits, but have broader social impacts. It is about acquiring jobs, developing the domestic economy and developing domestic businesses. It is about thinking ecologically, because only such projects, which are environmentally and properly placed in space, create the future and make it easier to obtain funds. It is about thinking about the useful use and use of energy, because energy is what leads to the future, how to use this energy and, of course, restructuring the whole society into a new society, a carbon-free society and a society of the future, where the interests of each individual can be realized. It is that the integrated budget, on the one hand, limits everything, but I believe that opportunities can still be sought. Where are those flaws? The point is that if we take away others from whom within the framework of the integrated budget, who should we take? We know there's a shortage of education, police, defense and everything else. So we have to look for funds elsewhere. It's just if we're in debt. I think we can make a deal, because now money is cheap. The money is large and such projects that bring long-term multiplier effects can be successful. As far as privatisation is concerned, we must note that similar cases, including in developed countries such as England, have not ended well. England, that part of the railway infrastructure and public transport it privatised, is now taking it back because the experiment was unsuccessful. And then, of course, what is most often mentioned is private-public partnership. Days ago we had a consultation in the State Council where Dr. P. Damian warned how expensive the project of private public partnership was. I have highlighted another element of how much corruption is possible and how much potential there is for such projects, and that it is often a matter of private gain, public risk and public money. In view of everything else, I believe that we can be exemplary, if not in the Scandinavian countries, but at least in the neighbouring countries; Italy, Austria, builds on a lot of infrastructure, because you know that this is important for the progress of the country and also for tourism, which has already been mentioned. It's just that maybe we're doing this on purpose, because we see that we can't sell the economy or we don't want to sell it, and now the second step is that you can sell the infrastructure. There could be a lot of profits here. And then step three, and then he sells what the public administration does. These are monopolistic markets and of course the interest to buy something on the monopoly market is very great. Maybe there's a hidden interest in selling it all so someone can make a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, everyone! At the same time, the proposal for a law on the construction of transport infrastructure introduced new amendments to the current Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. The proposaler, the SDS Group, proposes that in addition to the resources already in place for investment and maintenance of transport infrastructure, additional resources should be set up. The novelty includes a provision that part of the excise duty on the use of energy products used as propulsion fuels in transport should also be allocated for these purposes, i.e. 10 % of the excise duty collected. Despite the fact that, according to the proposaler, this solution has no direct financial implications for the budget, we do not agree with this assessment in the modern Centre's Group of Members. The funds currently flowing into the integral part of the budget would be defined as earmarked at the time of adoption of this proposal, and thus would no longer be part of the funds allocated to the annual cut in each area. In this way, the other budget users would be indirectly deprived, and the Ministry of Finance estimates that if 10% of the expenditure was spent on road infrastructure, this would mean a reduction in revenues between €90 million and €100 million for the integrated budget. It would therefore be in line with the budget adoption practice to expect the proposer to tell which of the other budget consumers could take these funds. In the framework of its financial plan, the Ministry of Infrastructure has already defined certain earmarked resources, namely an annual road transport vehicle duty, Luke Koper’s concession fee, and it also acquires funds from an integrated budget which has been substantially increased in the 2016 and 2017 budgets, so that at least some regular and investment support is provided. However, as we have heard from the Minister of Infrastructure, the Government has already committed itself to and placed in the draft national reform programme to provide additional €10 million or €21 million in this year's budget, as well as additional resources in future budgets, in search of solutions. Therefore, with regard to the law that we have dealt with under the previous item, I can say the position of the Group that we will not support the adoption of this law, because the adoption of this amendment would mean the reallocation of funds within the budget, the proposal of the Act does not propose any new resources, so it refers to existing sources of resources which we have heard, in some cases even uncertain, are the resources of individual companies in their own country, which means that we are still talking about a volatile resource, and also to the manoeuvring of other budgetary users, which is why, as stated and said, we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a continuation of the previous debate, and we are also proposing a way of financing investment in transport infrastructure. We all know that the financial perspective 2007-2013 has expired. From this title, it is clear that resources should also be sought if we want to ensure, over the next few decades, some normal construction of new infrastructure, as well as some normal maintenance of infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. Given that, following the adoption of this strategy, the following documents are not adopted within a timeframe such as those laid down, and that there is also a stalemate, it was also necessary to approach some more proactive operation and this law is also intended to provide additional resources to ensure that these infrastructure facilities are actually implemented. A few colleagues before me said in the debate that such investments were meaningful, urgent and that, through their multiple effects, they also greatly help other sectors within a country. As we can see, in the new financial perspective, only 400 million are earmarked for direct investment in public infrastructure, so there is a slightly higher need for maintenance and some greater dynamics in the construction of transport infrastructure. That is why the aim of this law is to provide additional resources, to ensure that these resources are stable and to finance both reconstruction and the development of new transport infrastructure, in particular those that allow some strategic importance for the country in different aspects: the development of individual industrial areas, tourism and other activities, and in particular to allow for some normal access for all citizens to all services. The law itself follows the principles of cost-effectiveness in the use of budgetary resources, transparency, responsible use of public funds and stability and the long-term financing of the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. This is also important because within the budget these dedicated resources are provided over a longer period of time, we are talking about at least 10 years of funding these projects. It is clear, however, that the budget must also be consolidated within the whole and also to find the reserves required by European legislation. The current law, which aims to finance infrastructure, already has two sources of funds dedicated to investment in transport infrastructure. This is the annual road traffic duty that we all pay at the time of registration of the vehicle and the concession fee of Luke Koper, which, of course, belongs to the Republic of Slovenia. We are proposing additional dedicated resources through the new law. This is part of the annual profit of all companies which are predominantly owned by the State and operate mainly in the field of transport and logistics or are users of State transport infrastructure to a large extent. In one part it is understandable that part of these profits generated by State infrastructure are transferred or intended to invest in this infrastructure. Secondly, payments for existing new or acquired concessions in the field of transport infrastructure, in the case of motorways this could happen, as was the case with the airport of Brnik, where a certain source occurred through the concessional relationship and is still owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The same could also happen in the case of motorways with an appropriate concessional relationship. Thirdly, a utility for the use of public rail infrastructure. Fourthly, compensation for real service or building rights on main and regional roads, which are also collected and going to an integral part of the budget. We propose that they are intended to build and rebuild state infrastructure. Then the assets from the sale of real estate in the field of transport infrastructure, reimbursements for emergency transport, penalties for traffic offences and, clearly, also part of the excise duty on energy consumption used as fuel in transport, which is foreseen as a dedicated resource for modernisation and construction of infrastructure within the existing rates of excise duty on motor fuels of 10% of the excise duty collected. The Government should establish the list of undertakings referred to in the third indent of paragraph 1 of this Article within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, and within the same period the Government should, clearly, also determine the proportion of annual profits in a given year intended under this Act for the modernisation and construction of transport infrastructure. The funds referred to in the ninth and tenth indents of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be designated as assigned funds except from 1. 1. 2018, this is because both budgets, for 2016 and 2017, have already been adopted and would therefore interfere with the budgets already adopted. We also propose that funds under this law may be used for the purposes of both current and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure and for the financing of projects included in the development programme plan, so-called NRPs in the field of transport infrastructure. We all know when we adopt budgets, we have one large table with probably thousands of projects defined in these NRPs as necessary for the construction of transport infrastructure. Thirdly, clearly, the financing of the projects listed in the Law on the Construction of Transport Infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, which we discussed earlier. Notwithstanding the fact that the law in force provides for implementation by 2023, this amendment also proposes an extension of this law until 2030. Through both laws, additional means of transport infrastructure development are actually provided at approximately EUR 500 million per annum, allowing a stable source of funding and, on the other hand, coordinated modernisation and reconstruction of transport infrastructure in the coming years, as well as some continuous planning of individual projects. In view of the fact that this is again a matter of first reading of this law, I expect that we will hear a number of additions during the debate, but I expect that you will support the law, that you will give it the opportunity to complement and improve it in the second reading and in the Committees, because the debate also in the previous law has somehow found that no one is substantively opposed to the adoption of this legislation, which is, last but not least, proven through the previous discussions held in the National Assembly, both at the home committees and in the debate room, and lastly, by the Members of the coalition, which are constantly referred to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport as regards modernisation, improvement of roads. That's why I expect you to support this law at least in your first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u92	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposal for the amendment of the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure also had good intentions, because, as all of us do, it is clear from the multiple requirements for urgent meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure on the subject of poor roads and road infrastructure, but as with the previous proposal of the same applicants, we cannot support this proposal in our Group. In the Desus Group, we estimate that the extension of resources to finance investment in transport infrastructure to integral resources can be a two-way sword. The proposal lacks an indication of who will bear the consequences of the reduction of integral resources. In this respect, neither does the applicant state that the draft law has no implications for the state budget. In the Desus Group, we estimate that the determination of part of dividends as an intended source is not appropriate. The dividends depend on the company’s performance on the market, which means that it is not a stable income, as profits can be once more, twice less or not at all. Nor did the applicant indicate which company he sees as liable to pay dividends to the trust fund, which, according to our assessment, is slightly illogical. As far as the source already exists, this is the payment of the concession in the field of transport infrastructure, it is our assessment of a very limited source, as only Luka Koper pays it. As I have already mentioned in the introduction, the Desus Group, although we understand the intention of the applicants, will not support the proposal of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u94	Madam Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! As with the first presentation of the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, I can only find this time that the proposal for a law on the construction of transport infrastructure and the amendment of the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure are linked by a set of laws that wants to solve the problem of road infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, which we all strongly agree that it needs to be addressed more effectively and given more attention, since it has an important impact on the multiple pillars of the development of our society. However, the proposer, particularly through this second law, dealt with at this point, effectively refers to the question of how to spend, where to take them, and not the equally important question of how to replace these funds. As the Social Democrats can rightly expect, in view of the current budget composition, that such an intervention in the integrated budget would mean a pruning of funds for social, education, health, science, and because we do not know whether this means that funds for social transfers, maternity leave compensation, pensions or anything else, such a bill cannot be supported. As has already been said, we do not support the first or the second, nor will we support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Mrs. Vesna Vervega ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say that everyone, at least in his heart, acknowledges that the debate on this agenda item as well as the previous agenda item is extremely important for this moment, especially for the future, for the future moments of our country and young generations, and in some way thank you for this initiative. Of course there's always a problem with money. Some, as I pointed out at the previous point, are telling us our decisions in the 2004-2008 government mandate to invest too much in transport infrastructure, even once I heard one of the colleagues of the United Left Group that we had made a mistake to draw, as they say, the highway to the Slovenian-Hungarian border. I'd like to see a hero say that, say, somewhere in Pomurje or Prekmurje. If we did not build a highway to the Hungarian border and turn it over to traffic or purpose on 14 August 2008, then – as you know – a financial and economic crisis struck in 2009 – we today would not have a highway connection with Pomour or Hungary. So much for these decisions, which of course were not simple, and there were also very heated discussions here in the National Assembly, when we discussed the guarantees laws, many of them proposed to the National Assembly by the then Finance Minister Dr. Andrej Bajuk. We also listened to sharp criticism when we also started in this National Assembly in October 2006 to consider the law of guarantee for the electrification of the railway line Prague-Hodoš, this is an extremely financially demanding project. Otherwise, I don't know why they didn't electrify these lines when they started building it, because we all know that there are some upgrades, and that's an upgrade, and it's more expensive than if the electricity in this case worked simultaneously with the construction. I think that this project was financially difficult about €350 million. At that time, of course, we adopted the guarantee laws in the Tolars in 2006. I'm interested in the following: here we have competent experts from the government, and according to my data, we pick up from the tolls in the so-called road fund about 140 million euros – I'm rounding up the number, probably not correct. I want to know how and what projects we've actually invested this 140 million in and where we're investing them. Besides, because we like to compare ourselves with neighbouring Austria, I want to make a comparison with toll collection. Let's see, for 2013 and 2014. Austria has 2,000 kilometres of highways and fast roads, toll roads, Slovenia 773 kilometers of highways and fast roads. Revenue from tolls from freight transport – because this seems problematic to me personally – revenues from tolls from freight transport in Austria amounted to 1.1 billion in 2013 and 1.2 billion euros in 2014. What about in Slovenia? In Slovenia, we recorded €166.3 million in revenue from freight tolls in 2013 and €188.6 million in 2014. I sum up a little bit. Last year, Dars collected about €350 million from tolls, of which around 54% contributed freight. Now I say, of course, what we all know, and thank God that we have a call for a more modern toll system for freight transport, and I hope that this project will also come true, is expensive enough to be good enough, and I say that the existing toll system is financially ineffective, as it cannot be collected as much money as it could with an appropriate system. If Slovenia had the same efficient toll collection system for trucks as neighbouring Austria, it could raise between €100 million and €150 million per year. That's why I talked about numbers earlier, made a comparison of Austria : Slovenia, taking into account, of course, the length of toll roads in Austria and Slovenia. So, this is an eclectic example of, let's say, money is lying on the road, all you have to do is pick it up. That is why I think we have a lot of reserves here, but of course we cannot wait as we may at the beginning of Juncker's mandate and his announcement of the establishment of the so-called Juncker Fund, when we all waited and we said, yes, now we are saved, but now there will also be a large basket of money for Slovenia and we will be able to finance the reconstruction of road and rail infrastructure from this fund. It won't work. Unfortunately, it won't work, because this 315 billion Juncker Fund is basically private capital, Juncker, if I may say so, has only prepared a handful, just a little bit in this 315 billion-dollar basket. Now everyone has to answer the question of when and in what cases private capital will decide and invest in Slovenian transport infrastructure. Earlier, in one of the positions of the parliamentary groups, it was said somehow in the sense that we should not – as it were – invest too much money in transport infrastructure at the expense of the social state. Yes, of course, when it comes to budget, there must always be some balance, there must be some balance, but I say, thank God we have a 2nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution, which says that Slovenia is a social state. I'm saying, thank God. But what does that mean? This means that the social state must be financed. As a result, or indirectly, we can say that by investing in transport infrastructure, we indirectly finance the social state by restoring transport infrastructure. Not only do we start new investments at the time of construction, which increase gross domestic product, but we also give a better business environment with a good transport connection to the Slovenian economy, which is the only one that opens up new jobs. I therefore say that the financing of transport infrastructure is indirectly financed by the social state. That is why this issue is of great importance. I expect, but I guess I'm still too naive to be able to get the support of the coalition in the first reading, and to be able to improve it in the second reading, more concrete if necessary. Since I have a feeling, colleagues and colleagues, that we are all working together, such as the National Assembly, and even more so the executive branch of power, we are not doing enough. We're not doing enough! What are those projects we've already done? What is tangible at this time in this mandate? You'll soon be two years away from sitting here in this term. What have we done to make something better for our citizens, to improve road safety, to improve the financing of the social state and so on? It will be necessary to lay down accounts a little bit and also to ask ourselves, self - criticism, whether we, and even more executive branch of power, deserve a month’s wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you very much. For a procedural proposal, he asked for the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Look, we've had Mrs. Minister lying for a month now – now I'm babbling my own, I'm going to work in the office – and now Mr. Nova Slovenije is lying that the United Left said how we were against building a highway against Prekmurje, which we definitely didn't say. We have different ideological positions, different views, the social state is building social infrastructure, which transport infrastructure is definitely. Please excuse me, sir, for he was definitely lying because the United Left never claimed that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. A replica? It's not procedural, but it can be procedural. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Because she's also a colleague of Dr. Franz Trček used or abused a procedural proposal, which is already a parliamentary practice. Comrade Franjo, if you misunderstood me, I apologize, but on your part, it is often heard that the government has overheated the economy in the 2004-2008 mandate by building the infrastructure. Not today, but in the past it has been – it can be seen that if anyone has time in magnetograms – you have also disputed the construction of the so-called Pomur highway, which is probably where we are driving. It hurts if that's the way we fight here. Certainly it was not my intention to degrade you here now or whatever Yes, of course we have different views, but of course I did not lie. [[…]] This is your view, which I do not last respect, and that is why we are people in Parliament with different views. I say again, and I conclude that if we did not then draw the highway to the Slovenian-Hungarian border, we know that in 2009 the crisis struck, we would not have it today either.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u101	Both cases involved an abuse of the procedural proposal. I would not want any more procedural proposals, because also, Dr Trček, it is likely to be an abuse of the procedural proposal, I suppose. Am I wrong? No, no, no. I suggest that the motioner proceed. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has applied for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Let me explain a few details, because this is a misunderstanding of our proposal. Our proposal for a law has no financial implications for the budget, such as some references by Desus and by the SD. It is very clear that the source of funds linked to the budgets already adopted for 2016 and 2017 are to be determined from 1 January 2016. 1. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. This is said to have no effect on the budget itself. It is true, however, that it has an impact on the composition of new budgets since 2018. By then, however, any government will have to take certain measures to follow the sustainability of the budget itself and to follow the international commitments made to us by the European Union. For, in fact, Slovenia is excessively indebted and is in charge of those purposes that do not contribute to the financial return back to the budget. Most of it is in public consumption. From 2018, when a new budget is to be drawn up, Slovenia is also in charge of building infrastructure, transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. This will also bring a significant proportion back as a return, as a financial impact back into the budget, because such incoherence as the budget is now being adopted does not go on indefinitely. Debt of the country, I don't know from 9 billion in 2008 – and then the secretary at the Ministry of Finance will fix me, what is the exact debt today, but I think we're approaching about 40 billion. In these few years, that's the difference! We've grown a lot, yes, but we've grown a lot less. This is not sustainable in the long run. That's how you need to be aware of that. Then also as there is no list of companies that will separate part of the annual profit. This list will be made by the government, no matter what. The government will do it because it imposes on her the law. Dars, DRI, Slovenian Railways and so on. And the share of the profits that will go exclusively for purpose is determined by the government. And the height of the stake. This is the task and responsibility of the government. Of course, it will also be necessary, I would say, to shrink further beyond 2018 certain public-purpose spending. Mr Škoberne mentioned earlier that there will be no scholarships for education. There are already no scholarships, but if we save something in the area of education in additions, I would say what is a very wide academic area; in fact, there is a reserve and possibility, so I believe that these measures will also have to follow that budgets and public finances will be sustainable even after 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Vesna Vervega has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Respectable, the aim of the proposed law is to provide an additional and stable source of financing for the reconstruction of transport infrastructure, and I certainly agree with that. It should be ensured as soon as possible, but I wonder whether this can be achieved through the proposed amendment of the law. The Act currently in force on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure provides for two sources of financing as dedicated means for the implementation of investments and maintenance of transport infrastructure, which are annual charges for the use of road vehicles and port Koper concession fees. Of course, other additional resources are proposed in the proposal for the amendment of the law, and you could only look at this last one or one of them, which is part of the excise duty on energy consumption used as fuel in transport. Therefore, as part of the existing excise duty rates on motor fuels, 10% of the excise duty collected is foreseen as a dedicated source for modernisation and construction, of course from 2018 onwards. According to the Ministry of Finance, if 10% of the excise duty were to be applied to road infrastructure, this would mean a reduction in revenues between €90 million and €100 million for the integrated budget. This would, on the one hand, increase the volume of funds for transport infrastructure purposes, of course for the individual budget user, the Ministry of Infrastructure, and consequently reduce funds for other budgetary users by the same amount. The Minister of Infrastructure has repeatedly pointed out that the current funds allocated to transport infrastructure are not sufficient; they are not sufficient to carry out all the necessary investments, and estimates that investment maintenance for state roads at the annual level would require some 200 million euros, pending completion of the reconstruction of this infrastructure. Of course, the Republic of Slovenia has long faced with the fact that it does not have an adequate system of integrated transport and transport infrastructure development planning. It is also intended to provide these funds somehow in the National Reform Programme, which we have somehow already in the National Assembly or in front of each other, provided in the budget – for 2016, 2017 additional financial resources are provided, i.e. at least 10 million in 2016 and from 20 million to 40 million in 2017. However, a step forward has been taken in some local areas this year and a half. It is in the area of three municipalities, which I am covering as a Member, that some projects, which have been open for several years, at least five years, have begun to conclude. It is a road or construction work in the village of Zgornja Kungato, where, after five years last July, they started rebuilding a road worth 1.4 million euros, and this year they intend to open or leave it on the market. By moving away from the construction of these five years, there was considerable economic damage, at least for the Kungota municipality, because on this road it planned to sell parcels for residential, commercial purposes, which of course failed. Also after a government visit to Podravje in March, that is, on March 9th, this year, a kind of approved overlay of a road in the municipality of Pesnica, about a mile [1 km] long, worth EUR 300,000. We expect such an invitation to tender and to begin parts before the summer. Also approved is the rehabilitation of the Počehova-Zgornja Kungota road 330 metres long and the estimated 100,000 euro road. There may also be projects related to the national development programme. Of course, as my colleague Tillen Christmas said yesterday, we'd like to move more, faster, more quickly. However, I am sure that it is necessary to think carefully and take a step forward, first with short-term plans, and then find a more stable way of financing. I hope and I believe we can do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u106	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues, esteemed secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance! When we talk about this law, which we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, about the provision of resources for the building of infrastructure in the future, we face a lot of problems. Of course, it would be much more prudent for me to look at these two laws and first talk about the means and then about the projects. My friend Ljubo said before, I won't be able to say it right now, but Slovenia is in charge of over 30 billion, I'm afraid we're approaching 40. Because I come from the countryside, let me say that in the countryside it is very wrong if the farm is responsible for beautiful Christmas or New Year's holidays, that this is very wrong. Of course, if he's in charge of investing a barn or a machine, that's positive because it's giving that farm development. Many times I fear that in the country of the Republic of Slovenia we are in charge of public spending, and this debt is already much too much to the detriment of the present citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are now living, and of course the heads will be even more painful for those of our craftsmen who are coming after us. We have had many financial ministers in the past, of course the Minister is two years old or one year old, and the Minister is leaving, and no one is talking about the Minister anymore, but we are only talking about public debt. We also had a minister once who said that the smallest wage in the Republic of Slovenia would be thousands of euros, of course, on that day probably someone possessed this story, and on the second day was reality, and today is the reality that some people are very difficult to live in the Republic of Slovenia. When we talk about how we will finance the necessary infrastructure, we must clearly pour clean wine on how to get to the means. I said earlier that most likely another minister would run into a hard nut, this is at the Ministry of Finance, of course, with a minister who cares about the entire budget. The desire or needs of the Minister of Infrastructure to present them to the Minister of Finance understands it, of course, for as long as they do not reach the finance. Then the matter stops and the minister listens helplessly, so the coalition probably with the doors closed and the opposition in this great hall that we are unsuccessful. I kind of understand the finance minister, the secretary of state, when things stop. But I don't understand, I don't know what I'm afraid of because today we're talking about infrastructure; whether we're afraid of building infrastructure or we're afraid of those people who might be locked up with tentacles to get at least half of those assets that would be put up to build such railways, highways and roads. Sometimes I feel like we are looking for additional resources on the financial side in the Republic of Slovenia – if I compare it with a water line – but we do not hope to block the pipes that are leaking to us. Of course, when searching for additional water sources, we are often uneven, fighting each other, and the water at the lowest point is easily draining. Of course, if I turn this water into money, it's money — for many years. But there we do not hope to be cramped, let us allow ourselves to tell citizens and citizens that it is not possible to build new roads and railways. It's easier for us than for us to freeze, plug in those pipes and that spending of the taxpayer's money that's leaking unjustifiably. The proponent of the Slovenian Democratic Party did not go to the state budget, which was adopted for 2016 and 2017, but those resources – excise duties and penalties – could go from 1. 1. 2018 in the clear use of this infrastructure building. Why do some people find such a situation to be pleasing? Because Dars' profits, excise duties, are melting in the state budget like last year's snow. And none of us know whether it's on the left, whether it's on the right, whether it's on the road, whether it's in pensions, whether it's in education, or in health care. On the other hand, in 2014, a new perspective began, with 400 billion in it, of course, I am afraid that we have not touched much of it yet. We are in 2016 and almost 2017, and our mandate will be completed, the new government will arrive and 2020. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, despite the fact that this bill is now on the side of the opposition, the Slovenian Democratic Party, that it is worth talking about, of course, on which segment to upgrade it in good faith, that we will build some Slovenian roads and motorways in the future. Let us not forget that we are not alone here, that this is not only necessary for Slovenia, for the Slovenian economy, it is also important for all the members around us, the European Communities. But I am certainly afraid that we do not have the greatest support in the European community for one reason – our indecisiveness in both financial and infrastructure building in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you. All in attendance, all in attendance! Together with the proposal for a law on the construction of transport infrastructure, we have also received an amendment to the current Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. The proposal assesses that this proposal should have no financial implications for the state budget, which we do not think it holds. The implementation of the proposed solutions would have a fundamental impact on the budget already adopted and would also have effects on future budgets, since in a simplified argument this means that the funds currently flowing into the integral part of the budget would have been defined as earmarked resources and thus would no longer have been part of the resources that are otherwise intended for the annual cut-off in specific areas. Of course, in order to establish an efficient system of investment, investment maintenance of the transport network would be required in state budgets, in addition to existing sources of funding, which are not sufficient to carry out all the necessary investments, to provide additional financial resources. These funds are essential for the implementation of the national transport programme in the Republic of Slovenia and are prepared on the basis of the already adopted transport development strategy. According to the state of transport infrastructure, the Ministry of Infrastructure estimates that approximately EUR 200 million is required for investment maintenance of state roads at annual level. Given that the strategy has been inter-sectorally coordinated and adopted in the National Assembly and that the Ministry's activities in the preparation of operational plans are fully under way, we believe that these commitments will be further secured within the budgets and that commitments in the strategy will also be implemented in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Where do you get the money to build these needed roads? It is true that the situation is now such that we do not have the money from the integrated budget or to maintain these roads that we have. However, it is also true that Dars has some profits every year, as well as some gains in railways, but it might be better to go ahead with planning these roads by building those that will have the greatest impact on the economy, and by growing economic growth, there will be more money in the budget, new jobs, and it would also be good to take advantage of the possibilities of connecting with neighbouring countries, to plan a road together, and in this way – not only in this border band, but also in the interstate common corridors – to provide funding from the European Community. It is true that in this financial perspective there is no money for so-called hard projects, as in the previous financial perspective, so much for infrastructure, for environmental projects, that there is more money for so-called soft projects, which is sad, but yes, it is necessary to do some revision of all these projects already started and to solve those bottlenecks and to find a possible new way of funding or by having Dars issue some bonds – Dars has a permanent annual income – credits for the construction of motorways will be paid in the next few years. Then what? Whether we wait for that period to come, then we will put again a few years into the space of certain projects, or whether projects are feasible or not, or a transport economic study positive or not, depending again on the current political power, where the funds will be invested, whether we will really start with a vision and strategy. Once you calculate how much a certain road brings in the long run, you can also find the necessary funds in some way if you know that these funds will return in due course. If the Canadian Prime Minister is in charge of building the infrastructure, only to expand the economy across large volumes or the country's surface, to expand development, to prevent Slovenia from finding money to build the infrastructure that is in such a geographical area, when others are practically forcing us to increase traffic, freight, in particular freight transport, which could also be used to charge more tolls because the profession says that we still have a few reserves in freight traffic compared to to to tolls in neighbouring countries. And if freight traffic increases significantly every year, there will be more money. It would also be possible to calculate how much money will come in the next few years. We are indeed in charge of things that would not be necessary if they were good hosts, both for pensions, for social transfers, for repayment of debts and so on. It would be better if we were in charge of building an infrastructure that brings funds back in the long term, not only in the long term, but also in the medium term. It is necessary to find, have vision and strategy, but if this is true, what we read in the journals, that 4 billion of us take away corruption every year, then it is not strange and we will never have the money to build infrastructure. Once in a while, there will be a need for order in this area. That is how I think that with the right will, smart planning and possibly additional debt – only a calculation of what it brings us in the medium and long term is important. We know that the current European economy is moving production back to Europe from distant places where they moved years ago due to cheap labour. Now it's coming back, and there's a lot of interest in new building sites and after the construction of different companies in our country. Renault is also returning the cliché back to Slovenia. According to my information, those who are engaged in foreign investment at the Ministry of the Economy say that it is of great interest to foreigners. But it's like we don't need it. It is easier to take credit, while it is still being given to us, we do not need economic growth, new jobs. We have such legislation that we drive foreign investors away instead of attracting them. Even those who are behaving in every way and who want to be with us, we try to get rid of them. We do not even look at the conditions in the neighbouring countries that attract them, in any way they want foreign investment, new jobs, we are doing the opposite. How much longer? Sometimes a person would cry when such a high-quality investor comes and creates new high-quality jobs with us, and some envelope with a role has been in the drawer of an official there at the Ministry for half a year. At times, such ones have been replaced after a rapid procedure or have done worse to such officials. We don't, we don't. It's like we have a coin of money, and when we need it, we make it so much that we can spend it. I don't think so. The Slovenian Democratic Party does not have a magic wand to say now, there is a lot of money here, but you are building, and we are proposing a few ways to build from the small with the wisdom of building, in those parts where the economy will return to us as soon as possible. Logistics is a case like this. If we look at the neighbouring countries, Austria, Hungary, Croatia, how they went to various logistics centres, industrial centres in 2008, 2009, they are now employing hundreds of thousands of workers. All this cargo or most of it goes through Slovenia, on our roads, on our railways, or more slowly on the railways, but it comes. I think the train's still going a little faster than the ship, but much faster than it is across Slovenia. Foreignly, in our neighborhood, they can make new jobs out of this, create them, and we don't need them. How much longer? These two laws that we have presented today are an attempt, and so are they. to speed up the ministry's activities. I've told the board several times that I feel sorry for the minister when he needs to maintain 6,000 kilometers of state roads, but he only has enough money for three. How will he save everything he has to and will satisfy all political appetites with this money? It's hard. Not to mention ownership issues on municipal and state roads. We're just sweeping it under the rug. Countless miles of municipal roads are also located in private lands, as are parts of the highway. And we know how many municipal decrees on the categorisation of municipal roads have already been annulled by the Constitutional Court and that investors, both private and residential, as well as economic facilities, do not get a building permit because they do not have access and have to obtain the services on the municipal road from private owners. This takes time and discourages investors, and we haven't done anything. Geodesists say that just to measure land for municipal roads and state roads, it would require 2.2 billion euros because it is said to be over 20,000 kilometres of unsolvable municipal roads, owned by the unsolvable. Some mayors also gave initiatives to the State Council, but we had one session there for a few hours, and the situation is as it was. Only in the field do investors cross when they want to obtain a building permit and do not have access. How we're gonna find money there for the basics we have to solve. And it's all hit by investors, especially strangers who can't explain what kind of barn we have. Not to mention the environmental permits we need everywhere. He's already asking their representatives if you have an environmental permit for this zone. If the answer is no, they don’t ask any more questions because they don’t have a year and a half to two years to wait for this permission to continue. But here we don't need money, it's not about that much money, it's about the clever nonsense we've heard a few times today, we don't do anything about it. In the neighborhood, they have been so easy to resolve and the rules have been in force for 50 years without change, and we have not been able to arrange for 70 years – now, in their country for 25 years. It's not all about money, it's a lot, but even if there's money, if there's rules like that that can't be done, you can't spend it. It's more of a problem with us. Of course, everyone looks at money, but there are many such projects that start, regional, state roads that are financed by municipalities at the beginning, adopt implementing spatial acts, finance projects, and at the state level, the guardian of that project is identified as the designer, and for them two are the money, and then the matter stops. And we have these projects in the hundreds development agenda plan, from 1998 to today. It's all right! But it's no harm to the papers, 100 pages a year to write these projects for which money will never be. Can't we make an order here? So, if it's willful, there's a way. But I'm afraid there's no will, but there's gonna be a time soon when it's gonna have to be enough and when we have to find a way, or people will put us on the shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I'll start with a tweet. The leadership of the Social Democrats in Luka Koper and the president of this party, Minister, Vice-President of the Government Mr. Židan wrote, or his pear service: "The successful business of Luke Koper is in the interest of Slovenia and its economy." What does that mean in practice? One minister of this government has apparently mentioned an arbitration agreement, i.e. access by sea, their Members, after at least discussing, among other things, the second track, which even the minister saw as necessary, is not in the Chamber, and will eventually press the button against this law. Once again, "the successful business of Luke Koper is in the interest of Slovenia and its economy". One is words, the other is actions. And I'm not saying that this law would save everything now, but it's a very good foundation. I would like to point out once again: we are at first reading, in second reading, we can do a little bit of friction, or about the content of what we add or about finance, because I see that there are some concerns, we can still change. And I will continue with the government's wishes and encouraging words they write, and then in practice or earlier, the government falls or in practice disappears. "Slovenia will seek to boost economic growth through public investment and the promotion of the environment for private investment in the next medium term by gradually raising the level of public total investment above 20% of GDP." And against this law! If they write what I have already written, I will repeat again for certain people, "after a survey by the International Monetary Fund, increasing public investment in infrastructure by 1% of GDP in 3 years increases GDP by at least 3%". And we are smart in this National Assembly, officials are doing their job, ministries by their own way, Dars by their own way, the Directorate by their own way, and so on. And all we have is what? There's a resolution, a strategy, a study, a work plan, an operational plan. If we just look at how much money we spend on infrastructure and road and rail infrastructure for studies, then we have a problem when we don't know how to decide – those who are supposed to be decision makers – we have a problem. But there is no problem for those who do these studies, strategies, plans and so on because they earn well. With the country to do business is a golden pit for every company that comes into this concept. I spoke earlier about the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023, which, unfortunately, I still believe will be realized someday, where the modernisation of the rail network, the modernisation of the state road network, the priority development axes and the additional highway programme are foreseen for some 12 billion euros. Even if we double this in our good Slovenian manners, 24 billion, because obviously we Slovenians are unable to rationalise the costs themselves, but we prefer to get multiple vows that live on the basis of these investments. Well, say, 24 billion. I said earlier that unfortunately in the period 2007-2013 we did not know how to agree and say exactly about these infrastructure projects and these infrastructure projects, but we will do everything we can and fight for European funds, but we have gone about spinning. Once I was at one dinner with the Czech ambassador, she asked us, tell Slovenia the 5 priorities you have. And there were five of us from different parliamentary groups, and we're a little snorkeling, we're a little scratching, and there was this silence, and we said, we don't know. Each government, when it comes, first thinks, then when it wants to do something, whether it is the end of the mandate or whether the government falls. You won't believe it, the Czech ambassador like from the cannon: this, this, these are priorities, everything else is secondary. I told you when we had a chance to do this. In short, if we say 24 billion, let's say the European perspective behind us to save a lot of things, but not all is too late now, because in the next period we have 400 million plus the so-called Junker package, for which we are still waiting, whether this package will also show up in actual form or just some of the desires of individuals within the European Union to provide funds for their contributions. You know, one mayor doesn't even apply for a project if he doesn't get at least 50% of the state or European funds. And if we count back 24 billion to give us half of Europe, we would collect something ourselves. These are the two laws they have gathered together. Let us leave aside the public-private partnership that I said before, whether we fear it or not, or whether we know how to carry it out, or whether we go in such a way that these investment costs not only double, but even triple. In short, I have already started with this topic that these two laws are not being taken by anyone in the other area, and the problem is that in the area of transport infrastructure, there are so many contributions in the field of investment that fill our national budget when the Minister comes before the National Assembly, and he probably wonders where these funds went, which they would otherwise want to be earmarked and which they are not. And DRI has problems with them, and Dars has questions about where the funds went and everyone else. I will start with the three questions I raised last October; one was with regard to excise duties on fuels, with regard to the collected funds from vineyards and with regard to the collected funds from registration duties. I wanted to get the information – thank you Minister for very specific information – how many of these funds were collected between 2010 and 2014, because, of course, there were no data yet for 2015, and I hope that at least the Minister already has them. Answer: "According to the data of the Ministry of Finance from the implementation of the budget was from 1. 1. 2010 to 31. 8. 2015 from excise duties on energy and electricity collected EUR 5 billion 491 million." Then everything it represents. I know it's not all about road and rail infrastructure, it's about investment, it's about 5.5 billion. And I'm not going to go down today into how corruption takes our money, but 5.5 billion. "In accordance with the provisions of the Excise Act, the above-mentioned excise revenue belonged to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, like the rest of the tax revenue of the budget, is intended to finance general public spending, which means that the State provides a certain amount of services to the entire population and the economy". Fuel excise — don't we know? Roads, infrastructure. How much did the secretary get back? Maybe if the minister has the information, I'll be very happy. Resources from vineyards, from 2010 to 2013 and from 130 to 155 million at annual level. So in the last 5 years, 700 million euros have been raised. What happened to those 700 million, what did Dars do, what did anyone else do? Then we have a collection of fees at the time of registration, which bothers our citizens most when they ask themselves why, again, there is a duty that I don't even know where she's going. I wish I'd gone on purpose! And in 2010-2014, €566 million. In short, excise duties, vignettes, registration fees – 6 billion in the last five years. How many of these new state roads, improved rail infrastructure corridors, motorways and all other projects do we have? I mean, if someone told the Minister of Infrastructure that this would leave his money, he'd probably sign it right away, but there probably isn't a finance minister who would give him such a blank reward. So please, next time we talk about how, when we put in the road, we take it, let's ask ourselves how much we give to others where we take the road and what we lose with it. Earlier, 1% of the investment – 3% of GDP – had already been said. Let's not talk about economic and other growth. I had already given an example from my congregation, what it means to have a bridge on a state road crash so that we can shut down the congregation and not even get to school because it is a connecting road, let alone an economy with any of it. I have here some articles, one from 2015 and one from 2016, which are very interesting. "Because you will retreat to large holes on our roads in the spring and Minister Peter Gasperšič will continue to cheer for a petrol cent," which could probably also be part of these laws if the coalition decides to give a green light at first reading, and then through second reading we decide to give this as a benefit for all these projects, "remember that the country spends more than a third of the compensation for the use of road vehicles for the current needs of the budget." More than a third of what is meant for road infrastructure goes elsewhere! 600 million, 200 million of which go elsewhere. Figure out what could be built in your immediate surroundings in the area of railway and transport infrastructure in these five years. "Where 50 million rises" – this is from an article that there will be no mistake, "even if we take into account only the compensation collected for road use, we find that the country does not spend about 50 million euros on road network maintenance, but on other budgetary needs." I mentioned Dars before, 70 million — where did they go? There's probably some Bermuda Triangle at a certain ministry and certain institutions that give this money to someone else. I said earlier that I hope that the ministry, even if you don't give the green light today, will accept as soon as possible, whatever you call it, a national programme, an operational plan or some other ruckus, so that you will primarily evaluate it financially, but not say so, we will build it in the coming years, and then it won't be for any good bridge from these fairy tales. Article 2 reads nicely: "The sources for making the investments referred to in the preceding article are..." We're just looking at this, and I believe that the minister would add something else, as I said before, a gas cent, maybe he would take something away, and he said, "O.K., let's put that in the integral budget, not back into the road and rail infrastructure." But, well, here we have welcomed that funds such as traffic offences and part of excise duties from the consumption of energy used as propellant fuels as the means of destination are determined from 1. 1. 2018 forwards. So not on the chorus, from today to tomorrow, but let's leave some more time and see what and how. If the minister had been a minister for this – given that it is increasingly obvious, at least as reported in the media, that summa sumarum would have been even higher. Don't make me repeat what I said before. Minister, the easiest thing to do is to adopt this law, the regulation, it says what we have to do, the implementation plan, and we can say, here, with 1. 1. 2017, even if we wait a little while until within one month of all of this, with 1. 1. 2017 we already have everything planned, not that we will be up to 1. 1. 2017 used to make new plans, new programmes, new analyses and in practice no shovel will be planted. I am monitoring this agony about the third development axis, especially this northern part, when we have to say that every time we open an article on this content in the media, we get a new analysis, a better option and a better path, but of course it is crucial that nothing is done in practice, the shovel is not planted yet, and if the minister – I hope that this mimic of yours holds that you will interrupt or that you have interrupted it not only in the area of the third development path in the north part, but everywhere. I think that your officials, if you give them instructions today that within one week they'll be searching all the papers for the last five years, you'll probably get so much paper that together with your secretary of state and probably with some director of the department you won't take it into one room, and if they already exist at the ministry of so-called thinking rooms. I propose that you put some of the most intelligent and operational staff there, and I believe that within one month they will do to you what is called a regulation and an implementation plan. To conclude, give a green light, it will be quicker if you do not give a green light, and the Minister, as soon as possible, come with some operational and concrete programme to this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I was going to say, "Matthew Vrančar Erman, Secretary of State."
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I would like to respond to some of the information that has now been presented with regard to the integral assets or destinations for maintenance or investment in road infrastructure and which I cannot agree with in any way. First of all, as far as integral resources are concerned. Integrative resources of the state budget are not intended for anything that could or could be eliminated with a left hand, but are intended for the purposes for which it is jointly agreed to be provided by public funds; from schools, social programmes, individual transfers to households or individuals, to providing investment in health care, investment in other areas, as well as for expenditure in the field of transport infrastructure. In the current budget of this year and for the following year, 57 million and almost 58 million integral resources are allocated for regular maintenance of roads and 55 million for 2017. This is, compared to past implementation, 7 million integrated funds were earmarked for this purpose in 2014 and 6 million in 2015. Therefore, we have earmarked more than 50 million additional integral resources for the ongoing maintenance of public roads. In addition, an additional 20 million funds for investment maintenance of transport infrastructure, road transport infrastructures are allocated to integrated funds in 2017, and these are only integral funds, and there is still a need to add dedicated funds. The appropriations, annual levies for motor vehicles and concessions from Luke Koper shall be allocated in full to transport infrastructure. It is true, however, that it is stipulated by law that they can be allocated for road and rail infrastructure and that in the first year of validity the law should be reserved for railway infrastructure only. How these funds are distributed between rail and road infrastructure depends on the programmes pursued by the Ministry. For example, in the adopted budget for 2016, 87 million are earmarked for investment maintenance of road infrastructure and 88 in the adopted budget for 2017. If we count all funds to be around 145 to 150 million, the difference is intended for rail infrastructure. This year is essentially the first time in years that the earmarked funds are fully earmarked for investment maintenance and no longer for current maintenance, as was the case mainly in 2014 and 2015. Taking these data into account, I can see that, within budgetary options, we also give priority to the maintenance of transport infrastructure on public roads. We insist, however, that a balance must be sought between all the needs to be financed from the state budget. For this reason, we oppose the intention of individual sources. With regard to the additional proposal of the source, which is mentioned and mentioned, this is part of the company's annual profit, probably dividends, but these are already part of the budget of the integral resources of the budget. And there's another observation about the debt. Like other integral budgetary resources or spending rights, the debt is not intended for one or the other, but is intended to finance all integral expenditure, from pensions, social transfers, transfers to public institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me stress some additional aspects in this law on the provision of financial resources. On the one hand, this law also accelerates the activities in the preparation of the documents themselves, as if we are looking at that actually prepared investment documents for larger projects are practically running out. Or, to say the least, for the last two years, there's only one concrete road study on the agenda. The other actually something operational hasn't even happened lately. The financial perspective 2014-2020 follows. We know that for two years now we have been behind us and that from this title of the financial perspective, the new financial perspective, so far no funds have been exhausted. I believe that these funds are not threatened to be exhausted, but I would say that we will be waiting for the last moment of the year, I don't know, 2019, 2020, because we could practically give the economy a certain amount of work and, of course, earnings already before that. Then these resources, which are additionally listed, are not so small. They are quite extensive, very large, but decisions have to be made. If, say, I mention the concession fee for the highway network, we can talk here in terms of the amount of funds, I don't know, 2 billion and a half or even 3 billion. In short, this is about a lot of money. If I make a comparison with the airport’s controversy, because we have also given concessions, the airport is still owned by the country, and I believe that services are now better at the airport than they were in the past. I would say, therefore, that there is nothing wrong with the granting of concessions and that these funds, which are not small, can be used for faster investment or faster provision of funds to invest in state and public infrastructure. Then there are Dars bonds here, even if Darsa's bonds are sold, this does not go into public deficits or public debt, because Dars himself is exempt from this. There's a billion-and-a-half rank here. These are large funds, and in doing so, those major, key, most urgently needed infrastructure solutions could be addressed. So there's quite a few of them that give you a chance, but you just have to make decisions. I believe that these decisions will soon be necessary and that we will not be able to avoid such decisions. We therefore stress that the time aspect is also extremely important here, and with one emphasis that, with all those resources, the resources linked to the already adopted budget are not to be passed on to 2018, as is repeatedly mentioned in the 2016 and 2017 budget problems. That's not how it works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. She has a word, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Get ready, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. As I have already said in the position of the Group of Members, we do not believe that we will support this law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure submitted by the SDS party. I repeat myself that I do not see the need to adopt this law. In the next explanation of my position, I will try to explain why I feel that way. The fact is that in order to establish an effective system of investment in transport infrastructure as well as in the system of maintaining this transport infrastructure, it would be necessary to provide in addition to existing resources that are not sufficient to carry out all the necessary investments, additional financial resources to enable the implementation of the planned investment projects. In this respect, let me mention that the Government has already taken action and has committed itself to providing additional financial resources in the budget: in 2016 and 2017, the Government will provide additional financial resources to finance investment in transport infrastructure, namely EUR 10 million in 2016, EUR 21 million in 2017 and EUR 45 million in 2018 in view of the increased budget for 2017. Also in Desus, as I have already said, we are aware that, due to the collapse of transport infrastructure, these additional financial resources will have to be provided, and I also point out that I support the Government's decision in this regard. Finally, I note that the Government and the Ministry are speeding up their activities to provide the necessary financial resources for investment and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure, so at this point I believe that there is no need, I repeat, to adopt the proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u120	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. I will also repeat some of the debates in this sense in that we cannot simply adopt today's law or the law that we have at this point because of the limitations arising from the very contents of the law and, of course, the limits imposed by some fiscal framework, budgetary rules, the principle of integrity. We've heard a few more explanations from our colleagues about where these test funds are supposed to come from. If I do a little bit of work on this item: part of the annual profits of all companies that are owned by the majority of the countries, payments for existing new or acquired concessions in the field of transport infrastructure, utility for the use of public railway infrastructure, reimbursements for emergency transport, penalties for traffic offences; in short, these are duties that the State is already collecting and going into the integrated budget and then in the light of the current policy of the State to all budget consumers. This means that if we redirect these funds for a specific purpose by means of this law, some others will be deprived of their resources. Why is that important? It is important because today we are talking about roads, about state roads, maybe a little less about highways, even though there is talk about highways, but there we need to know that highways are in good condition to build new ones. But what I do want to say is that at one of the previous meetings we discussed other issues in this country, which are also due to the lack of funds; either it is a defence, or it is a salary, a social transfer, a pension. In short, those who want more resources from the state budget or want earmarked resources are few. I agree to build as many roads as possible, as many railways as possible, to asphalt, but we need to stem from these restrictions that I have described, that is, we must not take those that are equally needed to provide certain functions of the state. There was something about major infrastructure projects in the debate, and I must mention the second track. We also had an extraordinary meeting of the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee on this subject and discussed a proposal for financing a second track. It turned out to be very interesting that even for the second track – to remind me that, according to some estimates, it is estimated to be a billion and a half euros, our budget is heavy 9 billion – is not in fact from different applicants, regardless of political colours or even some professional public opinion on where to get these funds. We've heard of Dars' profits. If we ask Koroška, Belokranje, Lower Styersko, we would rather use Darsa’s resources for roads — and I agree. I believe that the company is intended to do so, either for Drazence-Gruškovje or for the southern part or for the north part of the third development axis. In short, there has been a study that would best be used to build a second track, making it more than obvious that we are in awe of where to actually find these funds. Today we have also heard debaters say that everything must be financed by the state. I mentioned earlier, our budget is relatively small in terms of these investments, so I agree that the least sought on the market is also for such infrastructure projects by private investors. Today I read an article on transport safety, which shows that Slovenia is somehow on average somewhere in Europe. By the way, I have seen that Belgium is still in Slovenia, so that discussions on where we are can be very relative. As far as this is concerned, I am quite realistic, I believe that it could be better, and I am more optimistic with regard to the budget set up and with regard to today's promises and assurances in this regard. Of course, when we adopt the documents announced, this is an operational plan for the implementation of the transport development strategy, and we expect to somehow track down all the following events that we can expect, so that, if we make sure that this infrastructure, which is envisaged, is not built, we can always knock on each other's sleeves. There was also a debate that we did not even know what was going to be built. Much of this is reflected in the existing and adopted budget. There we have items in the NRP that have the resources, which means that their implementation is foreseen at the time of the construction of this budget or at the time of the implementation of this budget. So the construction of these projects can be expected in 2016, 2017, etc. or at least the beginning of the construction. So the law for the reasons described is, in particular, because it may not even be a law on the identification of resources, but rather a law on the reallocation of resources, so it should actually be appointed, and because it is unclear to whom we should take them, because there will also be some political debate and some political dispute about who we took them from, because of this law I cannot actually support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Matjaž Germany. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Hainz. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! This law is simply a result of that first law that we discussed earlier, and it is a logical continuation. As I said before, the main three elements in the previous law were: what do we want to do, when do we want to do it, how do we do it, and this law provides certain funding from additional resources. It is now provided primarily from two sources or two indents under the existing law. We are proposing further, so that I really don't understand the coalition, I really don't understand a government that defends on all the weights the additional resources that we can provide and get under this law. Finally, for citizens and citizens to be safer on our roads, to finally start larger infrastructure projects, either to build or finish, and not least that the coalition has the ideal opportunity now to confirm this law, to determine, and, of course, the previous one, to determine by 2030, we do so, and so our citizens and citizens will have at least one feeling that the money they pay to the State is actually well spent. I think that before Mr Zorčič or someone has spoken, billions of euros are only about paying interest; and this certainly is not a prudent consumption of taxpayer money. Between 2004 and 2008, during the first Janša government, Slovenia owed €700 million, from 2008 to 2011, at the time of the Pahorje government for €8.5 billion, between 2012 and 2013, for about €2.5 billion, and then for an additional €8 billion in one good year, the government of Alenka Bratušek. This is said, in the same period as the other government of Janšev owed 2.5 billion, the government of Alenka Bratušek for 8 billion and in the year and a half, when Bratuškova for 8 billion, Pahorje was also 8 billion. And what do we have out of these 16 billion? Nothing! We pushed them into banks, we pushed them into buying social peace, but in fact there were no new jobs because of this, and there were no infrastructure projects that we are talking about today. I understand that this coalition can't pass such a law because you need a team to adopt such a law, you need a coalition that doesn't contain developmental drinks. Developmental Cokes in the sense of a party of Social Democrats and Desus. Such a coalition of such projects will not support, nor will it implement, once the government, which will not contain, in particular, these two parties, a government that will not be included in the Treasury of State Secretaries, who are just watching how citizens and citizens will be squeezed out, and that money will guide God to where, state secretaries, ministers and, last but not least, Members, who are talking about how important the profits from state-owned enterprises are, how important it is that we have state-owned enterprises, and at the same time we have virtually nothing from them. But when the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes, well then let's put part of the profits of these state-owned companies into road infrastructure, build something for this money to show that we obviously do have something from these companies; that out of these companies there are actually 2 million people, except for the things you're going to do, or drive them by way of overpayment, just like every other thing in Slovenia. But apparently, these companies only serve as some kind of frame-up, frame-up, advisory contracts, planned exhaustion. Now there are a few individuals in these state-owned companies. That handful of individuals who have some kind of dismay in this government coalition, that handful of individuals who are trying to prevent the sale of state property at all times, and that handful of individuals who have succeeded in this with Telekom Slovenije, but no one is saying that when Telekom Slovenije is sold, it could be for the 800 million Euro purchases, but if they had already given it for the second track, it would already mean something. Of this, citizens and citizens would already have something. The new infrastructure in connection with Luka Koper, when the Deputy Prime Minister spoke today about how important this business is, how important it is in terms of development and, lastly, in terms of the financial revenues that this company brings into the budget, these infrastructure projects we are proposing, what a multiplier has shown quickly, and these projects would be considered justified and as very necessary. In 2012, the second Janšev government faced very poorly prepared development projects in the field of transport infrastructure, and in 2012 it decided to prepare an infrastructure strategy, road, airline, railway, not least sea or port, and this strategy was then adopted by the government last year, but what is essential is that there is still an operational plan. I am afraid that when this operational plan is confirmed to be back in this direction, such as the resolution or some whole operational plan on housing issues adopted by this coalition, where we have some or no commitment, we have some money, how many population units should count additional construction; in short, nothing concrete. But that is why it is necessary to vote against such laws in terms of the ruling coalition, because these matters are still binding, but these matters will have implications for the state budget, not in the sense that we are additionally burdening it to create additional expenditure, but merely a reasonable allocation to give certain sources of funding to the reconstruction and construction of transport infrastructure in particular. Well, and right here, right now in this law, where it says that the resources are earmarked primarily for the annual road transport and concessional duties of Luke Koper, here we propose, as I previously said, that a further portion of the profits of companies owned by the majority of the country, payments for existing new or acquired concessions in the field of transport infrastructure, utility for the use of public rail infrastructure, compensation for real service, reimbursement for extraordinary transport, traffic offences and part of the excise duty from energy consumption, should be introduced by 1. 1. 2018, as the coalition has already approved the 2016 and 2017 budgets. The problem is that less than €400 million is foreseen in this new financial perspective of the European Union from 2014 to 2020, which is why projects such as or as we have in the plan are impossible to carry out and, therefore, the first is proposed, especially this second law, which is some kind of foundation or upgrade of another; that is, if we say something about what we want, we say here, but here we have financial resources, we will deliberately spend them to build and rebuild these infrastructures. That's exactly why I think it's to imagine that the Poljanska Valley up here with me is a little burdened by the bishop's carousel, but it's the bishop's carousel that shows good how the projects in our country are being run. Mr Ferluga would probably be able to say something about Markovec, but now also about the second track, how we literally make a fool of ourselves and our citizens. It took 40 years to build a bishop's bond, and in the end the whole matter cost EUR 55 million, and now calculate how many scophelic bonds we can place from this financial perspective in 6 years. And when we propose additional financial resources, financial resources that would not further burden our citizens and citizens, but simply swing left-handed and say that this law is unnecessary, we are waiting for some of the operational plans of this government. But there's always a problem with performance. That's why politics obviously likes to adopt, since I've been here, this year and a half, we've already adopted quite a few resolutions, strategies, what I know all the more, declarations, because they're non-binding, because this is a general act, you can follow it, you can go a little bit to the left, you can go a little bit to the right, but if you adopt a law that you have to do something before that date, then there's a problem, then there's a deal going on, and then there's a deal going on, and God forbid that some euro that stays on Dars, we're going to spend on this infrastructure, and we're going to put it in our pocket, when we give it to a colleague there, so we're going to fix this electronic tolling up when we change what kind of supervisor we're going to get out. But, yes, that's how you do it in state companies, so you imagine these state-owned companies as some kind of game range; in short, this nomenclature that's been spinning a bank hole, you've opened the door back to the NLB, so there's no big deal to be expected. However, consideration should be given to this matter, which is on the table, and it is likely that by the end of this term it will be. We will continue with such laws, including in other areas. The fact is that what Mr Zorčič said before, money is missing everywhere, just today, President Borut Pahor gave the Slovenian Army an assessment not sufficiently for the third year in a row, and that is also the result, not of our soldiers and soldiers, but of the equipment of the Slovenian Army, or of better said equipment. The result of another funding, says the military, infrastructure, would also be elsewhere, education, health care. But it is necessary to set some priorities where money will be invested in the future and, in addition to the defence sector I am defending, another important priority is precisely what we are talking about today – infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, too, this law has been repeatedly exposed to the question of whether or not the enrollment in the previous law is correct. In fact, there are two segments of the set of priority projects in the field of infrastructure projects, namely, large projects from the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, we do not deal with a set of small projects in this law, which is the task of the directorate. I have to commend the Directorate for doing my job well, but the only task or difficulty of the Directorate is that it is running out of €50 million annually to provide all the needs, as the Directorate needs a Circus €220 million of investment funds annually to keep Slovenia's regional, main roads in such a state that it does not deteriorate, that is, the minimum threshold. To reach this minimum threshold, the directive is missing 50 million euros per year, after the current budget, adopted. If investments in state infrastructure were to be well paid or, I would say, in all forms also recovered as revenue in the state budget, the latest results of companies operating in the field of transport also show. If I look at Dars first, in 2014 he showed a very good business outcome with 30 million profits. In 2015, a very good result is planned, over 70 million profits. This profit is the revenue of the state budget. Here I am asked whether it would not be better if Dars invested these funds in the payment of his credit obligations if he controlled his credit obligations, which he did, and then in the faster construction of the missing road sections in the Republic of Slovenia. Not that his success is the income of the budget, which then goes to a greater extent towards public spending. This is also how this question is asked. Investments are also well seen or investment progress in public rail infrastructure is visible. Over 200 million euros have been invested annually in railways over the last three years. If we look at the business results of the Slovenian Railways, Slovenian Railways operated with 27 million losses in 2009 and 38 million profits will be shown in 2015, a significant plant – due to investments in railway infrastructure. Without investment, of course, such results cannot be achieved. Of course, there are tasks and measures that will have to be taken. In particular, if I repeat what I have already given in the morning, I am worried about the enormous decline in construction work, as the decline in construction is 23.4%. I am asked here a question which I am asking the Ministry of Infrastructure and Space, because this is the department's pillar, what measures will the Ministry take to counter the biggest decline in the construction sector between all Member States of the European Union? What kind of measures? Otherwise, what is the planned further decline in the construction sector in 2016 and 2017? This is a question that will be answered very quickly at the end of the year. But this answer, of course, will not be positive. This trend of decline, I am sure to tell you, will be even greater than now, which was at the annual level of 23%. These are serious signals, these are serious indicators, indicators that there is actually something to be done in Slovenia or that it is primarily necessary to allocate funds to investments of state importance. Today we have received as a press release the government's opinion, which was given to the media today. I will read this opinion from the Government, quote: "As the activities relating to finding solutions to provide the necessary financial resources for investment and investment maintenance of transport infrastructure are fully under way, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that there is no need for consideration or adoption of the proposed law at this time." We can be satisfied, the government's activity is in full swing. But I'm wondering how long this run is going to take? That's what I want to know! Since all activities are in progress and there is no dilemma, there is no need for this law, after such discussions, because everything is in progress and the funds will be provided. And I hope to ensure that by the end of the year, when I ask the government whether it was full or empty this year. This will depend on what solutions the government will find this year to provide the necessary funding for investment. This is a public statement by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think she's serious. That's an unserious opinion from the government. Don't be afraid, because we're doing everything in full motion, everything's in full swing. But all I'm going to care about is the balance at the end of the year, the ransom from this run, which the government is now doing so intensively. Well, because Prime Minister Cerar said, don't worry, I'm working full and so forth. At the end of the year, however, I will only be interested in the balance which will be increased for infrastructure investments in transport, as to how much this will be accumulated by the end of the year. We are, of course, talking about additional resources. For this law, this proposal is totally unnecessary, inappropriate and so on. At the end of the year, we will look at this magnetogram and the balance of funds that will be raised by the end of the year. Then we'll be able to give the government an assessment of what this run was like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, please. Let's get the mags ready. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u126	Vice President, thank you for your word or your word. In this National Assembly, it was very interesting, in which discussion we Members, Members of Parliament are very skilled, and we always know how to put a whistleblower in our favor. We're just talking as best we can. Some repeatedly repeat that someone was at the office of the Minister of Finance at the time, some say, at the time our government, others say, was our government at the time, and everything was in order at the time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, everything is not as we speak, and I will take advantage of today's debate and speak most of it in your style. You'll find it funny, maybe the vice president will even consider interrupting me, but I probably won't, because it's coming from our group. I will repeat once again what I have already said; that this debate we have today, the previous point and the current point, is in any case useful in some way. This means that we too are thinking about the state of our road and rail infrastructure. If that were not our concern, of course, we probably would not have talked about it so much, but we need to be alert to something. The times were very turbulent. Many of us remember all these events well back 8 and 9 and 10 years. Some of us sat in these benches and, of course, reanimated a number of things. You know, Slovenia has been relatively indebted in the past, but now you can't say again, but it wasn't like that at the time when our government was. Yeah, it wasn't like that at the time, because it was an expansion, of course, there was much more investment. I was myself at local level in some way a co-creator or an investment maker, however, was significantly easier than in 2009, 2010, 2011, even though there were quite a number of funds at local level that we had for investments from the Cohesion Fund of the European Union. You know, we have also adopted the so-called Fiscal Rule Act in this period, and I would like to remind you that it was very difficult to decide to do so, but all of us who have thought in this direction, so that we need to balance the revenue and expenditure of this budget, we have made a simple decision, but some of us have even said that this fiscal rule is too simple, it does not cut deep enough, but you did not live in the reception. Today, we talk about holding back – you know, and then it may already be a double sword, although of course investments also have positive effects. This could quickly respond to what the representative of the applicants said would, of course, have a negative impact on the construction economy. I am sure that this year will be as the proponent has said, but in the coming years, I expect that the use of these European funds will go faster and that there will be a substantial number of investments. You know, if we're being completely honest with each other, that's what happened in the past. This relationship between investment and the social state. You know, today I have reviewed some of the information in one of the Slovenian diaries – here I will talk about the pensioners – and you know that I am worried that 326 thousand 554 pensioners receive up to 600 euros in pension. You know, now here to balance the social state: the investment is not quite easy. Can you imagine living with that money or living with it? It's very hard to imagine. To mention that some minister said we would have a thousand euros in wages – no, no, no, I know who you meant. But not in this context like a lot of people when we're not together, you're talking about what he said. That's not what he said, and it's using a chick again to make them like their constituents. Juncker's program, looking very popular, 315 billion. But you know, if we look back, we can quickly find out that we had some pre-accession incentives, programs, finance to buy different equipment, machines and so on. Do you know what Europe has put us on condition? The compulsory machinery of European origin means compulsory spare parts for these machines from the European Union. These machines were probably all more expensive at the time, and we overpaid them. The European Union, the countries of the European Union that have given these incentives, has, of course, received its money well and well loaded and has benefited from it. There was really too much investment between 2004 and 2008. There were. We still have these consequences today, we still have certain investments that have not been sold at all, have been built, have not been sold. Some companies that have invested have never completed these investments. As I mentioned earlier, everything was growing and growing and it was huge. With the simple word of one of my acquaintances, 20 years old, it has been possible for money to lie on the road, only to be picked up. Yeah, but money is never free. I'd like to get back to the theme of the pomurs' fast road. Indeed, the fast road was built quickly, but it does not mean that it was built as it should be, and it does not appear to be sufficient to meet the needs imposed at this time by the movement of freight through Slovenia. I mentioned earlier the electrification of the railway line of Prague-Hodoš. This was a good investment and also a good result. It has been proven that when the rail line updates in Slovenia will be complete, the higher traffic flow will be able to run along the railway line. And that's about to pick up the toll in freight. I have to say, he called me a bad year ago. [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u128	Your Honor! I am very pleased to see that our proposal for a law already has positive effects, because Mr Jurša has given it, and I believe him because he said that in Desus they already think that something should be done on this segment. This is already visible progress, but I must add that this positive note must also be upgraded with measures and solutions. Well, I believe they'll come, too, for a while, but this is a very important time. With this proposal, we really want to save the coalition time. I would say that those of us who come from the economy, and I come from the construction profession and I do not want to share the opposition in such professional matters as state transport infrastructure. We in the profession share in good solutions or in bad solutions. In these two proposals of our laws, I have not heard today that the solutions are bad, I have not heard that the proposals are bad, I believe that some matter can be improved, and if you see improvements here, then please put better solutions on the table. Put them on the table or give our proposal to supplement. This is a professional approach to an expert proposal, not just because it is an opposition law, we will reject it anyway, regardless of the content itself. No, the experts don't want us to work in the National Assembly politically, but professionally. Make it clear and loud: your proposal sucks, we'll do better. All right, put him on the table! Or say, yeah, your proposal is good, and we're going to add a little bit more to it, and it's going to have the right effects. Thus, in the line of work, this is the right approach and here these divisions of opposition: the position in the profession has no place; and this is all for the benefit of the countries of Slovenia and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In fact, I do not wish to object in anything to my esteemed colleague, France Jurša, merely to supplement. Of course, I found myself in his discussion because I was talking about the foot of the highway. The highway, Comrade Jursh. It's not a fast road. It's a highway, it's green, and about 70 million have been financed by the European Union, which probably knows what it's financing. Otherwise, this money should be returned if you disagree with the highway. The national location plan adopted by the government, where Desus was also adopted in early 2005, refers to the full cross-section of the motorway, which is 26.2 metres. Projects for the ferry highway were built there around 2000 when it was not yet known whether we would go to the EU or not, and ours, and this transverse profile of the highway is 21.2 metres. We both know there's no seat belts, and the driver's seat belts are a little tighter. If then our government, including Desus's, went into reconstruction, today we would not have a Moorish highway, and we and our colleague Jurša would be driving to Ljubljana between the fields, just as I was looking for shortcuts to get from my home to the National Assembly as soon as possible because we have about 200 kilometers in one direction – would we not? So I wouldn't be making fun of our own projects, I'm proud that we built it, and that's the highway, that's not a fast road. Of course, the speed limit, thank God, otherwise there would be more accidents. Of course, some objects on this highway, various overpasses, underpasses, etc. are designed to extend this road. However, immediately after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, on 1 May 2004, transit freight traffic has increased dramatically, and we also feel very good about it, unfortunately. Trucks drive along the line and this traffic is more dangerous than driving on a highway with a full cross-sectional profile. Well, thank God we have a highway in Pomurje, although as the only then coalition MP from Pomur, I still get criticism today, if what you've done, it's nothing. We did what was possible at that time, if not, there would be no highway connection today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc. Get ready, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. To begin with, I would like to touch on the look that was created at this second point today, because the proposal for amendments to this law and the draft law that we discussed at the first point make up an ideal couple. At the first point, we have selected projects, we have written them in Article 3, and now all we need is a law that will provide the means to do so. I must say that, unlike my colleague Mahnič, I do not see any particular logic, but rather some logical error, because we have mostly found at the first point that the adoption of that law is not necessary, and if I were to simplify and be provocative now, I would say that we do not need this law either. And yet. In his opening presentation, Mr Minister said the following: "In the budgets adopted for 2016 and 2017, for the first time in several years, we have provided sufficient funds for investment maintenance to stop the further deterioration of the road network." This is the first fact that, if you remember the budget discussions, this was repeatedly highlighted at the time – the situation is improving, it has improved. So I'm talking about the means that this government provides for the maintenance of road infrastructure. State Secretary Vraničar also said in her debate how much more funds were allocated, she talked about 50 million euros more for current maintenance. While in his debate he categorically rejected this, I did not hear a single amount that would have been mentioned as not holding. We are all still finding this together and it has already become public knowledge that there is still too little money. So we would need about 200 million euros to rebuild state roads, not just to sustain them and protect them from further deterioration, but to restore them. And 200 million euros would be needed to complete the reconstruction. Of the existing dedicated resources under the current law, the most important annual road vehicle duty is around €150 million, which is estimated for 2016 and 2017. Here we come up with dedicated resources, which are proposed by the proposalers as new as additional. My friend Gniedar said no one told me what was wrong with them. The government's opinion says very well what's wrong with them. Now I will not read this because I would probably be condemned again to have reading exercises, but problems – the integrity of the budget, the resources from the integrated budget. We've heard they're intended for other users as well. And the fact that you say now that this will not affect citizens – of course, if you take so much more from their integrated budget, it will run out elsewhere, it will have to be covered somewhere or it will have to be met with smaller standards of other services. So it would have an impact on the citizens. In general, when we talk about the funds that we would take from companies owned by a majority of the state, I think this still shows that some people are treating companies, forgive the expression as dairy cows. Most state-owned companies are companies. Well, we have some monopolies, some of them are operating on the market, they have to meet the goals and purposes for which they were set up, we cannot rob them of their profits now so to speak, which they need for their own development and, of course, for the development of society. Dividends – how do we know how many dividends there will be, depend on business. We're going to take profits from companies, and we expect dividends from them. I mean, it's a bunch of problems with these new sources that you're referring to in Article 2 of the bill. What is the solution, you ask yourself, and what is the better solution. The better solution is presented in the National Reform Programme on pages 6 and 7, again I will not have reading exercises, it says in the 2016 budget – according to the adopted budget – an additional 10 million euros, in 2017 on the approved budget – we are not talking about the rebalances of possible – 21 and in 2018 45 on the so-called adopted budget in 2017. This is a better solution for us, not all of these dangers and traps contained in your proposals. In his discussion, Brother Joseph Horvath asked what had been done. I think that we can read everything that has been done in the reports of the Government or the Ministry of Infrastructure. One of these is called the Year of Government Days, a summary report from September 2015 is published on the websites, many projects that have been implemented. If I extend this debate to what will be done, we have an Action Plan for Priority Activities of Ministries and Government Services in 2016, published again on the website – a number of projects in the field of railway and road infrastructure. What would be interesting to me, too, as someone who supports this government proposal or in some way an agreement between the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance, is how we come from this proposal from the National Reform Programme to, I simply say, new transport infrastructure. Yes, indeed, discussions are actively taking place, they are taking place at the level of coalition parliamentary groups and coalitions in the government, but it might be interesting to hear how from here on out and how to get to improved transport infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u134	Your Honor, I must answer Mr. Krajnc. You talked about the impact on the budget and the impact on citizens. These are two essential differences that we cannot put on the same denominator. We in law say that the draft law has no impact on the budget, on the budget adopted in 2016 and 2017. This is one thing, and you have been talking about the impact on citizens, on a budget that has not yet been adopted, of course, since 2018. Logically, as of 2018, resources for general budget spending will be reduced, because it will be part of the funds earmarked, strictly for investing in transport infrastructure. That's a fact. And you can't put these two things on the same denominator. Then the resources of the directorate. The state of Slovenian roads also deteriorates in the financial year 2016 and 2017 in Slovenia. You were only talking about purely bare maintenance. Check this information on the Directorate so that there will be no misinterpretations. The Directorate needs a total of 220 million annually, together with maintenance, investment and investment, so that the state of roads in Slovenia does not deteriorate. But let's calculate the delta on the current adopted budget, how much is missing up to this 220 million, and then we can say that the state of Slovenian roads is not getting any worse. That's how we have to take the right data here, I'd say, so that we can then put it in a comparison, and we're also giving it right.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Daniel Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. There may be some further clarifications about this law, which is, therefore, all of you note, linked to the previous law that has defined individual projects, and this is an additional funding of these projects. There has been a lot of talk about the fact that these resources, which we have proposed further, are unrealistic and that they are primarily redistributed to the integrated budget. If we are all aware that we have adopted certain fiscal constraints and certain rules that apply, then this is certainly logical, because we cannot increase the budget and anticipate some new resources, although some resources are foreseen in this proposal. And with regard to those direct burdens, we have also foreseen that they will not be taken into account until 2018 when the new budgets are being prepared. It is said that traffic penalties and part of excise duty arise or come as a source for the implementation of the previous law only with the adoption of new budgets. As regards the 2016-2017 budget and certain international commitments, there will certainly be different transfers within the budget, where there is a great potential for additional resources to be earmarked for investments. The government will have to take care of a certain rationalisation within the budget. You said there was no additional source, the concession fee for the highway is an additional source if we decide to do so. According to some of our estimates, about 2 billion and a half to 3 billion funds can be directly allocated at that time for new projects, to improve transport infrastructure and are not burdensome at this time. It's a long-term delay, I'd say. If anyone wonders whether this is possible or not, a similar matter was practically carried out at the airport in Brnik, where the land is still owned by the Republic of Slovenia, but with the concessional relationship it was transferred to the concessionaire and it also paid certain annuities in this regard. Thus, highways can also be put into some relationship, land and motorways will still be in the Republic of Slovenia, and the country will gain some quality source for solving infrastructure problems, and perhaps another route will be a matter. Darsa's bonds are also one of those solutions that we can consider to be an additional source. Darsa's bonds, as you know, don't go into public debt. There was a lot of talk about how the government and the Ministry will provide additional funds and you are all talking about an additional 10 million for 2016 and for 2017 21 million. This must also be compared somehow to what such sum means, and if you know that this unfortunate bridge in Medna v. Bears is worth about 20 million, then we know what increases we are talking about. Earlier, someone had said that it had been estimated that about 500 crossings needed additional funding or repairs. There was a lot of talk on the part of the coalition that they wouldn't support the marriage, because they didn't know why. Desus was there, too, and we will not support it, and in the next sentence it was necessary to establish an effective way of financing public transport infrastructure. This is somehow not going together, we have proposed in here a solution that can be improved through the debate, but now just to believe that it will come to an end on its own, and I think you are a little too old to believe it. The second sentence was that the government committed itself to providing additional funds in 2016. I said: 10 million in 2016, 21 million This is one slightly more difficult bridge in the Republic of Slovenia. [[…]] Now, if we are to restore infrastructure in this manner and at this rate, it will be clear that those who are on the highways, those who are in the larger cities where the carriages are arranged, will enjoy 20, 30 years, and all the remaining areas in the Republic of Slovenia will be waiting for this logic, as you have been advocating for the next 200 years to come to an update of some infrastructure. Mrs Porotat continued to say, "There is a need to provide additional funds." I hope she didn't just mean with these 10 and 20 million, that's absolutely too little right now. Also: "The government and the ministry are speeding up the provision of means for transport infrastructure." I hope that the ministry will comment on this claim, because I do not see any accelerated implementation and provision of these funds if we are talking only about 10 million. Again, it was said that the law was merely about redistribution. Once again, we are also aware of the fiscal constraints and rules that we have adopted in this National Assembly, which is why this is also a normal consequence. However, in the cases that we are proposing, it is indeed for resources linked to infrastructure in one way or another. Mr Zorčič also said that we would confiscate funds for companies. These funds or, yes, these funds from state-owned enterprises are already in the state budget. We have only proposed that the government, however, aim to improve this public infrastructure, whether it is the consequences of public infrastructure or the use of public infrastructure. Which will mean more revenue in the coming years, and thus easier closure of financial structures and, last but not least, of the budget. The fact is that if we invest nothing in infrastructure, there is also some added value, some improvement in this area. However, if there are no improvements, certain companies can no longer contribute to the budget. So this chain and this link is necessary and these gains are already going into the budget. Maybe this, this law of ours provides additional resources to complete this gap from the present. Earlier, it was mentioned that for 2016 about 80 million for investment and investment roads and about 90 million for railways, it is 170, 180 million, up to 500 million, and we propose that the legal solutions you have on the table be supplemented. And in all the years to come when the law will be in effect. This is not a single intervention in the budget, it is only a proposal where additional resources can be identified. My colleague George said they were useful marriages for thinking. I hope that we will slowly come from thinking also to acting, not just thinking when some laws come into play, and that the government will also start implementing, not thinking. I believe that they are useful for some to start thinking, but given that some are in government and in office to make decisions, they will also have to make decisions. And this is what these proposals are intended to do; to complement and become operational through the debate, thereby allowing what you all have seen to be insufficient resources to build infrastructure. Mr Jurš also mentioned that it is now necessary to prepare and then we will draw on European funds. There are only 400 million more European funds. We said that again, it's also in the government's work. Of this, some 300 million are already spent on rail projects, GSMR and the like. Thus, from this source of European funds will be a second year and in three, four years, there will be not much fire. If we do not ensure that some suitable law is made available to ensure that transport infrastructure is implemented, restored, built on a new one, it will be very difficult. Thus, this source is relatively small, and we are also drawing attention to the problem of this new financial perspective. Although I do not know what else to add, I hope that, given that we have really enlightened the whole situation in the context of transport infrastructure and that even with regard to the law that would improve this infrastructure, we have made it possible to say more or less, it is also possible to say that the strategy itself has been a solid provision, it has cost about 500 000 euros, we are now talking about the continuation of the National Development Programme and some other documents that will also stand a lot, while our law is in the process and taxpayers at this point costs nothing, as well as providing the same solutions or very similar solutions as the strategy that some government document will bring, I hope, by the end of April, in the procedure in the State Assembly, as the Minister at the previous point, it will probably be similar or perhaps a little lower amount than the national strategy. It is also sometimes necessary to ask from this framework. It is true that money may have been on the road in the past, what my colleague Jurša said, but Slovenia sometimes has a problem that sometimes it is difficult to bend down to pick it up, and here we usually have a big problem. But the one who's older is even harder, and that's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. The word has a representative, a representative of the government – how did you agree? Here you go, mag. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Most of today's debate revolved around the purpose or integrity of the funds we are earmarking for maintenance or investment in transport infrastructure. The government estimates that, in order to provide all the needs to be financed from public funds and taking into account all the constraints we have, there is a better way of providing integral resources for these purposes as well. To be serious, we have also proved by adopting budgets for 2016 and 2017, where, for the first time in several years, sufficient funds have been provided from integrated funds for the ongoing maintenance of transport infrastructure and all the funds already available are earmarked for investment maintenance. This €50 million increase in integral resources will be further upgraded by additional transfers of integral funds for investment maintenance or investments in public roads this year, with additional, that is to say, 10 million and in the following year with at least 20 million, as far as the budgetary situation allows, and more. I would also like to draw attention to the claim that the solutions proposed do not affect or affect the budgets adopted; and that is not true! In fact, part of the annual profit, as I said before, I assume that it is dividends from companies owned by the majority of the country, which are already the revenue of the state budget of integral resources. However, not the total annual profit, as was understood from some discussions, but the part of the annual profit intended to be allocated in the form of dividends to owners or owners and is also consistent with the investment plans of companies that contribute essentially to this part of the revenue of the State budget. Also, some other items that are foreseen as earmarked resources are already today, or the revenue of the State budget, or otherwise involved in a system of financing at least a certain part of the transport infrastructure. I'm thinking of financing highways or the operation of Dars. It is not worth pointing out, several times today's speech was that Darsa's bonds could be used for this purpose, as they are not considered to be state debt. Yes, today, given how Dars is organized today and how his activity is financed today. and because it itself is financed by tolls on toll roads, we can claim that Dars is excluded from the state sector and therefore does not affect the volume of the debt nor the deficit of the state sector. However, the moment we involve Dars in the construction of public roads on a wider scale, this story will change and it will not be easy. This is why we advise caution, not only in determining the largest intended resource in the bill, it is excise, but also in identifying other items in terms of financing the construction of a public road network in Slovenia. The story needs to be looked at in a much more comprehensive way, and when you look at all the benefits and downsides that such a solution brings, it is evident that a more appropriate way through appropriate measures is to ensure sufficient scope for investment in this area also within integral resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u140	I repeat once again the dilemma related to the adopted integrated budget. Resources linked as revenue to the already adopted budgets for 2016 and 2017 shall be fixed as assigned appropriations from 1. 1. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. This is said to be without prejudice to the 2016 budget or 2017 budget. However, I agree that further action must also be taken, but we all agree, but there are no such measures. As proponents of the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure, we wanted to achieve the basic purpose of this bill in order to provide a stable source of funding for the development of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia. That's the basic purpose. To this end, we want to achieve the continuity of investment funds for the future, we want to strengthen the branch of the economy again, I would say the most important branch of the economy, that is construction. Construction is the engine of the economic development of a country and if we give the construction money, then this engine or this sector will be strengthened because we know that today this sector or engine in Slovenia is relatively weak. You can see that the simplest works that are listed today are obtained by foreigners in our country. This is unreasonable in these difficult times. In fact, it is an extremely important segment, it is an extremely important area that gives energy and, of course, financial returns to the budget, that is construction, and investment finance must be allocated to it. Today, the whole debate has not heard that these proposals are bad. If you have a better suggestion, then please put it on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We have some time left, and after the 71st Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we still have an opportunity to discuss. Please sign up with a key, including a representative, a representative of the Government – yes, of course – and a proponent. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Ivan Škodnik, you have the floor, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well-known representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow Members! Of course, I took the floor today in the debate on the first law proposed by the opposition, and I also have a few words in this conclusion of the debate on this second law. Perhaps I would lean on my colleague, Franco Jurš, who was discussing before me when he somehow outlined the work of the Government and somehow also said that he was in several governments and that in the current government, in fact, or this government does not work so badly. He mentioned the restrictions that this government has, this is a fiscal rule, even around the funds that some have been talking about, even from the opposition, although you said that Comrade Jurša had somehow stated that the money was lying on the ground and only to be collected. No, that was heard earlier by the opposition, he just commented and repeated. Of course, Junkar’s program is probably interesting too, but it must be realized that any money we collect from the road or from any program will have to be returned. Of course, even with certain interest. Some would say that the interest is now very favourable, perhaps the lowest in the last decade. I liked it, because my colleague Ljubo Žnidar has somehow commended his colleague Franc Jurša, which confirms that we are increasingly united in this national assembly. Of course, we find that the condition of roads is bad, that roads are also dangerous many times, but of course this government can do as much as it can. We have a budget for 2016, we have a budget for 2017, but of course we are also talking about some more investment and more funds after 2017. I was happy when my colleague Horvat mentioned the construction of roads in the last decade, when he somehow built a highway in Pomurje or Prekmurje, and he also mentioned that in this investment, if he asked any citizen in that area, no one would have anything against this investment. I certainly confirm this to him and regret that in this we were not Korosci, who are already waiting 20 years for this road, but this government, as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure, promised last year that this road would somehow start in 2019 and then whatever it is doing now on this route is confirmed and I hope that the construction of this road in 2019 will also begin. I would also like to say a few concrete things, because in fact this government does not make false promises. Even when she came to Koroška, she did not promise much, but if I stop at those details, when we talk about roads today, I must say that at the time they promised to rebuild the road from Viča along the border with Austria to Dravograd, this was 50% realized last year, and the rest this year, and as promised, are already calls. During last year, the road from Duge to Thinking was also restored between 2 and 3 kilometers away. Then several roads were renovated and are planned for 2016 and 2017 in the Mežiški valley. However, I think it is a very important matter to restore the road from Slovenj Gradc to Kope, to a tourist centre where there was actually a call and some work will be done this year and another in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u143	I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. This is for the consideration of the Act on the determination of the Parliamentary Investigation for the amendment of the Law and for the other decisions of the Public Assembly and the assessment of the factual situation for the determination of the political liability of the holders of public functions which have been involved in the preparation and implementation of the public interest procedure in the field of sales and the acquisition of vital resistances, for the benefit of the Sum, that procedures and transactions have been carried out in a non-concerning and non-comprehensible manner, that the consequences of such an act have already arisen. On the basis of Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 30 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have before us the request of 30 Members, i.e. one third of the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, for the appointment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales, the purchase of vein support. Why does this demand? At the beginning of its term of office, the current government set a common denominator as a goal, namely to restore people's confidence in the country and its core pillars of state-run action. Slovenia and citizens are expected to become a reflection of fair and fair society according to the Government's plans. What do these words really mean in practice? They mean a little bit of a wrinkle, actually. Indeed, this blue Slovenia, as they called it in the coalition treaty, does not want to face one fundamental problem, which the European Union has also warned us about in recent research in its warnings, is corruption. According to data we were able to read in the media yesterday, Slovenia's corruption costs about €4 billion, representing 9.8 GDP. In comparison, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to invest 3.2 billion euros in new projects in development projects in 2016, which is less than corruption costs us. Or that in 2016, only 87 million will be spent on infrastructure projects for maintenance in the road network, i.e. less than corruption costs us. The European Parliament's study also reminds Slovenia that we have done little or almost nothing to reduce corruption in our country. So the writings in the coalition contract, as well as the words of members of the coalition at previous meetings, when we addressed systemic corruption in health care, to take on zero tolerance for corruption in health care and to seek all responsibility and responsibility for possible corruption and to demand responsibility, are only sand in the eyes of citizens. At previous meetings or at the last extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, on the subject of recommendations on reducing systemic corruption in health care, members of the coalition, particularly Members of the Modern Centre Party, discussed in the sense that there is no corruption in Slovenia and that there is no control over the matter. Such thinking and the way the current government is best suited to certain interest groups that have been working on their monopolies and taking advantage of taxpayers' money for a long time. So, the government and the coalition also do not want to seek out those responsible for various health irregularities, including possible corruption in health care, even though they have committed themselves to it in a coalition contract and are constantly talking about it, and there are already sparrows in the branches about corruption in health. We can read in the media that the house examinations in 2013 were made by doctors who had partially experienced these investigations, progress a week ago when 10 doctors were indicted. According to certain information, major irregularities, including corruption, are expected to occur in the purchase of vein support. Only the information that the prices for the exact same cords were different in two hospitals in Slovenia and that UKC Ljubljana would spend more than 4 million 200 in a year to purchase the ventricles from a domestic supplier and that if it were to be sought, it would be possible for UKC Ljubljana to spend a little more than 900 000 euros, i.e. only 22 % of what it spent in 2012. That information can tell you a lot of things. For several reasons, we have made a request for the appointment of a parliamentary investigative commission to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vein support. Somehow, too, this request for a parliamentary inquiry is logical as a result of the rejection of the coalition's recommendations made at the previous meeting, in order to make recommendations to the Ministry and the Government somehow commit themselves to taking a more responsible approach to the search for those responsible for corruption in health care and to make certain institutions more decisive. The government has rejected, or the coalition in the National Assembly together with the United Left, the conclusions of the recommendations have not been adopted to commit the institutions to improving the state of the fight against corruption in health. The reason then is also the statement by the Director of UKC Ljubljana regarding corruption and visits to one of the Commission’s meetings on public finances supervision. We have also listened to the Health Committee of the Commission's Director for the Prevention of Corruption, that corruption in the area of the acquisition of vascular resistors is highly likely, and that the KPC has been dealing with this issue for some time now, but he himself said that they are somehow unproductive in this area. We have listened to or seen such and different reactions at the Health Committee meeting, which confirmed suspicions that there would be potential corruption in the area of the purchase of vein support in Slovenian hospitals. Finally, due to the poor response of the judiciary and the police to the search for those responsible in the SDS, NSI and unrelated Members, we decided to request the appointment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales of veins. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to establish the possible responsibility of public function holders to participate in the preparation and implementation of the procurement procedure in the field of the acquisition of vascular resistors, due to the suspicion of the presence of corruption in the health sector in the area of the acquisition of vascular resistors, in order to determine the possible liability of former and current public function holders in institutions carrying out health activities at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia related to the sale and acquisition of vascular resistors. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is also to determine how, through the supplier of medical equipment, the taxpayer's money is to flow for the purpose of financing entirely other areas, in particular the media. This was already pointed out by certain sources in 2012, the KPK also pointed out. I believe that, given that coalition parties are constantly, as I have mentioned, talking about their desire to act constructively in the detection of corruption and in identifying and demanding the responsibilities of individuals acting in such actions, I believe that all parliamentary groups will see that it is high time that they move from words to actions to reduce systemic corruption in health and that they will actively participate in the parliamentary commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much. For further explanation, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u146	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President-in-Office! In Novi Slovenija we signed a request for a parliamentary inquiry to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular restraints, to establish the responsibility of those involved in the preparation and execution of the procurement procedure in the area of the purchase of vascular cords, the suspicion of corruption in this and the suspicion of abandoning the duty to seek responsibility. The parliamentary investigation is also intended to provide an answer to the conclusion that the taxpayer’s money through medical equipment suppliers is expected to flow to finance media activities, as well as to clarify Mark Medical’s role and its involvement in the secondary and tertiary level of public health institutions. The problem of health corruption in Slovenia is being addressed by several institutions, from the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Court of Auditors, such and other investigative commissions, but not yet without real conclusions. The consequences of corruption are also higher costs for the public health system in Slovenia. Corruption, we can safely say, is the rakrana of our health system and one of the major vile ways of taking advantage. Indeed, individuals take advantage of the treatment of our children, the treatment of all citizens and citizens with this public money, and this is, of course, unacceptable. We believe that the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is in the public interest, because we want an answer as to why it has taken place to obtain multiple payments and why no more efforts have been made to purchase the material at lower prices. In fact, according to some data, UKC Ljubljana is expected to spend around EUR 4 million for some of the more than 5,000 lifetimes, but if it decided to buy from a foreign supplier, it would pay four and a half times less for the same amount, that is 970,000 euros. Therefore, Christian Democrats are interested in why public administrations do not make the most of their decision to conclude an appropriate direct purchase contract with a supplier from abroad, which the Commission considers to be the cleanest and optimal option to prevent corruption. Of course, this parliamentary investigation will show the next Rakran of Slovenian health care, which we have repeatedly warned about in Novi Slovenija. In fact, we don't have standards and standards for medical equipment and devices. A good year ago, we discussed precisely in the National Assembly that the Government had already taken the decision several times to draw up standards and standards that have not yet been met and are the basis for determining the prices of health services, which would provide a more adequate funding system at the time of tight operating conditions. Since the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance does not comply with the conclusions of the Government, I repeat that it does not comply with the conclusions of the Government, individual contractors have taken their own steps to prepare them, which is reflected in the fact that there are different ways of explaining to strangers the coverage of such or other decisions regarding the acquisition of the equipment. The consequences of the non-functional health system are also increasingly felt by citizens by extending waiting types and reducing the quality of health services, medical equipment and supplies despite the great efforts of doctors and health workers. Therefore, we firmly believe that it is time for changes and thus time for a parliamentary inquiry that will reveal the exhaustion of Slovenian health care and require the responsibility of those involved in individual irregularities and their resolution from important positions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Christian Democrats are co-proposers of the requirement to determine a parliamentary investigation into abuses in the Slovenian health system in the area of sales or purchase of vascular restraints. This is one of the most obvious examples of how it should not work, and it is in spite of all the control mechanisms. The taxpayer’s money intended for the public health system went in a shameless way into his private pockets in the case of the ventricles. How will those responsible explain to us the conclusion that Mark Medical, d.o.o., vascular resistance in Slovenia sold for an astronomical thousand 300 euros, while the same product in Poland cost only 460 euros. Where is the difference between who negotiated for such a price and who put it? We will try to get answers to many unanswered questions from all those involved in the process of purchasing the ventricles, not only that, but we expect Christian Democrats to receive the final judicial epilogue. In Novi Slovenija we support the commission of an investigation to find responsible public function holders who have participated in the procedures for the acquisition of vascular resistors and their responsibilities in abandoning the obligation to conduct themselves, as well as the responsibility of the supplier of this medical device and the draining of tax money into media and publishing activities for the past 13 years. This was confirmed indirectly by Mrs Brigita Čokl, Director-General of the University Clinical Centre of Ljubljana, at the meeting of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. That's where we got the data, the numbers I used to give. The area of sales and purchase of venous braces is only one of the tops of the icy mountain or icy mountains of corruption in health care. The consequences for the public health system are clear: poor cashiers, long waiting types, departures of doctors to better paid places abroad, inefficient and too expensive health system. Sometimes the patient or patient seems to be the last person in the healthcare system. In New Slovenia, we expect all measures to be taken for the thorough reorganization of the procurement process and the medical equipment-related services. We also expect that the investigation will help to establish such a legislative and supervisory system that the public treasury will not be threatened as it is today. We also expect that the investigation will restore at least part of the confidence in the public health system, which is increasingly being threatened by increasingly serious affairs that are also reflected in deaths. We want Christian Democrats to achieve the goal of bringing before the deadline of justice all those who have been successfully avoiding the public for more than a decade and finally clarifying their involvement in suspicious transactions. The parliamentary investigation will only be one of the drugs used in the treatment of corruption of the diseased health system. How effective we will be depends on all of us in the 1990s. In the end, let me add another thought. In Novi Slovenija and I personally regret and regret that because of something, perhaps a handful of corrupt children in the health system then poor light and bad shadows fall on the entire health system. Unfortunately, even the best doctors who make pearls in our health system. This pains us deeply, and it is also why we are co-signers of this investigative parliamentary commission, or I believe that it will be formed. It is unworthy and unacceptable that some of the bad guys who spend their own pockets on taxpayers' money actually mutilate the health system through corruption. Of course, we have excellent individuals in mind here, and we regret that bad shadows and bad lights also fly to those who are professionally and ethically very good and honest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u150	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Why did we contribute signatures to this parliamentary inquiry in the Group of Non-Aligned Members? Because we believe that our health care is good, that good doctors and good nurses and good staff are, but some of the cases shed a bad light on the whole sector. What needs to be pointed out is that the key to the answers is in staffing, management and public procurement. These three things need to be settled. Once these matters are settled, the whole sector will start to function as it should. What do we have to expose? In the case of public contracts, the problem is from procurement to the end of public procurement, to enforcement, because cartel arrangements are being made, in which the price increases enormously because there are some legal restrictions. This is what we want to clear up with this parliamentary inquiry; whether it is really a bad law, or whether there is such pressure that the law cannot be implemented, or whether it is a classic form of criminality – and then what we need is institutions that detect this crime and help Parliament to do so. That is why we have highlighted the case of venous braces as the one that is most beautiful, most visible and most eccentric. The point is that, on the basis of one case, we can also work preventively in other areas and show how it is right to execute a public order and what can be done in health care. It is the breakdown of these public procurement networks and, of course, those helpers who, in the form of white-collar criminals, have allowed the financial flow to be covered and the money to be diverted elsewhere, as well as into the tax havens or, as we have seen, through some other opera products in real estates, in various travels and so forth. It's just that we're trying to get ahead of ourselves. The investigation that's ahead of us is going in a slightly different direction than the investigations we've just seen. I talked a lot to my colleagues from Austria, to my colleague Maximilian Edelbacher, who proposed an Austrian model, by which you take out the most clear case and on the basis of one case of systemic corruption or expose systemic crime, you bring him to the end and it's preventative to other cases and it turns out that things can be solved. If we set the case too wide, we get away with it several times. So I think that public function holders can answer on a smaller scale for one case that can be proved, but once the case begins to unfold in the light of the principle of snowball, then we can prove more. It is a matter of proving political responsibility and at the same time helping institutions that are obliged to prosecute such crime — the police, the prosecution and others — to bring the case to an end. What is the multiplier activity and what is the fusion of these answers? We can't just think about the police and the prosecution, but we need to know that such an investigation can have multi-layer effects. First, to protect those who scream at the whistle and point out mistakes. We had a number of doctors alerting us to mistakes, and we were even punished sometimes for going abroad because they had problems. It means to protect those who are willing to say that we then collect real evidence on the basis of these indications. To support the real investigative journalism, which is very small in Slovenia, we have more yellow journalism. We're trying to support real investigative journalism, because investigative journalists are the first to detect cash flows abroad. This has happened several times with links to investigative journalists abroad. Next, we will support financial institutions such as Furs, the Competition Protection Agency, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, corruption and the like, which must participate together in joint investigation teams or in the exchange of information in such investigations. Then, not least, if it is necessary to determine whether there is a need to amend a law that prevents direct purchase abroad. So far, excuses have gone this way to buy this kind of equipment through intermediaries. So, let's see if any law prevents this. If I conclude, the purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to restore to the health care industry the reputation that it had to help doctors and all staff to regain this reputation, to allow these institutions to operate at the same time as transparent management and with staff. Of course, all transparency over the assets of those involved in such transactions is the key, especially those who run these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The text is addressed to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u152	And we've got a third inquest outside the door! Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. That's right. This is one of the instruments used by the National Assembly, as a rule by the opposition, when it of course wants to use all means to control the executive branch; and it is the same. However, we forget that this tool is not only the opposition, but primarily the National Assembly, in order to improve and upgrade its legislation and, in accordance with all the powers and powers, to introduce and adopt certain decisions that could build up an area for which an investigative commission is designated. Of course, we are already participating in both investigative commissions in the Modern Centre Party, and we do not see any obstacles to not participating in the third. For one simple reason, for once the Commission of Inquiry is established, it is right for all of us to cooperate, one in order to carry out, because they are the applicants of purpose itself, the other in order to safeguard the very legality of how this investigation will also be conducted. Why is that important? It's important for a number of reasons. For the first time, because the applicant has already admitted in his documents that he does not really have a serious basis for his investigative commission. At least he didn't mention it. He did not, in fact, admit otherwise, say that the debate itself in the National Assembly has shown that the time has come to establish an investigative commission and to practically rewrite the proposal for the convening of an extraordinary meeting and state all the same arguments as he stated for an extraordinary meeting for the Commission of Inquiry itself. However, the purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is, of course, to mix it with a series of investigations and to mix it with the very purpose of how it actually intends to carry it out. What exactly is the function of the commission of inquiry? The function of the Commission of Inquiry is to firstly identify the political responsibility of individuals and, more importantly, what I have already mentioned, that it can, of course, also by a certain assessment of individual actions by means of measures, upgrade individual legislation or take certain decisions. However, if we pay very close attention, we will see that at the birth of this commission of inquiry, there was a lot going wrong. Many things went wrong, at least those who have read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service will see that on the five densely typed pages they wrote the reasons for what was missing and where the proposer missed everything if he wants to set up an investigative commission. The first issue, which is that if we find out that we will find the purpose, and this is political responsibility in the call for proposals, we can quickly find that the directors of the institutions, for the first time, are not political figures; even more, all those implementing have no connection with the policy, and this indirect responsibility will be very difficult to identify in the investigative commission itself. The second point is to go to an investigative committee after a so-called Austrian model to select one small matter, so that as such you can search and reach the end and use it as a model for everyone else, of course it is very attractive, but we have one small problem: we establish an investigative commission and we operate under Slovenian legislation, not Austria. It is therefore very embarrassing to refer to Austrian models, for in reality we admit that we will not be able to do anything — what the Austrians did. And third, more importantly, in the investigative group itself or for the very purpose, for the first time, we are talking about solving systemic corruption in health care and then separating primary from secondary and tertiary health care, which means that we will only be looking in one area and not in the other. In fact, the thesis that has just been re-examined today is that in the coalition we claim that corruption is not, is not true and is extracted from the vine. It is true, however, that when a person repeats the same three times, four times, it is very quickly accepted as the truth, and of course the proponents are doing so over and over again. We were on the committee together, where we discussed this topic and, later, at the debate itself in the National Assembly, we were unanimous and united only in one matter, that corruption is in health care and that the dimension of corruption is impossible to assess right now. This is what we all think about and talk about numbers that do not have any serious basis. Of course, it is our interest to participate in an investigative commission for a number of reasons; one is to prevent any takeover of the powers of the police, the prosecution or the judiciary – what is more or less mentioned in the proposal and the performances themselves today has already been mentioned several times that it is necessary to seek the truth and bring the magpies into the world. We agree that this is the task of the authorities, and it is ours to find political responsibility. I fear it will be difficult to bring this only commission to a serious end, but we hope to find certain solutions that might show us where and when and in what way some thing can and is worth changing. Of course, we will wait for the final report of the commission itself, to see how this is going to go. The one who holds the tactic will normally be the chairman of the commission of inquiry, and will have a very large responsibility, including all the members of the commission. Let me warn you something. If we want to discuss some content seriously, we need to know something about this content first, and the proponents have shown with their proposal that they do not know many things or do not know them or move. In addition, if we want to discuss the content seriously, we must also take care of the form before that, at least in democratic countries, and this path has been introduced by a new parliamentary practice, it has also been misused. I should therefore like to draw attention to one very unusual practice that has taken place at the College of the President of the National Assembly, which is that when the President of the National Assembly rightly called on the proposers to complete the document with a request for the establishment of an investigative commission, they tabled only an hour before the College itself, I will say that there are certain corrections which none of the members of the College has been able to see. All that was evident was that the document had been filed. And thinking that the document had been upgraded, the college had decided on it and that is why we are sitting here in Parliament today to discuss this conclusion. It later turned out that it was only minor technical corrections and it was in no way that the applicants upgraded their document, in particular not with the requirements imposed by the Legislative and Legal Service. Despite the fact that this new parliamentary practice has taken place, this shows that sometimes it is better to breathe and count to 10 before jumping and quickly taking a decision which, at least I can say, is incorrect if not even illegal. In particular, with the fact that the Law-Legal Service has written very clearly in its last part the following: this is that it can be shown that such an investigative commission can even be illegal. Nevertheless, in the Modern Centre Party, of course, we will cooperate, which is crucial, and by doing so we will be vigilant and hope to come to a solution. However, I fear that this will be another one of many parliamentary investigations that will end the fate as it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, dear fellows! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, since the beginning of our mandate, the Ministry of Health has been constantly reminding us that there is a need to prepare a health reform, to note the irregularities that have taken place in the field of health, to the affairs and, of course, to corruption and, of late, to systemic corruption. Because of these irregularities, affairs and corruption, we have called in this mandate 12 extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee. At these extraordinary meetings, we wanted to draw the attention of the public and the ministry to systemic corruption in public procurement; we noted that some hospitals classifying patients without proper order – it is said that in this area the government is a mess, which makes patients in an unequal situation – we have warned of suspicion of bribery and bribery; we have warned that employees in public health institutions were involved in this area; we have also pointed out examples of neurological clinics, paediatric surgery, the Oncological Institute, standards and so on. At the autumn session on systemic corruption, we proposed two conclusions, namely that the Ministry, when preparing health reform, prepare a comprehensive solution to eliminate systemic corruption on the principle of zero tolerance and that, in the public health institutions of which the State is the founder, also ensure business on the principle of zero tolerance to corruption. Of course, our proposals have not been confirmed by the coalition, despite the fact that you like to speak out or that you like to refer to zero tolerance for corruption. Also, at the extraordinary meeting of the parent working body at the end of February 2016, the coalition did not confirm our proposals or recommendation that the National Assembly should hold a debate on possible corruption in health, that the National Assembly should propose to the Government and the Ministry of Health to investigate allegations of possible corruption in health on the basis of the words put forward by the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana at the meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision on 3 February 2016, to invite the Government and the Ministry of Health to present to the National Assembly an analysis of the effects of the joint public health procurement action envisaged for 2015, that the National Assembly should recommend to the Government and the Ministry of Health that it take the necessary measures to thoroughly reorganise the procurement processes and services associated with medical equipment, with the emphasis of expensive medical equipment, that the National Assembly should invite the Government and the institutions to take the necessary measures for the thorough reorganisation of the procurement processes and to the competent authorities of the public administration of the administrative authority to order of the administrative authority to order of the administrative act of the institution. Since the report was not adopted on 3 March 2016 by the National Assembly, this report was considered without a vote. It is interesting, fellow Members, that just before this extraordinary meeting on the subject of systemic corruption by a law firm, in view of the reasons set out in the request for a meeting, we have received a warning letter foretelling the initiation of judicial proceedings before a competent court. We have warned coalition colleagues, both at the meeting of the parent committee and at the meeting of the National Assembly, that in the coalition contract, health care has been enshrined under measures, I quote, "... to enforce zero tolerance for health corruption. Of all those who are responsible for the rise of corruption by their non-action, we will also claim personal responsibility......" I ask myself, or you, where are these measures now and where is this responsibility? No action, no change, no reform. Members of the Coalition almost all of you at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in early March discussed that corruption in health care was, but you could not agree on whether it was corruption or systemic corruption. If we look at the definition of what systemic corruption is. Systemic corruption is corruption within the entire system. The concept represents a situation where a company or state operates in a corrupt way. When it comes to anti-corruption, it is no longer possible to fight in a normal way, but more radical prevention actions are needed. The fact is that in the area of health we face corruption within the entire system, both individuals, society and the state act in a corrupt way. Here we recall only the statements of the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. As a result of this case and the recommendations on systemic corruption rejected, we also decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to submit a request to the National Assembly for a parliamentary inquiry. On the basis of this parliamentary inquiry, we propose: to determine the possible liability of public function holders, those who are to participate in the preparation and implementation of the procurement procedure in the field of the acquisition of vascular restraints, to determine how much liability the former and current public function holders in institutions carrying out health activities related to the sale and purchase of vascular resistors are likely to have for the purposes of financing entirely other areas, and to determine the consequences of the cooperation of institutions carrying out secondary and tertiary health activities with Mark Medical. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the transparent work of healthcare institutions, purchasing services and doctors naturally increases confidence in health care, as well as the transparent work of law enforcement agencies increases confidence in the rule of law. It is a sad fact that, given our warnings given at the meetings of the committees and at the meeting of the National Assembly, no one is responding to media warnings and warnings of the profession. The fact is that health legislation needs a thorough overhaul that will or will help improve the quality of health services and reduce waiting lines, that the health system is not working and that there is corruption or systemic corruption within health care. See, because of all of this, we face cases in the field of health care, such as the fact that we still do not have a director of UKC Ljubljana, that we still do not have a director of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. Last year we had the case of the appointment of the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana, Mr Baricic, who was selected by the Council of the Institute of UKC Ljubljana at a public competition, so to speak without the programme. Let us remember that for this candidate, the Minister has long insisted on being appointed director. At the last meeting of the National Assembly, the Minister of Health listed the measures taken by the Ministry in order to reduce corruption. These measures include the adoption by the Ministry of Health in early 2015 of a protocol on the selection of candidates for founders in the Councils of Public Health Institutions. The adoption of the protocol, as they say at the Ministry, has pursued the aim of raising the skills and experience needed to perform the role of representatives of the founders of the public service councils in a qualitative manner. In view of all the events taking place at UKC Ljubljana, it would be difficult to say that these representatives are doing their job well despite the protocol adopted. We have also heard from Dr. Konrad Kuštrin at his last meeting on the appointment of representatives to the councils of public institutions, and I will quote this as "that this is only one cosmetic approach to the selection of new members of the board of the institution, but that political belongings still play a major role. Political affiliation is also the one that puts people in the most responsible or leading positions both managerial and lower in other management jobs". There is no doubt that there is a need for a change in the transformation of public institutions in accordance with EU law. More responsibilities and responsibilities should be given to directors of public institutions. More responsibility must also be required from representatives in public health councils. But there is still no appropriate amendment to the legislation. If I stay a little longer with these protocols and quality systems. We're all familiar with last year's neurological clinic case. See what helps if institutions have a quality and information system, if they are visited by an administrative inspection, when there is no epilogue at the end. No one has ever been responsible for the failure of the quality and information system to operate on the UKC, which provides for mandatory internal information, procedures, responsibilities and competences in the event of extraordinary events. Even in the case of cardiac surgery we have encountered this, even in the case of Bunz we can testify that the information system within the UKC does not work well. His head of the Cardiology Department did not know that data were being collected on their patients for the purpose of a specific register run by Bunčeva Society. So the chairman doesn't know what's going on in her department. However, that the matter was even more bizarre, the President of the Commission for Medical Ethics stated that the application was prepared in accordance with the instructions and that the Clinical Department of Cardiology was listed as the carrier. So the chairman doesn't know anything about it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this should also be the case for the exploitation of individuals with the assistance of the State and that, at the moment, the protocols and information systems of some of our institutions do not work. In its opinion on the previous meeting, when we considered the recommendation, the Government noted, inter alia, that regarding the financial rental of medical devices and equipment, this is not an illegal act and therefore the suspension of the responsible persons does not have a legal basis. In doing so, she ignored our warning that she was doing business for UKC Ljubljana, a real contract for the supply of reverse, a person who is not a legal representative of UKC and this person entered into a contract a month before the purchase decision. Nor did the Government comment in its opinion on our claim that in such cases it is the supplier of equipment to reverse, that it earns fat with service and consumption material. This means that in the long run for a hospital, renting a reverse is much more expensive than buying a device. The media also writes a lot about the transfer of money through public institutions over the years to different suppliers and the pressure of influential individuals to purchase certain equipment and materials. The pressure is applied to doctors if they refuse to cooperate, but they are resolved. But if these influential individuals fail to reach their own, these influential individuals also go to the president of the country. We probably know this statement from the Commission for the supervision of public finances. With this request for a parliamentary inquiry, however, we would like to draw attention to only one aspect of health maltreatment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We would like to establish the possible responsibility of public function holders to participate in the preparation and implementation of the procurement procedure in the area of the procurement of vascular restraints. The irregularities that are supposed to be taking place in this area are well known and also in the sky. Indeed, with its decision in March 2015, the Government first established joint orders for needles, diapers, gloves, catheters and so on, and the Ministry of Health stated in its opinion that because of the complexity of the procurement by content, volume and number of contracting entities and because of the fact that the joint public procurements are implemented for the first time, they have encountered major obstacles and their implementation has been carried over to 2016. Therefore, such a simple procedure has been going on for one year since March 2015. And so companies and individuals who are supposed to be involved in suspicious transactions are still contracting entities or suppliers. Sadly, however, these corrupt actions have resulted in the fact that the people who carry out these corrupt acts are protecting themselves, their friends, society, and the state is allowing them to do so. Dear fellow Members, this is systemic corruption. Of course, I want a successful job with the Commission of Inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Personally, I do not know the country with an ideal or zero level of corruption, and of course Slovenia is certainly not that country. Lobbies or, if we say so, interest groups operate in many areas and before that, we cannot close our eyes. Therefore, the measures that we are taking and which are also following such discussions or the work of such committees are necessary and are taken both in the State Assembly and in the Government, including in individual ministries, and are all aimed at the goal of zero tolerance to the emergence of corruption. Of course, it must be realized that there is no practical solution here tomorrow, and it is not possible. In the Desus Group, we believe that the problem of corruption is the whole of society, which needs to be addressed at all segments and levels, first where the possibilities for action and control of corruption and their consequences are greatest. Of course, health care is, unfortunately, no exception. It is subject to certain interest groups, individuals and businesses, which, in the field of procurement of medical supplies, implantable materials, medical equipment and, of course, investment in health facilities, generate huge and unjustifiable profits at the expense of public health system poverty. We devoted more than 12 hours of debate to this topic at the end of February and in early March, which was very broad and as such without the right answers, except of course the fact that we already know well that corruption is too much and that it is a major problem. That's what we already know. It is also a fact that this content will be dealt with in the future by a parliamentary inquiry initiated by the opposition. However, the question is whether such an investigation can in fact establish the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation and implementation of the whole procedure for the acquisition of vascular resistors, to which this investigative group and this commission are intended at the starting point, so I will think more in this direction. This procedure was carried out within the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana and was also responsible for a professionally sound decision and also for the procurement of vein support itself. There is no doubt that they were initially overpaid, indicating corruption that should primarily be dealt with by law enforcement authorities. Parliamentary investigations alone are all too often merely a harmless tiger, which does not most often bring more than a political charge to the cameras. By doing this, they would do a truly bad service to a large portion of health care that does good, works honestly and for the benefit of the patients. In Desus, we support the anti-corruption programme recently adopted by the government, together with the detailed definition of carriers and deadlines for implementing measures, and perhaps additional measures would be needed. We would particularly like an effective Commission to prevent corruption acting on the basis of modern legislation and with clearly defined procedures and competences. At the same time, we strongly doubt that we will come to such conclusions by means of a parliamentary inquiry, which would really constitute a step forward in the management of corruption either in health care or in the country at all. As a result, and also as a result of the additional costs associated with the functioning of the Commission of Inquiry, we ask ourselves about the relevance and true purpose of the proposed Commission of Inquiry. However, given that it will be established, we will cooperate in it to the best of our ability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič has a presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. A colleague and a colleague! The Group of Members and Members has submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry to address suspicions of health corruption. At one of the previous meetings of the Social Democrats, we have already taken up zero tolerance at the point of the Proposal for a Recommendation on Systemic Corruption in Health to Corruption. The conclusion that corruption is tactically embedded in our system is not new, but that such and other affairs are only fuelled by such findings. The Social Democrats will cooperate in the Commission of Inquiry with the desire to find optimal solutions that will allow the current legislation to be amended in order to break existing practices that today prevent greater transparency in business relations, practices that are not in the role of preventing corruption and conflicts, interests, and instead of eliminating systemic corruption, they are even more supportive. The social democrats once again claim that changes to the system are possible and also necessary. We hope that we all share the view that corruption is an unacceptable practice to which zero tolerance must be maintained. We stress that any form of corruption is unacceptable. In the case of health corruption, however, it must be so much more unacceptable, as it creates a system that directly affects the well-being and well-being of people. Corruption destroys the rule of law and the social state. Such practices prevent people from universal access to health services, allowing them the right to timely treatment. The outflow of money intended for health care directly endangers human life. We call it firm — no. The weaknesses of our system, which need correction, are well known, so I must move forward and also adopt the necessary legislative changes. By setting up an investigative commission, we also have the opportunity to cut this Gordy knot and claim responsibility. And if the purpose of this parliamentary inquiry is truly sincere, we believe that our common objective will be to condemn these practices, which we will also clearly define as unacceptable and commit ourselves to doing everything we can to overcome them. Social Democrats support any debate that helps to find solutions, but we warn that there will be no movement without a common commitment to the desired policy. However, we want this investigative commission to be an opportunity for a new policy where corruption will not be a city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. This act is not voted on by the National Assembly, so there is too much debate on it. The signatories to this request are known, and there is no United Left among these signatories. Although we were not invited to do so, even if we were, we would not be able to sign the request. The Socialists have no reservations about investigating the cost-effectiveness of the purchase of vein support, but we have serious reservations about the fact that the investigation is being led by the parties who led the government precisely in the years when the affair was publicised. If I recall, the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the Clinical Centre shall appoint and recall the Government, and then this Council shall be responsible for appointing and releasing leadership, as well as for exercising control. The bond affair was publicly disclosed in 2012, revealed by employees in the UKC themselves and reportedly not yet cleared. The proposaler points out, I will quote, "in 2014 prices are still partially reduced, but they remain high above average". Let us ask ourselves who were the bearers of leading public functions at that time. I will also answer this rhetorical question. From 10 February 2012 to 20 March 2013, Janez Ivan Janša from the right SDS served as Prime Minister, and from 20 March 2013 to 13 July 2014, she served as President of the Government. Alenka Bratušek from formerly Positive Slovenia. Both of the appointed parties are also signatories to the request, which states on the fourth page, quote, "it is in the public interest to determine why there has been multiple overpayments and why management and procurement services do not seek to obtain material at lower prices". I can only agree with that statement. It should be determined who is responsible for this. But I wonder, because I don't know why the proponents didn't immediately find out, but not that they wanted to find out today, four years later. It is likely that by acting without delay, they would prevent much of the alleged damage. If Bratušek and Janša are now looking into the responsibility for failure to act, this is about as if SD were to point the finger and yell in case of TES 6, receive the thief. The proponents' tactics are also extremely transparent – who can oppose the investigation of corruption? In this style, they then submit an offer, which cannot be rejected, and then, from this position, they very much moralise and divert attention, although they are the most politically responsible applicants themselves. In the United Left, we would not be able to sign under an investigation that has indeed irregular shortcomings. We're not talking about naked formalities here, but it's just the operationality of the commission. The comments of the Legal and Legislative Service have not been sufficiently taken into account, but in particular it is not defined which public function holders will be investigated. According to practice, the National Assembly investigates those officials who can be appointed or appointed by a political body. In this case, this means that we could investigate the responsibility of both governments already appointed. In principle, the responsibility of the members of the councils of the institution, who were appointed by the same two governments, comes with me. Here again we come up with a problem united in a password: crows do not turn off their eyes. The investigation will also not cover those who directly decided on the procurement, because it is the matter and competence of the Commission to prevent corruption and the police, in particular the National Investigation Office. In the United Left, they would also not be able to sign under an investigation based on the manipulation of alleged evidence. If we remove the ballast in this request, there remains the conspiracy theory about Mark Medical, who with our money finances the week Mladina. It's kind of a central narrative of the proposer. Only the article in the Reporter of 8 February 2015 can be found among the proposals for evidence in this regard. Yes, I'm not kidding. In fact, the core evidence is a highly credible reporter or an article in this officer. It is also accompanied by three audit reports from the Court of Auditors, which relate to waiting periods and do not have any connection with vein support. Then there is the fourth report of the Court of Auditors, which is provided with expensive medical equipment, magnetic resonances, radiation devices and so on. In short, no ventricles anywhere. As for the chronic evidence of the performance of UKC Brigitte Chokl, I can only say the following: such a confused statement would not apply to any court. It is not clear from this statement which company is involved, which supplies are not mentioned again, that some regional projects are referred to. This is also where the applicant selectively cited the statements. Mrs Chokl then made several more calls and provided at least two more important information. I quote again: "Yes, look, when you talked about this company, now I can't say I speak for UKC Ljubljana. 196 million euros to go to one such company in Italy in 10 years seems to me an incredible number." So what's the number now that's appropriate and appropriate? 196 million euros, as stated by John Janez Janša, or 86 million euros, as stated in the request? Next, Mrs Chokl then said this, and I quote again: "As far as what I have encouraged this debate is concerned, I will say so. I was talking about one other company, not the company Mr. Janša was talking about." So what company are we actually talking about? If the proponents so freely state the numbers and explain what the Witnesses have said, then we can expect a truly extraordinary, highly credible investigation. The applicants have been aware of this case for four years, but attention; they have not bothered to determine at what cost the other hospital’s walls in Slovenia are being purchased, nor have they tried to determine at what price the same goods are currently being purchased in UKC Ljubljana, whether the matter is being investigated by the National Investigation Office and what the results of such an investigation are. This is information of a public nature, because these are public contracts, public funds and at least some basic insight is possible. Above all, in the United Left, we could not sign up to a request that unrevealed interpretations of the causes of the health system and on behalf of our citizens impose reform requirements that go against the interests of these same citizens. I quote: "The current government has not prepared changes to health legislation in order to ensure greater transparency in the functioning of health institutions." That is what the applicant states. But the minister has prepared exactly the kind of law that increases transparency. The Act is called the Health Act and provides for the elimination of two main systemic causes of corruption in our public health system. First, here is the work of doctors from public institutions who work at the same time in private institutions. This is also the subject of the Commission's report to prevent corruption on healthcare professionals in 2014. Then there is the arbitral award of concessions at all levels without objective criteria and at the expense of public institutions. Even before this law was adopted by these measures, the applicants, in consultation with the Medical Chamber, began to break it with recommendations that the essential provisions should be withdrawn even before they were actually tabled. So much for the good intentions of the proposer and his investigative commission. Continued talk of corruption without concrete evidence only diverts attention from the essential problems in our public health system, which are legalised corruption, the exhaustion of the public sector due to internal privatisation, concession and inefficient commercial health insurance. Well, there are still administratively reduced prices in times of crisis and the reduction of funds earmarked for health care, as well as the actual fight against corruption, does not contribute to such an attack. At times, 500 million corruption losses were reported, but in 2014, the Government-led Association of Health Institutions produced a realistic assessment of EUR 50 million. This is about as much as the annual cost of our supplementary insurance premiums entirely unjustifiable in commercial insurance companies in the form of operating costs, profits and capital reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate of Members and Members, the speaker, Mrs Jelka Godec, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank all Members – Mr Kordish, I propose that you stay a little longer, because I would also like to prove your transparency in your debate, even if you do not want to, thank you for the debate and then you will listen. So, thank you very much to all the parliamentary groups for their kind of support in the commission of inquiry in the area of purchasing and selling vascular restraints that have taken place or are still happening. Of course, a colleague from the SMC acted as usual in all cases, when he proposes a point or submits a request by the SDS or the opposition to review and move the matter or criticise it with regard to the dictionary, the commas and so on, when he has no arguments, why he would say that he disagrees. But he said something that he agrees today that corruption is, but he cannot talk about the extent of this corruption and that he is happy to work in – that SMC is looking forward to working on an investigative committee and that, of course, it will keep an eye on not those we will investigate and do so, but on us, who will be the investigators, that it will not be the opposition of the impostors working. That we might not have done something wrong! I expect creative cooperation; I expect creative cooperation from all those who will participate or work in the investigative committee, and not from those who will be on the investigative committee to beat each other on the finger, so that they do not question too much and find out too much. A zero rate to corruption, we have already heard it the last time, and I also think it was a speech that zero rates – that is, ideally, that corruption will never be – we will never achieve it, but we are approaching this ideal. So let's cut back. If the taxpayer's money to treat patients flies through the window, if I say through the windows, that means it's not about treating people, and such things need to be stopped and this money drain reduced again to that zero level. What a colleague from the United Left said – their habit is always to tell those pamphlets, and then they go because somehow or somehow they don't want to face replicas or facts. The fact is why they can't sign, or they don't want, these requests, or they wouldn't., maybe because here things are related to vascular resistors and because colleague Kordiš mentioned Youth, is this: the founder of Mladina is Distriest, d. o. o., and another, which is unknown, the founder of Distriest is KB 1909, which is also the founder of Mark Medicala, who sold the venous cords at six times higher prices than on foreign markets. And if you go to see, I now mention all that we have from the Supervisor's data, we can read that he is an associate, an agent in Youth, for example, Mr. Tavčar Denis, who sits in KB 1909, and that he is members or Chairman of the Supervisory Board Perič Boris, who is also in KB 1909, and that he is in the supervisory world, which is most interesting for Mr. Kordiš, probably is that he is a member of the Supervisory Board of Mladina Branimir Strukelj – the one who is protesting with the United Left on the street. And now Mr Kordish is clear to the opposition, who was in the government in 2012, that we will investigate ourselves and why we have not done this before. But do you think that Mr. Janez Janša and the government and the minister, whatever, has an insight into every account that goes out on, say, the UKC or anywhere? That this information came out later, you all know that this has been dealt with by the KPK since 2013 and by the specialised state prosecutor since 2013 and that nothing has happened. And now you're reading to the opposition that, because it's no longer obvious, it's actually funny to investigate ourselves, that's fine. Then you have nothing to be afraid of, then you should be happy to support all these things, if you do, and now we'll be able to get SDS again, I'll say, toss. The data that came out again I stress you know that they came in later not to excuse anyone not to investigate, just, I'll say, one and the other, we'll investigate the purchase and sale of vascular braces that were sold in hospitals. And once again, to talk about transparency and the honesty of our intentions, I think, whether then I'm so naive that I'm proposing this and I'm too naive and now I'm selling some things. I think that all of you who have spoken have spoken honestly about wanting corruption in health to stop, limit, reduce to zero, but I think you're holding a fig in your pocket, some, not all, not everyone, not even those who will watch the investigative commission under your fingertips, that there will be nothing wrong. And if all those who will work in the investigative commission will work to stop it, to show up or reject it, to see corruption in health care has occurred, to be honest with everyone, and to come to conclusions that will also contribute to systemic solutions, and to determine whether the law really makes it possible, as one hospital director said: “Yes, the law allows us to steal.” But if the door's open next door, then let's steal, because he left the door open. What kind of mentality this is for hospital directors, czech, the law allows me to essentially flow money to somewhere else, so that public procurement can be such as to be written so as to suit exactly the supplier. That's ridiculous! The government has now put one call out for, I will give a clear example, for the education of unemployed women in the field of entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Do you know what the main requirement is? Knowledge of foreign language. Never mind — German, English, Bosnian, whatever. Knowledge of a foreign language for a lecturer. In addition, there are two, three criteria that are widely seen as being written for. Such public contracts, invitations to tender are open and this is what the director of one hospital says: “This is what the law allows us.” That's not true. I believe that the parliamentary commission, which is or will be signed by 30 Members, as has already been established, is, in fact, somehow, if I may say so, resolved to reach the conclusions it has drawn or proposed. And I believe that all Members of Parliament will be watching over the commission of inquiry, because it will come to the conclusions of the real ones. Not to look at the opposition if it's working right to make sure there's nothing wrong. Once again, with such a mentality to go to the investigative committee, it makes no sense at all. In view of how you are all discussing, in previous sessions and current meetings, how this needs to be clarified, how it should be done once. Then, in essence, you warn the proposer: Be careful, we will watch you! And when it's found out, anyway, things, I hope it comes to conclusions. As far as that is concerned, what Mrs Čoklov said is that this is not in any criminal case. See, the document received by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission has all those on board. The Supreme State Prosecutor's Office has given the specialized state prosecutor's office to investigate these statements made by Mrs. Čoklov on that commission, because the magnetogram thus includes suspicious services: "After a review of the decision and written material, the magnetogram of the meeting of 3. 2. 2016 I note that the suspicions of criminal services under your jurisdiction are reflected in the entries on pages 35 to 43 of the accompanying magnetogram. [[…]] The U.S. Attorney's Office requires the specialized state prosecutor's office to define it." This was given to the commission and to all members of the commission. So much for saying something. As far as these numbers are concerned, do we have the numbers, how they were sold, how they sold the walls or the ventricles. We've got them. We have them from 2012 first, even today. At that time, they sold themselves, or last year, for about 830 euros, about not to be able to speak exactly in cents. There's a sale today for 300 more. How could it be in one year, the same manufacturer, the same stent, and all the same went down by so much, but earlier after 1300? So I, I say once again, of course I want to be alone in this commission of inquiry, and perhaps later in order to come to the right conclusions, whatever they may be.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! But colleague Miha Kordish, Mr Miha Kordiš from the United Left, said one thing only well that there was no vote on this act. Of course not, since the act is properly tabled, it has a certain number of signatures of Members and Members. The New Slovenia Group also participated, and we are not talking about any company in the title, but we are talking about the area we want to explore, and this is the area of sales and supply of vein braces. Relatively narrow supply area. I think we do have a chance here if there is enough political will and leadership skills, which I have no doubt that the parliamentary investigation will come to this unfortunate story to the bottom. Health corruption has been growing in recent years and is becoming a major problem, so it is being given increasing attention. But Minister Gregor's nothing. Minister Gregor here is a symbolic name not only for the Minister or Minister of Health, but also for the Minister of Justice, because if we know that the problem of corruption in health has been growing for some time now and no one has done anything about it, then that is the problem. Then this is the problem and above all the problem of the government. Unfortunately, we pay all taxpayers. Of course, when we talk about corruption in health care, we encounter bribery in hospitals and hospitals, pharmaceutical companies use gifts and bribes in exchange for prescribing their medicines, there is much corruption in the purchase of equipment and the restoration of hospitals and so on. The vast majority of people believe that health corruption is a major problem. The vast majority of citizens are like that to me. A large part of the fight against health corruption can be provided by the state, I have already said, by a better regulation of the health system. And this is exactly what Nova Slovenija expects, waiting for a new regulation of the health system, if the reform is somehow a foreign term. New Slovenia has invested a lot of energy in health reform. Of course, we do not have the power to write all the legislation, but we do have a rather accurate model that some of you may already know. The big problem is waiting types where you can wait a year or two for some service. Of course, some in health care take advantage of this because patients are willing to do a lot of things in order to come as soon as possible. And health corruption in itself reduces people's trust, reduces quality and accessibility in the use of health services. I repeat, I am very sorry that this debate, many before that, many after this debate also listen to exceptional doctors, doctors, nurses, medical technicians, nurses. All those who work in the healthcare system work extremely professionally are world peaks, as we say. They work honestly, they don't look at the payroll, and they do have a patient, a patient, and his health at the forefront. I'm sorry that these shadows, which some create, actually reach for them, I'm really sorry. An important plan to reduce health corruption is to integrate anti-corruption strategies into health plans. I hope our Minister of Health is aware of that too. They are effective if they are adapted to the types of corruption that exist in the country. The health system can be strengthened by approaches to systematic treatment of corruption and by improving transparency and accountability. Transparency and accountability. Developing a strategy to complement and strengthen existing plans. The issue of health corruption must be integrated into the health sector's development strategy and external control and transparency must be promoted. The anti-corruption initiative should start at a point when a new health policy is being developed and when the government's commitment to reform is already in the process of drafting a coalition treaty, perhaps even in a pre-election campaign. In all of this, promotion and promotion of closer cooperation between health and management teams is crucial. Health corruption has been present for a very long time, but lately, thank God, the prevention of corruption has been paying more and more attention. The question is whether we can also record the effects of this anti-corruption attention. Given that we currently have only one health care provider, this is a health insurance company of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, I am surprised that if you allow one technical view now, I am surprised that we do not have good information about the procurement process in health care. Nevertheless, our health system is not a large organisation that could be compared with some large, successful multinationals who have a unified and, of course, well-informed purchasing system. We could see exactly how the procurement process is going. I agree. I'm sure what happened to us could not have happened to us. Informatics is one such technical tool, where, of course, it is the will to introduce such a system where transparency is possible, where transparency is possible, these systems exist, these solutions are finally allowed to buy that we may be too much, so and so that we have thrown too much money into the eHealth system, but we have forgotten to inform the business system, that is, the health system, that is, those business functions that each company has, even the smallest. Of course, I am now looking primarily at procurement. And if this system were really good, it shouldn't cost a lot of money, I don't want to speculate with numbers, but it's not some fun project. These solutions exist, they're on the market. It might take two years to implement, say, if we had more will, one year. That could be done. Now I'm thinking out loud. Why should a vein support in Ljubljana stand more than in Murski Sobota or in Slovenj Gradc or in an isolation hospital? I doubt the prices are uniform. This payer – and here is our mistake, the payer is only one, this is a mistake of this health system – and this payer does not move at all. And he's probably got a chance, because he knows what he's paying for, or he's opening a pipe and the money's flying. Of course, that's easy to do if it's not your money when it's public money. Who's gonna get a headache? Maybe he's got something. So this is one solution, because the President of the Government always invites us to look for solutions because we are Slovenians. This is one solution, and I hope that there will be some response to this debate, too, Madam Minister. If any item in the budget is foreseen or is already foreseen for 2016, which is certain to do so, I will definitely support this item. Because it will certainly prevent systemic corruption in health care at systemic level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Laj has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u166	Madam President, thank you for the floor. All present, all together, a very nice greeting! There is a suspicion of systemic corruption in health care. At least 12 extraordinary meetings of the Health Committee, at least 2 extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. Nothing. Investigations carried out. Nothing. I wonder where the bodies of the investigation are, where are the law enforcement authorities, the KPK, the judiciary? What's going on? Why do we always and always have to discuss the same subject in the National Assembly? Can someone answer that question? I expect an answer. I am sorry that there is no one in charge here to get an answer today, but we would change our minds and say that we do not need this investigative commission. You know why? Because if we continue at this pace, then I think we will be run out, because there will be so many investigative commissions that there are simply not enough Members and Members to manage this situation. That's ridiculous. I don't know how that's possible. And to continue, this is happening in public institutions. You're all saying there's a suspicion. The public office has its own governing bodies, its managing body, its own board of institutions, its own supervisory authorities, its own internal bodies. I think there's almost no public agency that doesn't have an ISO certificate. What this means is that the ISO certificate is checked every so long whether the control systems operate in the business system or not and lose the ISO certificate. I don't know how it's possible for us to keep going back to the same subject without an epilogue that's not proud of us or the healthcare staff – I'm sorry for those honest ones – not the health treasury, no one. And it is precisely because we have finally stopped these infertile debates, because there is no epilogue, that I will support this investigative commission, in order to come up with certain systemic useful solutions that we will be able to implement through our power, legislative powers into a systemic solution in health care, both in the field of public procurement and in all other areas. And here I see the real meaning, because we can understand how a thief can get a thief — to get a chance. Obviously, it all points to whether this is so highly suspected that thieves have the opportunity to get rich at the expense of taxpayer money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor and Mr Marijan Pojbič is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u168	Dear colleagues and colleagues! While we are talking in principle about the very complex situations that have prevailed in Slovenia since everything that exists in this country, namely systemic corruption in various areas, today is specific in the field of the health system. And corruption in Slovenia, in principle, and the general is a problem, big problem is corruption in Slovenia. The ruling coalition, when forming a coalition treaty, has also detected this problem and, in one large part of the coalition treaty, has presented its fight against corruption in two large segments, but at the end of my debate. What about health-related corruption? Health corruption is what hurts the most, but you know. It hurts the most. For the money collected for the treatment of persons, for our hospitals, for the operations, for the treatment of children and for this money is, in principle, a lot less, this money disappears into the private pockets of individuals. That's why it hurts. For this is a threat to the lives of men. The lives of ours and your children, all of us. And as a result, this corruption in health care is the most painful and, finally, the entire system is crippled, the system is disabled. On the one hand, therefore, we are faced with a lack of money in health care, we are faced with a need to change the health system because demographic policy is the same as it is, and that the demographic picture shows that the payers in the health system are becoming less and less, to change the health system, to work on health reforms, to meet with this problem, so we face this problem, and on the other hand, we have cases where money flows into private pockets to individuals. But be careful, that's not all. The reason for this meeting today was the Member of Desus himself, the Vice-President of the Party, if I am not mistaken and the V.D. Director of UKC Ljubljana, Mrs Čoklov, when she said or admitted at one of the meetings of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission that the money for vascular leaks to certain companies in the Slovenian place. In her explanation, she said that Slovenian foreigners should be supported. After all, the Director later apologized for her statement, but the way, this is recognition, the recognition that the money is leaking, that we are paying the cords four times. And it doesn't just end up in the veins. And then, in the end, you ask yourself where the epilogue is. Mrs Čoklov here admitted that money is leaking, that money goes in place of explanation, we support Slovenian foreigners, but individuals are still in positions in UKC Ljubljana at the time of the acquisition of venous braces. Mr Zorman, then the procurement director Bojan Uran, also the chief lawyer who cares about contracts and also knows about this contract, Mrs Valentinčič is still in UKC Ljubljana. Nobody gets hurt, nobody gets hurt. In a case that we discovered in the National Assembly two months ago, three months ago. And we can continue to sow, we can continue to debate, but if the government does not act, if the government does not act on this case, which is a very loud case, because the government has a majority in the UKC Ljubljana World if the government does not act, then we will never come to a solution to the problem, we will never come to it. The government owns UKC Ljubljana and has full responsibility for the cash flow into private pockets from UKC Ljubljana. The problem is justice. Epilogues in previous cases of suspected corruption and clienteleism in the health system are very large. Look, from the O.R., the Oncology Institute, the Pediatric Clinic, the resistance, if you want all of these epilogue cases to be convicted or if you want those people to sit down, we don't know the epilogue. Also three years ago, due to the purchase of pharmaceutical equipment, and so on, the epilogue from these stories is nowhere. It is sad, I repeat, that this is an account of Slovenians and Slovenians, taxpayers and ultimately health, human health. I will conclude with one statement made by the Minister before the appointment at the hearing, a hearing before the parliamentary committee. When all these people are lobbyists, when I asked her about corruption in the health system, which is systemic when she said they were stakeholders in the Slovenian health system. Look, ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for such shareholders! Thank you very much for such shareholders who steal taxpayers' money at the expense of children, at the expense of sick people and at the expense of health. I ask how many people, also because of corruption and ineffective combat, the conflict of the ruling anti-corruption policy could die, literally could die. We know cases in recent weeks that the Government will decide to act. How many people will have to go to that side to say in the National Assembly, let's do corruption in the health system for once. Until we do so unanimously, then the solution is not in sight for a long time. In view of the fact that we are also ineffective in the management of companies, for example UKC Ljubljana has been without leadership for 3 years now, full-fledged management has been said to have been V.D. Directors, V.D. Directors for three years. That's exactly what I'm talking about. And this story, let's say, with the ZZZ will happen again, because Mr Fakin has already received a majority in the Assembly, which the National Assembly, when we heard the ruling coalition, will not back up again. The saga will continue next year. You know, we don't have legal guidance in UKC Ljubljana, which has 7,000 employees, because it has millions, hundreds of millions going through its cash register and the ZZZ, which has a budget of 2.5 billion euros, that these two companies don't have leadership, that's an ideal bed, like a fungus, for corruption. It's an ideal bed. But that's not on the opposition right now. We can only help you here, my dear ruling coalition. This is up to you to say who will be the director of the UKC, who will be the director of the ZZZS. And blinding yourself about not blaming you. Who's to blame?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Matthew Tonin, followed by Mr. Andrey Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I must commend Mr Lai, and before that, I listened very carefully to him in his debate. Obviously, he had to leave the SMC to be able to speak exactly what he thinks is right. And today he has said some very important and quality thoughts. I think that's what the National Assembly needs. Not a SMC client who speaks one way, does another, but such people, such Members and Members of Parliament, who say here what lies on our hearts and we do only what the electorates and voters have imposed on us – to solve their problems and their problems in their favour. When I looked at this schedule of announcements of time in the debate on this point, I must tell you and say this not only because I want to say it, but that the Slovenian public hears it. Amazingly, it is truly amazing what a coalition, the Mir Cerar Party, Desus Party, SD and the United Left Party are to announce, for example, the time to debate at this point, the SMC's strongest party, I think with 35, 34 Members, 15 minutes of debate on such a key issue as corruption in the Slovenian space. 15 minutes, can you imagine that? It is said that they make direct public jokes from the Slovenian people. The most ethical party in this society that promised before the elections how they would deal with the mob in this country, how they would deal with corruption, how they would deal with all those who had not done anything before that for citizens and citizens to choose new faces. My dear citizens and citizens, it is my duty to say this very publicly and clearly, now you have before you the most ethical party of Mir Cerar, who has reported in the debate on the most important issue at this time in this society in this country 15 minutes to discuss. The Slovenian Democratic Party, the opposition party, has reported 90 minutes for this debate because it finds this issue extremely pressing, extremely problematic and urgently necessary with all the responsibility of all institutions in this society, which have any such or other options, to scold them to do everything they can to achieve this goal. And then we have generous people saying big things about how they're fighting for this country, how they're fighting for pensioners, how they're fighting for pensions, how they're fighting for corruption in this country. And they signed up for the debate, I'm talking about Desus, of course, five minutes. Dear pensioners and pensioners in this country, please listen to me when I talk about such important information. These are the ones who advocate your interests and goals in the National Assembly. Five minutes have been reported as the most pressing problem that currently plagues this country. And then we have to not talk in superlatives about those who talk about superlatives that touch social states. Throughout the SD in this Parliament, he speaks of how the biggest advocate of social policy is in this country and so on. And if this party thinks that corruption is not related to the poor status of the people living in this society, then this party has made an extremely serious mistake and has reported today for a debate of 15 minutes. 15 minutes. And at the expense of the corruption that is taking place in this country, the most impoverished are those groups that are most problematic because they cannot survive in this society. And the party that is talking about social support, which is talking about how socially excluded or those who live on the brink of survival should help, is today when we talk about corruption in this society – but I will support everything I am now saying with important information, and on this basis citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to see for themselves what I wanted to represent and tell them in this debate, and they will be able to shape their views on these parties, to which we speak the coalition together with the United Left. They'll be able to form their own opinion of who they voted for. So that we don't ever get wrong again when they go to the elections, and for these parties, we give our vote because it would be a total total execution. It's a total disaster. And this coalition, this government of this Slovenian nation is leading to total destruction. To total destruction. And today she showed with this list when she applied for this debate, that she doesn't care, or even — which I think — is a great story in the background, but she supports, helps that story, that corruption continues in this society. It's not entirely irrelevant when the name Stefka Kučan is highlighted. Yesterday we listened to Kocijancič, Janez Zemljeric and so on. Yeah, what kind of circle do these people belong in? What circle? They have all the systems, all the subsystems under total control and beyond their capabilities, most likely – I cannot prove this – because we have the appropriate authority or authority in this country – they launder the state budget. And instead of getting the pensioners 500, 600, 700 Euros of pension, they get 350 now. 350! Those who receive social assistance, those who are unemployed, who are almost 130,000, get so much that they cannot die and not survive. I will now reinforce these reflections on how the coalition and the government support the reduction of corruption in this society, with the following information. Dear colleagues, do you remember what I showed in this House yesterday? Did you read that? If you're not, please read this a hundred times, today, today, that this story will come into your brain, that you will start thinking that something is wrong, that something is wrong. Something can't be right and here's an article on top reads: “Slovakia, go mad! Logically, I think it's going to happen sooner or later. Corruption consumes us 4 billion euros a year. Corruption will consume 4 billion euros a year and SMC will report to this point of discussion for 15 minutes. The most powerful, most responsible party at this time when we are talking about the leadership of this country and when we are talking about who has to exercise in hand, so that he can put this corruption in some particular position or zero position, real corruption is zero, report 15 minutes of debate on this issue. And then we listen here to an expert who masters everything that can happen in the world, says – interestingly because I wrote it down – “We forget, among other things, that this is not a tool of the opposition.” He spoke of this investigative commission: “We warn that this is not just the opposition.” We in the Slovenian Democratic Party and all those, New Slovenia and those who have submitted this request, have not talked about whose tool it is, we have talked about that we want to get to the bottom of this 10th potion, find those political asses that have open accounts in America and find out which parties sitting in the current coalition are those who in such a quiet or different way support this happening, instead of having 90 minutes of reported time here and discussing it clearly before the entire Slovenian public, that they are an ethical party because they want to get to the bottom of this matter. And look, the sad truth, the really sad truth: the United Left is not, the SD is just the Vice President here, because it has to be here, Desus is, well, at least I have an opinion about Desus, but as far as SMC is concerned I have nothing to comment on, you are present I must say, thank God, at least this. When we spoke today and when these positions spoke about corruption, as I said before, they gathered together half the time, as reported by the Slovenian Democratic Party, half the time, everything. And this is what Slovenian citizens and citizens should trust? Come on, are you kidding?Oh, my God! Perhaps even since I spoke earlier about the SD and it is true that there is also a hearing, Madam Vice-President, what is not, in the National Assembly there are Members who are obviously clearly proven to have done great illegal things, such as the Centre for Social Work of Trbovlje and so on, sitting here today in Parliament, so today it is not here, I think that this belongs to SMC, if I am not mistaken, I apologize, Madam Vice-President, SMC, to say the most ethical party that I have ever heard not only in Slovenia, I think in history, because such a party will never again. That's a fact. As we can see, the coalition has demonstrated by this action how much it cares about preventing or preventing this corruption from occurring where it belongs today, with regard to this meeting, to this debate. Yesterday, this information I'm talking about came about four billion euros of money that goes missing from the state budget. In order to be able to manipulate the media in the background, they put their editors who can do whatever they want, poor journalists, 80% of all these, I'll say, regime media don't have a word. I was, I have to say, sometimes hard on them, and it seems to me that was extremely wrong, because I should have convicted the editors, not the journalists. I talk to journalists from all such and other media outlets, and they tell me: “Mr. Member, don’t judge us, because it’s not us who are responsible and responsible for this. Editors. You have to ask yourself who put the editors and where the money is for you to have control of the complete system of regime media. Where'd the money come from? Yeah, the answer came in here. Look, here's the answer. Read it, that's the answer. Four billion a year, a year! And we have a billion 300, billion, 400 budget deficits there. Can you imagine, only for half or a third of them would do so and in the end this government could show how capable it is, how moral-ethic, this party Mira Cerar is also, how moral-ethical, and would ultimately show a surplus over expenditure. If only for half that banditry in our society was reduced, banditry that went beyond every line of good taste. And the stand to keep banditism on the one hand, and on the other hand to talk about how you will achieve what some others are not before you, is a big question of how long this is possible. Those who have 350 or 450 euros of pension will say to Erjavka: "Come on, listen, boy, now is the last time to retire, because for you, we will not do any more work besides all of our expenses, which we have every month." And they're going to do the same with Mira Cerar's client, the most ethical client, because there's nothing to start with. It's just a cost at the end, just a cost. 35 Members to report to the debate for 15 minutes. No kidding, no. Don't joke. Yeah, where do we live?Oh, my God! And in the end, you all look at me like I fell off the moon. And people know exactly what I'm saying is exactly what the truth is, the absolute truth, because no one has to deny it, no one. If it is a problem for anyone sitting in this House to draw attention to what the Finances have written to you and because they have written “Slovakia, go mad! Corruption devours us 4 billion euros a year"If you think that's the problem that I'm the problem when I say that? No, the problem is what I told you last night, and I'll say it a hundred times. Close the door, lock everything, have the press wait for us here to figure out what we're gonna do. The government is supposed to be sitting tonight, last night, I think it's an ambush because it's not here, because I think it's an ambush or something, or something, I don't know now, but I think it'd be right to sit down. I've been sitting down. I've been sitting down. I've been sitting, so long as we can at least halve this shit, this bandit, these thieves who steal that money in a cup. And really, look, how could I trust a SMC client when we're talking about corruption? How? Look at the supervisors you named when it came to SDH, I'm sorry, I couldn't remember, but it's nothing wrong, even sometimes I can forget things because I'm just human. [[…]] SDH, yeah, look what you got at the end. The people who made such a huge, 8, 10 billion holes in the banks, you've now placed them there in key positions. And at the end of the day, you expect citizens and citizens and I ass, if I say so myself, to believe that you are serious and that you have zero tolerance for corruption. And then today, when you signed up for this debate for 15 minutes, you showed me that I was right! That exactly what I'm saying is fact and truth. That's what you confirmed. You don't have to hide that. And this is a document that people can always get in the hands of and get. When the elections are held, I will be the first one to go to all the media and tell what zero tolerance Mir Cerar's client has; a modern centre – this is a story for me that I do not have, and people don't understand it in the right way, but they understand it very well, Mira Cerarje's client, because Mira Cerar has been elected and those who are sitting here. The fact is, I will say: “Look at the moral-ethical attitude of the Mir Cerar Party!” Now, I hear Desus is joining up in the back, and the SD is making a special client, where he'll be at the key position of Tanja Fajon. Do you think that's what people want? No, no, no. I'm telling you, no. People won't fall for this bullshit anymore because you're all in the coalition supporting corruption. If it wasn't, I'm not talking about Members not to offend anyone, personally, but I'm talking in the context of the coalition and the government, if it wasn't, today, like I said, we'd be discussing 90 minutes here and saying, we're all stepping in together, it doesn't matter who [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u171	Mr. Pojbich. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u172	Sorry, we're talking about corruption. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u173	We've been listening to something else for 20 minutes now. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u174	Yeah, and I'm gonna talk for ten more minutes because we're talking about corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u175	But talk to the oak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u176	Madam Vice President, Madam Vice President!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u177	I'm listening. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u178	Please, I never disturb you when you talk, because you know that I'm very correct, even when you're here, you've set up, I think you've represented the position of the Member, I've been completely quiet, so calm. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u179	You may proceed, please. Please, if you'll continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u180	Please, because you won't gain anything with this. To me, taking the word is the biggest mistake in the National Assembly, because you have to ask people what they think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u181	I understand, but I didn't take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u182	Well, I know you didn't, I'm saying that would be a mistake. Madam Vice President, because you're always trying to stop me from breaking the red thread, but it won't work. Now I would continue to do this and move closer from the global part of my debate, to the more central work, about what we talked about today. But what I said in the first place is the most problematic and most important, and it is right that we try to seduce the story by finally knowing exactly what we wanted. I know exactly what I was going to say, and I'm behind it, and I'm not giving up on it. Mrs Čoklov said that – I have a magnetogram here and I will only read one piece, I will not read the whole, because otherwise we still have plenty of time in the SDS, so I can read the whole, because I know you're bored, but it's okay to hear something from you, well, I think that this lady from Desus is called there as a doer of duty. Mrs Brigita Čokl said at the 25th session of the Commission on Public Finance Control on 3 February 2016, quote: "But I know that there is a company owned by foreign Slovenians, and I will say, yes, look, I can tell you exactly the name, also the name and surname, because I ran into this person when I was looking at the list of suppliers. And I'm gonna ask myself something else. Why do we, as the Republic of Slovenia, know about such matters...« This is what Mr. Jansho mentioned. "I've seen this for the first time..." Because Mr. Janša was discussing it. “... I saw for the first time a little less than one month since I am in UKC for a month and a half, we still have such a generous support for Slovenians in place. Never mind. Look, it doesn't matter. I'm going to say this because these people are one and the same, and these people, and I know I'm going to say this, exactly if they don't reach their own, they come to the Bureau of Foreign Affairs, if they don't reach them, they go to other institutions, they go to the President of the Government, and they go to the President of the country. I'm sorry, I've been through this myself." This is the current acting director of UKC Ljubljana, as it is written, Mrs Čokl, Brigita Čokl. And look at the incredible story that happened the next day. Mrs. Brigita Chokl canceled everything. And you think that one of you sitting here is such a fool to believe this nonsense. If I say here today that I have done whatever I have done in my life and cancelled tomorrow, 100 % of what I said today is what I said, then you know there must be something wrong with me. But this lady is still a doer of duty, but this is not the most important thing for her to withdraw her statement, is a high probability, a high probability that in the end she may even be the director of UKC Ljubljana, because here, if I can read to you, see what it says today in Finance. Sir, don't do this. Finance writes: »The doctor Zvonko Hočevar from UKC Ljubljana is also supposed to apply. Despite its different predictions, the candidate is also expected to be the current acting director-general of UKCL Brigita Čokl, Desus. That's what it says today. Here you go. Take a look. But you read the papers. If you don't read, look, then I don't know, I don't understand, then I really don't know what to say. That's what it says. That's what that means. First, and that's an old strategy. You know what we're talking about. When a man tells the truth, he has to be intimidated into canceling everything, and then because you have something to hold him for, you offer him a solution, and then he has to do exactly what you've imagined. And if only someone here in this House tells me that Marjan Pojbič is wrong, he is a liar for 150th potential and we all know in this National Assembly that it is a fact and a truth. We're just sealing our eyes. Politicians shouldn't, because if politicians didn't close their eyes, what it says here, it wouldn't be. And if anyone sitting here in this House is not alarmed, it is for the Slovenian Democratic Party. I have also proposed and will propose to the leader of our party's parliamentary group that we convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, because this is the absolute greatest and most important problem of this society and this country. Every year we borrow a billion, two to complete the start and end of the state budget. If we do this, we will only halve, dear colleagues and colleagues, it will no longer be necessary, and tomorrow we are doing what the government of Janez Janša did when we had our surplus for the first time in the history of Slovenia. These are the facts. No one can deny it, and it seems to me that this is what is crucial for all of us, that we begin to really solve the real problems of this society once and that we are not joking, laughing, sitting and boredoming each other, because one of you has no interest in making things clear. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in New Slovenia we have this interest. I also have to commend the unrelated Members here, and I must commend them for every honor they have today, when I have listened to their opinions, very clearly defined the issue. That seems very important to me, and thank them. And of course, the two gentlemen from the local community, Mr Gönça and my friend, have absolutely made it very clear that they are opposed to such swine. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm sure, believe me, no matter how many of us sit here in Parliament right now, even a lot of people hear this story, I'm sure that after all these discussions that we've done here today, no matter what the coalition thinks, what the Party of Mir Cerar thinks and what Desus and the Social Democrats think, no matter what they say, it's one thing, and the other is, look, I know the stories that they're involved in, today someone has already warned, I think that, Mr. Lai, no, someone else, I don't know, maybe even in the position. Oh, yeah. The combined left about the story TES 6 and so on and the combination of the jester lobby and so on. I think SD has a lot of work to do there. The pamphlets here speak when you represent the position of the Member, and on the other hand, most of what's going on there, and it's happening, at least what's going on, is swindling. At least it's cheating. And really look, can you imagine what one billion is? That's a thousand million euros. Thousands of millions of euros. You tell that to simple people, and I'm never in my life, and I can't imagine what that means. That's what they said in there that I don't know how many pallets of money. Not to mention €4,000 million and people cannot live in Slovenia. 30% on the edge of poverty. Pensions 300, 400, 500 euros. Catastrophe, shame. Not to mention minimum wage, there's always more people on minimum wage. And then there's this tax bill and I'm not gonna tell you to destroy all the other societies and so on. It's the story of the coalition, it's the story of those who tell us brains. This has to be done. We must have zero tolerance for corruption, every individual who sits in the National Assembly, the Government and all institutions in this society. However, I am, in addition, very disappointed at the way the judicial branch does its work. This is some incredible story in this society. I hope, I expect, and I believe that we are therefore opening up questions to the politicians, so that the relevant branches of government will react to what we open, in accordance with the legislation, and then lead things to some point and condemn this gang stinkingly. It's more than a gang to steal your $4 billion a year. It's more than a gang, it's amazing, it's amazing. And SMC registers with 15 minutes in such a debate and this is supposed to be party number one. I also conclude with this, of course I will support this, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, I hope and ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, and what I have discussed today do not take personally, but take into account the context that I have been talking about, that together we will find the appropriate way to step on the fingers of this criminal society, which is anchored in all times of our lives. If we're gonna do this, trust me, people will know how to reward it. They're waiting for their chance. As politicians, we owe them this privilege because they voted for us in the elections. And this isn't about the customer slogan or the program, just the decision of everyone sitting here. The decision is crucial. I'm sure we can do this if we want to do this, if we want it, but not with the kind of relationship I've made today, that the biggest government party will report 15 minutes of time, just so long as time passes. Instead of harshly condemning everything that is happening and the topic today, when we talk about €4 billion of an annual place of money, the most important issue of all time, what has ever been in the history of Slovenia, is the most important question for everyone sitting here, even if we leave everything else behind, is far more important because we can pay all social transfers, we can pay pensions, we can raise everything, we can do anything if we spend 4 billion euros a year stolen by those corrupt thieves. We will be able to do all of this without dealing with whether we can raise the pensioner by 0.4%. Don't make fun of me. Don't make fun of my people. By God, how do you imagine that? Indeed, because I think so, if we do this, we will not need 0.4%, Erjavec will really succeed in what he has promised in sayings that a thousand euros in pension will not know when, and he will be able to do so. But not in such a way that he holds a stand for those who steal 4 billion a year, no, not in that way. Miro Cerar also, the moral ethics written there is meaningless, it is necessary to realize what has been said, and that is the point. SD – social policy, please, what social policy if you allow them to wear cubicles here and those poor people standing there, I apologize, but I didn't mean that in such a context, poor people stand in line and wait for those pairs of euros to get to survive, the state is thus unable to open one job, help everyone, create the conditions that should be done, is not capable. That government, that coalition by no means. Only the government of Janez Janša was able to do so when it accepted the leadership of the country in 2004. 2008, when she completed her term of office, there were only 56,000 more unemployed, which is already too much, 40,000 new jobs opened up. It's the right policy of the right government. And if that option were to do it, I would really put the hat down, I would be the happiest man in the world. Because my interest in politics is that people have a job so that they can survive their lives as normal as they can so that the pensioner can start the month and end the month. These are my goals, and that's why I went to politics. Not because I'm arguing with the left or any of the parties here in Parliament. I believed that, together, we would step forward, that when I first came to Parliament, that was when it really happened, we succeeded in 2004-2008 in extremely big things and in 2008 we would even end up with the surplus of the budget. I then believed that these things would develop and go in this direction when the economic growth was 8% in Slovenia, in Europe 4%. I believed it. Then comes the government of Borut Pahor, 10 billion in two or three years of borrowed money, and no money. Nowhere. He didn't use it for anything, he didn't invest in anything, he didn't do anything, he didn't do anything, he didn't do anything. Except for the big taxes, and today we're paying 1.5 million interest. For 32, 33, 34 billion government debt. But 2008 was 8 or 8,5 or 8,7 or 7,8, because I don't know exactly, I apologize. And that's what makes us different. Which makes us different. And that is why I can never identify myself with those who do harm to this country and be equal to those who do harm to this country, but I want to be equal to those who benefit our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why I am sitting in this House. We will see this sooner, it will be easier for us, we will be more successful and people will not have such a weak assessment of politics, about the national assembly, about government and so on and so forth. I hope that once or at least sooner than later we start thinking this way. My client works, this is the Slovenian Democratic Party, all to get to this goal as soon as possible and once to cut off the real abuse that is happening to us in the background, these networks and so on, spider nets and so on. I mentioned a few people today, and we all know that's true. We all know that's true. And if I don't cut it today, someone's gonna cut it next year, two years from now, three years from now, or four years from now, someone's gonna do it because they have to. We may still be able to go to 40 billion, borrow money — What then? My grandchildren won't be able to live on anything. What do you think they're gonna say to me? Grandpa, what's wrong with you? When they realize the reality of the situation that we brought our grandchildren into. If I'm crazy, my grandkids will talk to me. It's unacceptable, I won't allow it, and I won't allow what's in my power. I tell you the truth, I really don't mean it because someone wrote this to me because I hate it the most, unless you quote things, someone to write to you, and in the end you read, and you don't know what you read. Today I have listened to one such story, and I will not now expose people, because I am trying to try not to do it to get down to the personal level, but I have to say that I am sufficiently viewed even if I am a "feck" from the Sweet Top to understand things, but I have learned something or learned something, whatever. And I understand that if someone writes something that they don't believe in, it bothers me terribly. Such Members or Members of Parliament have nothing to look for here. They don't have anything to look for here. People have chosen us to think here with our heads. No one can stop me when it comes to important things about the future of the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people and those people who voted for me. Nowhere and never. Now I'm really going to finish. I wouldn't have taken that long, but it's been a while, and I think it's best if I say what I think. I'm asking you again, not to support this today, because that's not the key. It is clear that it is right to support this in order to explore political responsibility, but it is more crucial that we draw the line once again to these extremely rotten, corrupt rabbis in Slovenia. That's the key. And we can do it, believe me, we can do it if we want. And we're not gonna be putting ourselves on the left, the right or the yellow anymore, either, or I don't know, because it sucks. And speaking here one, working on the other side, is unacceptable. It's unacceptable. That is why I believe that we can do this, and we must do it in the interest of our people. We must do so in the interest of the Slovenian people. Because I never want to see it again in a newspaper, any newspaper. Never again. Never again. Really never again. Never again. I trust all honest Members and Members that we have a common objective and common interest in this context, and I ask you very much to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u183	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. In this I don't even know what to call it, I won't even postulate, far from it, don't be afraid, there are a number of procedural issues and complications that we actually need to clear up. [[…]] Let's leave it at least 20 times that you've advertised to some media when you've picked up a newspaper there, and that doesn't bother me that much, but you've talked about topics that don't have anything to do with today's point of view. What still seems important to me is that if you already use the names of political parties, let them name them as they are, and they are entered in the register, in the APIES, because otherwise I will start using the name for your client as you will not like. But that's not my way, that's not my style. But it is only right that the President will, of course, point out your actions. Third time. You must know something, and here I ask you, the President of the National Assembly: Have we done something wrong? I believe that it is the autonomous decision of each parliamentary group to determine the time. Now, if you can't say this in 15 minutes, which I don't doubt, that's your problem, of course, but let every group of Members decide for themselves how long she'll say something she's decided at each point. And what's even more important, you know, it doesn't matter how long you talk, but what you say. All this time, I haven't been able to figure out what you really wanted to say because I think you missed the point. Finally, which seems even more important to me, but above all this and here I invite you, the President, to remind the Member to read the title of the agenda item once again, because I think he has really missed his debate completely. So I suggest you, Mr Pojbič, at least let me read what you have proposed if you are already discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u185	Procedural, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u186	Mr President, as I will be very brief, but at the very least, I would expect a colleague who has now debated on behalf of the SMC to understand that I have been talking about corruption in Slovenia. And the agenda item today is about corruption in the subsystem, it's the health system, and that was what was crucial. That's what I was talking about here today. Mr Member, I hope you've heard of corruption before. Mr President, I would really warn you to warn your fellow Member if he has never heard of the word corruption before in his life, so that you can explain it to him, please, that he will understand what I am talking about today. So he doesn't move around here, and he won't talk complete nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u187	Now I can finally answer the procedural question. Therefore, in this point, we are talking about the Act on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigations for the Amendment of Laws and Other Decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and the determination and assessment of the actual situation for the determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, which should be involved in the preparation and implementation of — this point, and in fact here we get the object — of the procurement procedure in the field of sales and the acquisition of vascular resistors, because of the suspicion that procedures and transactions have been conducted in a non-economic and non-transparent manner that the consequences of such behaviours and the suspicion of health corruption in the field of sales and the acquisition of vascular cords are still undetected. This is the subject we are discussing. I will not remind anyone because of the slight misuse of procedural debates, but we will continue to discuss this subject, please. Mr. Magg has the word. Matthew Tonin, prepare for the mag. Branko Grims and Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u188	Good evening! I know my friend Pojbich as an emotional debater, so sometimes he gets carried away, but I don't blame him. The fact is that today we are discussing one of the key themes of this country, is how we will regulate the health system in a way that will not drain money from this healthcare system. Let me also comfort my colleague Pojbič that at least the New Slovenia Group has announced the maximum time, precisely because this is an important topic for us to discuss seriously and to understand the reasons why this corruption in the Slovenian health system is possible. First, we need to explain or accurately understand why all these anomalies allow. We are also one of the few countries in the world that has only one large health insurance company called the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia or short ZZS. And into this great Slovenian health insurance company all of us who are employed are paying into this system, into this cash register. And, of course, all health services are financed from this cash register. And in my opinion, the problem with this system is that we have a huge bag that we're all throwing money into. And since this bag is huge, the review of the use of this money is worse or worse. And in cases where you have a big bag of money, it's easier to do that for someone else or a lot easier to pay. And just vascular support is a typical case where at one part of Europe with approximately the same level of development, if you want, certain providers reach a diametrically different price. In Slovenia, we pay three or four times as much for the same material as in neighbouring Austria. This is the conclusion that we all agree with, we all know it, we're all familiar. And the fundamental question is, what are we going to do about it? In my opinion, such anomalies are possible and it happens that we overpay some material three times or four times because we have money, a large bag that is sort of common. In such cases, it is much easier to agree on a higher price, and then this supplier makes some kind of return via sponsorship contracts or other advisory contracts and the money turns around. And if this essential flow of corruption and crime in the Slovenian health system is to be changed, then it is also necessary to break this practice of action somehow. In Novi Slovenija we have prepared a resolution in which direction we want the Slovenian health system to change. If anyone in this room believes that the Slovenian health system is okay, fine, then we're idiots. But I believe that the vast majority of you have experience, that everything in this health system is not okay and that it needs to be changed. And if you talk and debate with people a little bit more, they'll tell you that those who pay or know someone come a little early. And there will be no mistake in underlining very clearly, because then some are throwing this against us as a counterface, New Slovenia and I personally advocate public health. Once again, I'm in favour of public health. I hope my colleagues in the United Left heard that too. However, I am advocating a different way of financing this public health care because the current system is unsustainable. This system is such that it allows a number of people who are not authorized to do so to take something else for themselves and eventually to come up with such stories that we are setting up an investigative parliamentary commission today. And the only right thing to do. But why do we have this system that allows you to, what you have a big government bag of health money, and I'm going to explain this in a hip case, that it's going to be plastic, that you're not going to say anything to me, but if you have a broken hip, because, I think, the waiting period is in 400 days, this big health insurance company and this big health bag totally doesn't matter when you get into surgery. And if at this time, while you're waiting for hip surgery, you're still whispering a little bit and you're hurting your knee and back, I'm not gonna use any other terms, but what a health insurance company would say: "Let's do this, because that's common money, that's state money, and we're gonna operate on your knee and back next to your hip." But it's a cost to the state and the health system. And what we now propose because I said we advocate public health and we advocate a different system of financing this public health care. We advocate that we should be able to release all possible private or any other insurance companies into this funding system. The main observation on the other hand is, yes, you're advocating the privatisation of health care, which means we can pay even more out of our pockets. No, not just because insurance companies are working for profit, it will be in their interest that you get to health services as soon as possible and that health services get to the material as cheaply as possible, because more expensive than materials, they will have to pay insurance companies, worse than operations, they will be able to operate more often. And if I say very simply now, the great health insurance company doesn't care if the hip that's hurting you is still operating on your back and on your knee, it doesn't matter if you're having bad hip surgery, but you'll be doing it again. A private insurance company that works for profit doesn't care, and it will be in her interest to operate on you as soon as possible and as best possible. Why do you do it as soon as possible? Because the longer they delay the operation, the higher costs they will have, and if they fail to operate on you, they will have to operate again, which means that your costs will increase again. In New Slovenia, absolutely, I'll say, we're detecting hot water. We want to offer the Slovenian healthcare system everything that works and works elsewhere in Europe. It is that you have a health system that forces all stakeholders to provide people with the best possible, as good health care as possible and, of course, at the right price. And Slovenia does not have such a system today. The great public health fighters say, God forbid anyone touches this untouchable ZZS, but it is this untouchable ZZS that allows the system and the basis for some at the expense of the patient and Slovenian citizens to serve fatily. And only after we change this system will we set some frameworks so that the matter will be different, because with such a state-wide big bag of money, see, obviously, you have evidence in the case of vein support that can be very greasy earning. I'm sure if there were any other insurance companies around here who wanted the cost of purchasing the material to be reduced, what wouldn't be possible. But, however, many will disagree with my statement, from the one who disagrees with me, I also expect him to say what his solution is to improve this health system, because I see the point of this investigative commission that we are setting up today, precisely in that it proves black and white that the system we have today makes corruption possible and that something needs to be fundamentally changed. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u189	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Prepare Mr. Tomaž Lisec and the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u190	Good-bye to all of you! I personally know one very interesting example of two friendly, conscious Slovenians who have worked their entire lives abroad, specifically in Canada, and each well-deserved Canadian dollar has invested in Slovenia, in the property, in a beautiful new house where they dreamed all the time that they would spend their old years. And then a while ago, they came home to Slovenia, and after only six months, this house was for sale, a house they worked for their whole lives. They managed it at a price, unfortunately, sold it, and are back in Canada today. Do you know why they came back? In a conversation with them, you said, and listen, and you have health care like you did in the Middle Ages. There's an old man here waiting for you on the most basic things for months and reviewing there one sign of anything, unless the primary doctor doesn't already know what kind of emergency directions, after four and a half months we're waiting for, for every little thing. What's wrong with you? But if we want one effective, good treatment, but we have to pay for everything, we pay for the same person who wanted to order us in the morning for two years and things like that. That's why they went back to Canada. So much for Slovenia as the promised country with health care, which, unfortunately, I do. But this health care, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most expensive in the world, if you don't know it, by some comparative criteria. Then how is that possible? Why are these crazy waiting days? Why are the services ineligible? Why are some of the best Slovenian doctors, a surgeon like Houston, working abroad? The answer is simple, because it is a monopoly again, just as every monopoly is harmful, so is a health monopoly. This monopoly is, of course, even a farce, for those who work inside this monopoly in the morning earn a little more in the private infirmary, where they usually even receive the same people as they did in the morning. And of course, such a system doesn't deserve to exist. This is a problem of Slovenian health care. But why do you defend, defend, sustain, give him new and new billions, tax entrepreneurs, people, everything long and beyond, to pay as crazy for Slovenian health as it is. And because they are accompanied by leeches, ladies and gentlemen, this is not about paying doctors, it is not about paying nurses, especially sisters who have very poor salaries in Slovenia, and doctors are incomparably lower than their colleagues abroad and therefore, of course, the best are leaving. But that feeds all those suppliers, all those leeches that managed to suction there along the line of comrades. And that's what this story is talking about with this investigator. And that's why, of course, everyone here today is missing, almost all the colleagues on the left are missing, at least two parties there. Because it's their friends. This coalition said it would be – what? Defending the law. To defend, consistently respect, unconditionally, as has been said, the rule of law, to respect ethics and morality and to fight corruption. Well, as far as law enforcement is concerned, this matter is dead from the moment the government released, illegally, over Slovenia one half million illegal migrants. It's funny to talk about it and the rule of law is funny. By the way, it will have very serious consequences, and it already has not only for Slovenia but also for Europe. When it comes to ethics and had to, we could see this in the interpretation against Mr Erjavac, who is now broad-minded, what he will do for the pensioners, but forgets what the law gives to the pensioners, and that government does not respect what he will then win. Even the law does not respect this government in which it participates. Well, what did we see there? If you steal from this government, this coalition, this powerful left-wing coalition, you steal one pair, you fly out of work right now, if you take 20 thousand euros, you take back some of them, 46 thousand to make no mistake, then you're the best of that year, but if you screw up something that's strategic, historic, like an arbitral process, because you have too long a language and you forget some things like anti-trap equipment, and then you're untouchable. So much for ethics and responsibility in this government. Well, then, here comes the last thing, the fight against corruption. Today, it would be an ideal opportunity to fight corruption in health care, something that makes this health care so terribly expensive, something that is actually the most subversive, because it is the exploitation of people, their disease, their fear of death, and some people are absorbing terrible amounts of money, and others are allowing it. But is today's ruling coalition loud, heated? Of course not, because she only pursues corruption when she doesn't have them. But because they're always there, but he's not persecuted. So much for this powerful ruling coalition and why is there such a growing silence in heaven today on the government side when we talk about this investigator. Believe that this investigator will also receive discredits and blockades by the ruling coalition, we can go bet peacefully, and I have not lost any bets so far. Then where are we? Then we are at a point where, of course, the fight against corruption is only apparent. For what is it that is fueled through this corruption, as has been shown in these stories, which are covered in what this commission is supposed to investigate? That through this, some of the most infamous media serve only for the personal discrediting and defiance and dissemination of the hostile speech of left-wings against all political opponents. Because it is their media power, what enables them then in the perspective of a monopoly, and because naive Slovenians still accept that they are objectively informed. This is what is being said today, and, of course, there is no compunction to prosecute such corruption. Because political power is being fueled through this corruption. That's a Slovenian problem. This is seen on a wider scale for a moment, which is why Slovenia was established after its independence from a type of left-wing government as a system of monopolies. Janez Janša and the most successful government, which, by the way, has raised pensions by a quarter and wages by a quarter, if you've forgotten about it, is despised and given up to nothing by all means. And right through those media that are sued to the suffering of patients. Shame on all of you! This is a system in which left-wing Slovenia rules. As a result, there was such a panic when it began to talk about the fact that she would be an investigator for health corruption. A much bigger panic than when a bank investigator was announced. And there's much more money in theory, and there's 8 billion euros of missing money. But of course, there's already a computer, there's gonna be some kind of judge helping, and it's gonna block some kind of trial, and we already have a friend somewhere, and there's gonna be one way to block that nothing's gonna happen. But there is a bigger problem in health care because there are people working in health care who really want to help a fellow person who still believes in their oath. And it can happen that one of them would say too much. This is a reason for panic to show how the left hand is actually powered in Slovenia and on what basis it has power. On the basis of the establishment of monopolies, including a health monopoly with which it concentrates resources and then allows its comrades to help a lot of corrupt money there, while some contribute it back in the form of political aid or donations, or, if you want, as a media power with which they blacken up in the eyes of the public, cover everything with a soft hand then the government, the executive branch of power, needs justice, and finally we are where we are. In a country that is according to the criteria for corruption, all the scales are at one of the worst, if not usually in the worst last place. And this is the reason why the government is not here today, why the government has been silent, why it has given a negative position, the only one we can hear and why the ruling coalition is practically silent today, or whether it is making a fool out of patients and their suffering, ladies and gentlemen, because it is health.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u191	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Get ready, mags. Bojana Muršič and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you, President, for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! Why is today’s point so important? I took a look at some of the 2014 video clips myself in preparation for this point. Pre-election time, you type "Miro Cerar, corruption" and it's full of hits. You know, corruption, the rule of law, ethics and morality. So let's go over this again. And that is why it is important that we not only talk about corruption but also try to do something. Although we know that there are police, the prosecution, the judiciary, the KPK, and the Court of Auditors are probably another institution, it is only right that we Members should put something into this work, because, if not, I have experience from my parliamentary group when people mostly go to the parliamentary group for three matters. One is the judiciary, one is mostly local municipal and road affairs, and the third is health problems. However, I must say that I am not an expert in health care, but I do know some health home directors and some hospitals, which also guarantee that they want a more effective system in this area. But, as has already been said, there are some clicks before the elections, and there are some clips after the elections, that is, after this government, which has promised to fight corruption and even personal responsibility, as stated in the Coalition Treaty, and then the texts “Discovering the Bribery of Doctors”, “Police: It is four sets of investigations for €5 million”, “How we hunted down the alleged bribery involved”, “What is happening to him because he shuddered in the lobby”, “The affair gets international dimensions” and so on and so on and so on. And not only will I quote the articles, we have a 2014 audit report, which is a good basis for this investigative committee as well. A waiting period at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, Audit Report Reliability of Response Report of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, February 2016, Audit Report Efficiency of management of medical equipment with emphasis on expensive medical equipment, November 2015. Interesting reading, even if we just look at the summaries and conclusions, give a very good reference to the work of the investigative commission, which, of course, on this occasion, I wish her a successful job, especially for the reason that we are not all smart today, yes, otherwise, because corruption is, but it is not so great, but we are all in favour, but we are holding the fig. And why do I feel like some people are holding the fictitious back? Weak month ago, an extraordinary request for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, a proposal by certain Members, including the SDS, 17. February, a very nice text that sends out what is wrong, and conclusions that this coalition rejects. This coalition, which has fought corruption in pre-election time, will today, with its teeth squeezed and almost without discussion, because of course there is no vote at this investigative commission. But look, this coalition on a committee where it has a majority has rejected purely some healthy conclusions or recommendations. Let me point them out once again that people will know what the coalition didn't want to discuss: The National Assembly recommends that the Ministry and the Government investigate allegations of possible health corruption on the basis of the words expressed by the UKC Director-General at a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. Coalition against. The National Assembly recommends that the Government and the Ministry of Health present to the National Assembly an impact analysis of the joint public health procurement measures envisaged for 2015. Coalition against. The National Assembly recommends that the Government and the Ministry of Health take the necessary measures to thoroughly reorganise procurement processes and services related to medical equipment, with a focus on expensive medical equipment. Coalition against. The National Assembly recommends to the Government and the institutions to suspend all persons involved in the procurement of medical devices and leasing equipment due to impartiality until the end of the investigation. Coalition against. Moreover, the National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health to call on the competent institutions to take immediate and decisive action to determine the responsibility of individuals in corruption. Coalition against. We wanted to call on the competent institutions to take immediate and decisive action to determine the responsibility of individuals in corruption. But we have listened, we have changed the law on public procurement, and from now on you will be dipping honey and milk, because certain people will be given a public order, before at least three fights, but we have done so, or you have done so, ask few people who are already dealing with it, they say, because we are not coming at all, because it says exactly who it is, not in the field of health, the call or the call is defined. They said, of course, we're unconstitutional. This has been said by those Members who easily violate the Constitution in the National Assembly or refuse to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. In short, some kind of bluff, but they were against it. At least a little knowledge has come, and something is wrong, and I must say that such a debate in the National Assembly is necessary, because perhaps a journalist begins to investigate. In Slovenia, I miss research journalism, which is obviously or is paid not to write, or is intimidated not to write. An article on one of the online portals, fortunately quite a lot of read, today's date, 30. 3, two hours ago: “Does the Ministry of Health, through public procurement, fill their pockets with friends? After the imprecise use of resources from a number of construction projects, the Ministry of Health decided to verify the use of state money in more detail, but again within the same complex.« And when the minister might say, because it will be a little bit, I have a feeling that she already knows, because there will be nothing, because we have a background covered and full of gas forward after the personnel replacements, after the system's affairs, because nothing's going to blow up. And that's what the minister says, saying there will be a few mandates at the head of this ministry. Instead of solving corruption, we find that the Minister is at least to a certain extent, at least to a certain extent, but not part of the solution. I am afraid that any audit reports from the Court of Auditors, which will put this mandate on the table when we talk about the UKC, emergency centres, procurement, God forbid that we should go into the fields of medicine, our companies, to get all the other cases, when this list, presented by the circus of 10 companies, gets a lot of passengers and partners who will not only be fingered in marmalade, but with millions in their pocket, thinking that nothing can happen to us, the PKK is dealing with itself, the police, even if it does, will come to the prosecution, the prosecution will reject the case, but if anything comes to the court, or even so will those who say, ah, these are our friends and of course we must not punish them. But for God's sake, there's the opposition here, which requires some kind of commission of inquiry. But it is true that things are not so black that we have a lot of good directors of institutions, doctors, nurses, all the other employees in the area of health, pharmacy, including all those who are facing public calls and public procurement, of course they are not some bad moment in this process, they are not, as some want to show, like, in the area of the economy where all are bad, they are not, on the contrary, they themselves claim that the vast majority are good, but they work for their wages not only 8 hours as I know friends or friends who are nurses, doctors and doctors, they work much more than the prescribed 176 hours or as they are available for months, but they work for their wages. Many of them said, “Why the hell don’t I get any better improvements or supplements?” But when I say, put it out loud, tell me why some are privileged and whose anomalies are within the health system, but it says, not by any means, because if I say anything, they will not be on the wallpapers that are guilty or at least suspect that they have done something wrong, but they will be covered up by those who do good and unfortunately know about the anomalies, but they will not and must not say, at least so say themselves. I hope that this commission of inquiry will escape into the agenda of these people who are doing good and fair and will be able to tell about all these anomalies. I hope that this Commission of Inquiry will also help all other bodies to come to the truth more easily, more qualitatively and of course more quickly every day. And not that we're going to be wondering how many years later I don't know if there's been anything wrong with that, and that's the case. But also through what we do in the National Assembly, a voice will come to people and people will say, well, if they don't solve some things, at least the Members are talking about things that we don't say every day, but with every contact with the medical service they touch. This is the question of why drugs are so expensive in our country, while in neighbouring countries they are much cheaper, why such expensive material in the field of health and so on will be given answers to why some can take advantage of the waiting line, while others are sneezing and waiting and waiting and waiting. It's too late for a lot of people. Just last week, I had the case when the gentleman said, "I waited three months, they realized that if it were three months ago, my life would have been much longer, and now I am waiting for the day when I go to the hospital and the question of when and how I will return." Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is the task of all of us to reach our citizens with the help of the Commission of Inquiry and say that we are trying to help reduce corruption and that the health system will work what it is meant to do for people. In short, the Commission of Inquiry and all members would like a successful work, fruitful sessions and a lot of smart conclusions, and in particular conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u193	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! We've been talking about corruption for a while now. We also discussed corruption at 12 extraordinary meetings of the working body, at two extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, and today we are ahead of the fact that we are also setting up an investigative commission. It's the same thing that happened. It is also right to talk about it, and it is right to seek solutions. Just a speech and a conversation isn't enough. We need to move from words to actions. I am sorry that this bad light, which we have been discussing for some time now, has been hurling at the entire health care sector. There are also individual doctors, directors, as my predecessor has already mentioned, nurses, health personnel who fight for every life that invests their energy and actually cares for the health and well-being of our people, or including us. That is why it is right that the Commission of Inquiry, I sincerely hope that this will happen, will find solutions. If there are shortcomings in the legislation, let us correct them. If there are other problems, we find responsibility on the part of individuals. We are looking for solutions that will lead our health care to a better light. It has already been mentioned at the outset that zero tolerance is our key objective, which we have also enshrined in the coalition agreement. My colleague said there was no zero tolerance. I'm going to say that at least we're getting close, I'm going to fix it, and I totally agree with you. I believe that we are on the right track to take such a step and to reduce this corruption as much as possible. So, the purpose of this commission of inquiry is to detect and investigate actual situations. It also saddens me that, in fact, all those groups that are responsible or competent authorities that should have done something about it have done nothing all this time. That is why I am almost afraid of what we can do, which, in fact, are not so highly qualified in this area. Of course, we know each other by all probability in the field of public procurement, we know how to watch numbers, we know how to talk, we know how to listen, we know how to find solutions, we know how to make solutions in the field of new legislation, but the investigative authorities have not done their job so far, so since 2013, as mentioned in previous discussions, this year we have been in 2016, three years of this. Asking what to do about it. I'll say there's no single answer to what's causing corruption. In one of the doctor's records, I noticed that he said that corruption in health care was as much as we met in other areas. However, such dishonest behaviors by doctors, I must say that they arouse fear, because doctors deal with our lives, with the health of our people, so such behaviour is unacceptable and must be sanctioned as soon as possible. I don't think all doctors are here right now. And I can say specifically that we have health problems. There are problems in health care. In particular, I can also speak from one personal case. Patients did not want to be admitted to a health facility because their health status or their indicators were not so poor. Within a week, even after a bit of excruciating talk between doctors and relatives, she was only accepted. Today, her medical condition is such that we do not know how long she will be among us. So here too is the question of what to do that doctors will actually spot all these indicators in time, help people, us all who find ourselves in an awkward situation. Corruption, if I focus on it, destroys our legal and social state. Such practices make it impossible for many people to have universal access to health services. They are taking up the possibility of timely treatment that I have mentioned. The outflow of money for human health treatment directly endangers human lives, so I strongly oppose it, and I hope that we will actually do something good for all of us with the commission of inquiry. The largest part of the fight against health corruption can also be done by the State itself to ensure the regulation of the health system. There is also much that we individuals can do to make people aware that when we detect corrupt acts, we communicate them further, and with various internal controls and organizational structures, there is much that can be improved. It is essential, however, to raise moral and ethical rules. However, allow me to conclude, but the Commission of Inquiry, which will be established, will cut off this Gordy knot that lasts too long. I want this Commission to be as patient, understanding as possible and as soon as possible a solution that will be for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u195	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Ms Nada Brinovšek and the representative of the proposer should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that, President. It took two hours and fifteen minutes for us to talk about something that has very little but very little to do with today’s decision or the document that will direct us today to have an investigative commission. In fact, here I have listened to some, I will say, I will be very fond of how we will explore and finally stop corruption in various areas, about waiting types, about various operations and I don't know what else and how people are poor and how there are honest doctors and sisters and what I know what else. I'm sorry, no offense, but on the other hand, even the proponents, you've read what you've proposed, you've proposed the establishment of an investigative commission with one element, the vascular resistors are called, not a waiting type of drama, and I don't know what kind of corruption stories will be revealed in health care, but that doesn't mean that I said they're not, they're not just in health, they're everywhere. Where there's a man, there's a bastard and there's fraud. The thing about individual culture, the thing about people's culture is whether it's more clear or not. If it weren't for that, we wouldn't have any law enforcement. What will the commission of inquiry bring? No, nothing to be afraid of, colleague, I will not control you as an opposition, or anything will go wrong. Let me repeat the sentence I said again, and we will monitor that the Commission of Inquiry will not go beyond its own jurisdiction. I won't control anyone. If I am fortunate enough to be invited by the Group of Members to this committee, I am happy to come and help in an area that I certainly hope and know better than many of your colleagues. What matters to me is that, of course, when we decide on an investigative committee, we do not tell our future colleagues that we are holding a fig in our pocket. Nobody's holding a fig in their pocket. However, I am afraid that in the way you proposed it, with a document that has practically ripped your ZPS in half, you still do not understand what the main elements of this inquiry committee are. Nor is it true that no company is mentioned. In the proposal, the five companies mentioned above, we already know exactly what we are going to investigate, even the Youth magazine, which does not deal with vascular resistors, but some would very much like to attach this magazine to this investigative committee, to this medium, for which, by the way, your party's president, Janez Janša, has repeatedly made it very clear that he despises it, he does not like to be president of the government, but he has even banned it through his press representative that it should be ordered. So we already know what this investigative commission is going to do. Sorry, I'm afraid, but I hope she doesn't. If, of course, we discover what you are proposing in the commission of inquiry itself, I will personally bow to you and I will be happy because at least one stone will be saved within the system. But I'm afraid it won't be any good, because I tell you, and I say again, we're looking for the political responsibility of public officials, the calls aren't made by public officials, and I'm sorry, let's at least take a look at the Public Procurement Act so that you can understand who's doing what. And so, of course, it makes sense that at least we're patient. That is why this debate has been a waste of time today. We'd cut it short. It was also our contribution to devote as few minutes as possible to this, and we prefer to work on an investigative committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u197	Gradually, Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u198	Mr President, given that he was, I think, before Mr Pojbič spoke, warned that he should stick to the subject, I would ask that you warn the colleague who said otherwise that we should be patient and that I will be patient in this procedural proposal, that he does not offend the proposer, that he did not read what he referred to the National Assembly, that he should be patient and that he should stick to the topic and once again that he does not insult our President, that he does not offend the party and that he does not offend the proposer. The proposal that we have put into the procedure has good intentions and I do not allow myself as a proposal to be offended by my colleague Möderndorfer that I have not read the proposal. Please warn him to stick to this and stop insulting the Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u199	By saying your disagreement with his debate, you have said your definition of what he was saying, I will not define what he was saying, as I have not previously defined myself to what your predecessor was saying, but with what I have said, I have reacted to two procedural proposals, so that I will give my word to the next one, and this is Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall again! Comrade Jani, I'm sure today's meeting is no waste of time. Look, it doesn't hurt to talk in general about health, corruption, systemic corruption or any corruption. We all know that corruption is a multifaceted affair, that it is that the Ministry is still not prepared to change legislation, so to speak, the rakrana of our Slovenian health care and, consequently, given all the corruption risks that occur in this area, we have also requested or applied for an investigator in our parliamentary group. I have also said in my own opinion that we are constantly dealing with some affairs in the health field, that newspapers are constantly writing, that there is no day when there is no talk or writing about affairs, or that there are some health issues. That is why we have convened 11 extraordinary meetings or called for 11 extraordinary meetings in the field of health in our Group of Members in this mandate. In all these sessions, of course, we are at all these affairs, at the expense of irregularities, at the suspicion of corruption, let this be a matter of little corruption, big corruption, administrative corruption, systemic corruption, we know that corruption is a number of types, mainly corruption, we have warned about all of this, but somehow without any effect. And you could say that those sessions were a waste of time, because somehow we failed to convince you that it was an act that had a suspicion of corruption. Unfortunately, during all this time, we have been alerted to this by the media, and neither the ministry nor the law enforcement authorities have responded to these warnings. I often wonder if you're conscious here, if you're in charge of that, if you're blind or if you really don't want to, or if you don't hear it. At the extraordinary autumn session of the Health Committee, we also drew attention to systemic corruption in public procurement. We also pointed out the suspicion of bribery and accepting bribes. We have also noted the suspicion that they will be involved in public institutions, but respected colleagues, you have not seen any suspicion of corruption, so that, as I said before, it would not be any small corruption, medium-sized corruption and so on. That the system itself is somehow working or that something is wrong with it and that corruption or suspicion of some corruption is still involved with this system or that the system is still involved, all of these events that have taken place in the last year at the UKC in Ljubljana show. We know that the UKC doesn't have a director today, has a senior director, we know what was going on with Director Baricic, we know what was going on in the field of cardiology and so on. And I think if we were to step on someone's fingers once in a while, we wouldn't be witnesses to all these events every day. Despite the Ministry's strong support for somehow enforcing its protocols and informing systems that they are present within the UKC, I think that neither the protocol adopted by the Ministry nor the information systems and quality systems within the UKC work well. And it is sad that, because of the failure of all these protocols and systems, no one answers, and there are many who would probably suspect or think that this is some kind of corrupt act. We've been able to read a lot of things in the media. We have read, I cannot help but regret that my colleague Jani has gone out, but I must also consider that, given that we have read so much and so much about corruption in health care, you have probably read this from the last session: “How Member Möderndorfer helped to preserve corruption in public health.” I hope you've read this contribution. Here I would also like to point out an irregular act at the UKC, namely that the reverse supply contracts have been signed by persons who are not the legal representative of the UKC, even a month before the procurement decision. So, they signed the contract earlier, and within a month, they decided on the purchase. This is the wrong world for me. The media also wrote that pressure is still being exerted on doctors if they do not want to cooperate, of course, they are resolved. However, if these individuals or influential individuals fail to reach their own goal, they go even to the president of the country, we are of course familiar with that statement. And it's probably up to all of us here to ask who's putting this pressure on us. However, I am sure that perhaps many of you know who is exerting pressure. Also in the field of public tendering, it is known that the sky is known for the eerie irregularities that are taking place here. I have watched these calls for proposals on the portal a little while ago, and the question arises to me why certain tenders change several times in the meantime. In these cases, it is likely that a pre-determined tenderer may be selected or that the invitation to tender may be corrected to the extent that a specified and pre-selected tenderer may, of course, apply to this tender. I believe that this fact, mentioned last time by the Minister, has changed the law on public procurement so that it will not have any positive effects in the area of public tendering, in the field of health. I think it's still necessary for this investigator of ours, and I certainly want a lot of success in her work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u201	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which Mrs Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, gets the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you, President. Today's debate was essentially, I can say, a few answers, that some parties, including by a coalition, favoured parliamentary investigation and investigation in terms of reducing corruption in health care or identifying those responsible, that the largest coalition party with its implementation today, or much talked, said almost nothing, all that was said was that the applicant was incapable and that the proposal that was tabled was, therefore, a request for a parliamentary inquiry, in fact, if I may say domestically, larifari. I am very sorry that the largest coalition party with its representative in today's implementation has shown its low level of what it represents. I am very sorry that I believe that many of the Members sitting on this side of the SMC think otherwise and would probably have expressed their views differently. Nevertheless, I am pleased that all parliamentary parties will participate in this parliamentary investigation to identify corruption in the area of purchasing and selling vascular support, and that, despite the fact that it has been obvious to us that we will not come to conclusions, that all those involved in the parliamentary investigation will cooperate constructively and that we will come to conclusions. In fact, if we go with the idea that the parliamentary investigation is lame and there will be no conclusions, then it is really totally pointless that we have it, any parliamentary investigation. If Members with such thinking come to the parliamentary committees to cooperate. And with threats, we're going to keep our eyes open so you don't do crooks with exactly that kind of statement. I believe that a parliamentary investigation with all the participants will bring answers, including conclusions. Unfortunately, in fact, in this area of health corruption, competent institutions such as the NPU, the specialised state prosecutor's office, the KPC and so on have not in fact done anything in these years, to take procedures to investigate, clear up, and so on for more than 2 years, that much is being said. There's not a day in the last day that we don't read about health issues. Not a day. There is no day when it would not be written how money is spent, how certain irregularities occur at the expense of taxpayers, how they are staffed, how exchanges in sacred institutions, public health institutions, whose founder is the Republic of Slovenia, are not the day when they have no health care on the table, so to speak. I believe, once again, that this parliamentary commission, which came about somehow on the basis that the coalition rejected the recommendations that we have proposed before the time to encourage institutions to do much more in this area, to somehow stop these corrupt actions, to find those responsible. The reason for this parliamentary request for a parliamentary commission was, one of the reasons was that the statements made by Mrs Čoklov's d. Director on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, including the statements made by the Director of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption on the Committee, who presented or presented this case as one of those most at risk of corruption. After all, as I said before, we also listened to some of the doctor's statements on the Health Committee, which said that they had warned about things, and they were, in fact, those who had experienced some kind of bullying, that they had been suspended from their jobs and so on. There was no response, no reaction, no reaction from the minister, no one. So those who warned were, in effect, rewarded by degrading them in the workplace. This shouldn't be happening. However it may sound, but it has been said many times today, we have good doctors, we have doctors who point out these things, they just want to work, they want to work normally, and they don't want these pressures that they experience. Some are quiet, some say, but then you can see what's going on with them. I think that very little or almost nothing has been done in Slovenia so far to reduce corruption in health care. This government, which you say is not to blame for the corrupt acts that have taken place and may still be happening, but you are on the government. The government of the Modern Centre Party of Government today and they or you must act now. And don't talk, we're not guilty of what happened in 2012, yes, no, you're not guilty, because many of you didn't even know that you'd be sitting in Parliament, that you'd have this, I'll say, the happiness that hit you, that you came to Parliament as new faces under the face of Mira Cerar, but start looking for those responsible now and say, we're the ones, you're the ones who finally said, people were going to the elections, they said, and now they're going to change, and they're going to hit the lobby, on the networks. No, no, no. Today, you remain silent and insult those who are proposing investigative commissions, which we are essentially advocating for these things to be resolved, and as you say, we were then on the government, and then, according to your words, the biggest acts of corruption, I will not say the greatest things and the greatest acts of corruption. You're here today, you're in the government, take action! Come on. No and no. You're rejecting everything. Today, three points are not voted on, but the previous two on infrastructure – against, just because the opposition is, no arguments have been heard, as today not by the SMC, no intelligent arguments, only the insults of the proposer. If you continue to do so, I find it difficult to believe that you will be able to work on the parliamentary committee without a fig in your pocket. Once again, thank you all for working together. I believe that this parliamentary commission will come to conclusions that will help if, of course, the one who will be in the government also wants changes, changes in legislation and other changes, that these corruptions will no longer occur or to a much smaller extent.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u203	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If the representative of the proposer also wants to discuss it, please also apply by pressing the microphone key, in which case he will be given the word as the last one. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 3 minutes and 50 seconds. She's got a word, dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. If there's time left, I'll take advantage of it. I will not moralise whether there is a waste of time or not, whether it is necessary or not, nor will I tell others how to behave, we are full-year, professionally capable, but somehow the problem of this National Assembly is that we have such rules that at any point we can blaspheme about anything. Madam from the candidates said, we are talking about anything in general, and this is not wrong. It's not wrong if it hasn't been done for a quarter of a century. I'm not gonna go back and look who did it, who didn't do it. Very eminent, prominent doctors in important functions are very clearly politically declared, either old-fashioned or persistently right, and often, of course, behind these fogs do business as they do. I have quite a few documents here, too, which, of course, I cannot show, some internal communications when people point to all these things. How seductive this investigator is – and I have to agree with Janie in part here – but it reminds me a little of those European projects when you have to write down what you're going to find when you report. So much for European science. The fact that we have severe health problems is already known by sparrows and rapids and other birds. Brglez is a bird that can also go head down, the only Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u205	Only me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u206	And it seems to me that we should, in the general view of this, not take it personally, we should do it. If we really want to tackle this problem, I'm lucky or unhappy in my life that I have more than half a family working in health care, in a pharmacy in one four, five countries on two, three continents. If we are to take this seriously, then the minister or minister must become a protected person. More protected than this gentleman here. This way, as we're going through this one of the investigators on some of the ventricles, what do we know about the ventricles? [[…]] Okay, I could call my daughter. One of them's studying medicine, the other one's going to go to medical school, and if we don't start solving this, they're probably gonna get out. As long as we look at the Supervisor, we're very clear, five, six old campers are in control of these medical orders. But now you've been working some way towards a magazine. We could name these gentlemen. One eight, nine companies, seven years, 5.6 billion. And through some of these general debates, through some of the investigators that are going to go, I don't know, there's going to be a lot of braces today, there's going to be a pacemaker tomorrow, but I don't know what tomorrow. I don't want to be kind of insulting. And it seems to me that this investigator, as seduced as foretold, will go in the direction she will go. But if we're talking about insults up and down, you know, let the gentleman there mention someone with prostitutes. Like Karl Erjavec said, "Hey, what did you think I wouldn't go down to your level?" End of quote. You have introduced these practices, old policies into this Parliament. And now we're all trying to figure out who might be trying to solve something. In short, we have a problem we have to deal with, but it seems to me that we're dealing with it the wrong way. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u207	Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I had no intention of discussing it, and I must also say what was obvious that we have reported a little time on purpose. We have taken many hours to discuss corruption in health, in previous sessions and more times. I do not personally believe that any problem can be solved by such a debate. In the end, it always turns out that this is one of the main problems in this country, given the time we spend on it. It's a problem. It's definitely a problem. But once again, health corruption, if compared to others, is significantly less money. I think that corruption in all the years in healthcare does not reach just one TEC, but we do not talk about everything else. The fact that corruption is present, of course, does not excuse it. I believe that this is primarily doing great harm to the health care industry. Let us understand that in the face of all the problems facing health care, it works very well, in the face of all the human resources problems, the problems of lack of equipment, including inadequate organisations, we still have an increasing burden on health today because the vast majority of it works well at a high level. And believe me, since I've worked in health for a long time, it really pisses me off, because I know there's corruption in health. And because I know how many people try to do good and in fact for the benefit of patients, they can't change anything. I have no objection to the initiative on such a commission, but of course I have certain doubts, given that many parliamentary commissions existed. But when we draw under the line, what was the outcome and result of the work of these commissions, these results do not inspire me precisely with great confidence that we will save much here and even less with all these debates. The figures simply say that the extent of this in health care is significantly lower than elsewhere. I have already said this in one of the previous data-based discussions, of the 6 billion public procurements since 2013, under 300 million have been used by health care. And of these 300 million, of course, I'm sure that part of them went wrong and into the wrong pockets. But in the end, when we draw it under the line, there can't be a reason that's often used to make money in health care enough. And this is where the problem is, and this is where the most abuse of this kind of debate is. Again, I don't want to justify any corruption. Believe me, of course we're missing health reform. We're missing a lot of things. However, to look for reasons for corruption in this work, I find it almost defiant. Also looking for a reason in one health insurance company, please, I mean, it just doesn't drink water. The treatment of corruption is much more difficult and I do not think that we will be able to resolve it with such discussions. However, I hope that this Commission of Inquiry, if already established, will actually contribute one step further in order to ensure that this corruption is also in the field of health [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u209	I'm closing the debate. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly does not vote on the approval of a parliamentary inquiry, so I note that the Parliamentary Chamber has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and to establish and assess the actual situation to establish the political responsibility of the public function holders to participate in the preparation and implementation of the procurement procedure in the field of sales and supply of vascular support, in view of the suspicion that the procedures and transactions have been conducted in a non-economic and non-transparent manner that the consequences of such conduct and the suspicion of the presence of health corruption in the field of sales and the acquisition of vascular cords are still undetected. In order to establish, for the first time, the possible liability of public function holders to participate in the preparation and implementation of the procurement procedure in the field of the acquisition of vascular resistance due to the suspicion of health corruption in the area of the acquisition of vascular resistances, due to the suspicion that the obligation to seek management staff's responsibility for management decisions to be involved in the acquisition of vascular support in institutions carrying out secondary and tertiary activities in the Republic of Slovenia will be waived. Secondly, it finds out the possible liability of former and current public function holders in institutions carrying out health activities at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia, linked to the sale and purchase of vein support. Thirdly, it finds out how tax money is to flow through the supplier of medical equipment for the purpose of financing entirely other areas – the media, and notes how certain sources have already pointed out that companies such as Mark Medical d.o.o. sell vascular support in Slovenia for about a thousand 300 euros, while the same vascular support in Poland cost 460 euros. Fourthly, it finds out the consequences of the cooperation of institutions operating health activities at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia with Mark Medical, d.o.o., whose shareholders were and are still in business with KB 1909 and Vega Finanz SA until 2015. KB 1909 has its headquarters in Gorica, the latter also has a publishing media activity and is the founder of Distriest, d. o. o., and co-owner of the week Mladina, d. d. The purpose and scope of the parliamentary investigation are defined in the request of the Group of Members and Members for the purpose of determining the parliamentary inquiry, in the record of that requirement and in the Act of Design of the Parliamentary Inquiry which you have received. The parliamentary investigation is therefore determined. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 9 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u210	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the construction of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the construction of transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! In the SDS Group, we will clearly support this law. I am pleased that today's debate has been very constructive and I am also pleased that the debaters have found nowhere that this law is contrary to the adopted strategy for the development of transport and transport infrastructure adopted by the Government. In some ways, it was also the basis for the drafting of this law, so I expect you to continue to support this bill in the voting, because, through the debate, you have all found that in the area of transport and transport infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia there are many outstanding things, a large shortage of resources for the construction of individual infrastructure, and that despite the promises made after the strategy has been adopted, the Government has not yet come to the National Assembly with a follow-up, with documents that would build on the basic strategy for the development of transport and transport infrastructure. This is precisely why this law has been introduced, which clearly defines specific projects, puts them also in appropriate timelines and, of course, provides the following law with resources for the construction of this infrastructure. Like yourself, you have also observed that transport infrastructure is very important for some balanced development of Slovenia, to enable construction and development in all parts and that we currently have a large shortage in the field of state roads in particular. In the past, quite a lot of money has been invested in building a highway cross that works well. With the motorway cross, development is possible, and you have all identified it, so it is right to actually allow other areas that are currently handicapped through the support of this law with the appropriate infrastructure to develop these areas in a good way. An important part of this law is also aimed at preventing us from falling out of the European corridors, because if we do not lend infrastructure, we are likely to receive certain measures from the European Union in the future, which also means that we cannot draw on European funds in the future. Therefore, in view of the debate that has been constructive by most Members, and in support of this law, I expect you to support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u212	Explanation of the vote and the name of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, chairman. As we have already announced, we will abstain from both votes. Why? We live in the 21st century, we live in a society, a country where in the United Left we don't want the location to determine our quality of life. Therefore, we must first ask ourselves how to go about the polycentric development of Slovenia, after answering this question we must also understand at the same time the changes in mobility practices, we must be aware that we live in an information society and answer the question that I am going somewhere, that something digitised comes to me and then, on the basis of this answer, of course, also look at what kind of pig we have and how we will charge it or answer the question of how we will finance it and in what sequence. And also to identify in which cases the timelines can change and, of course, to have a risk strategy developed in all of this, but not in the way of a risk strategy on four, five pages as for TES 6. This is the minimum condition of a law of this kind on which the United Left will consent. We are going to participate in this, and we would actually need such a law, with a preamble that responds to what I said first, with an answer to how we will finance it, with a timeline and, of course, with the regulation of the risk strategy. Everything that's less than that has actually shrunk. The approach taken by the Government as well as the approach taken by the well-intentioned proposer is not a reasonable approach to this very important topic. I don't mean to be insulting, but in the United Left, we have people who control this area. Like in such other parties, people of this kind do. However, I am somewhat saddened by the infrastructure substantiation of the current coalition, but I hope that, in due course of time, we will get through this kind of legislation, because for 25 years of some general debate, it has led us to the fact that, as I have already quoted in an article, we have introduced ourselves. I'm only going to call once because Comrade Kordish has a bus. Thank you. Good evening.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u214	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Members, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. We also give special importance to the development of traffic in the Modern Centre. With regard to the issues that have developed at today's point, we have explained that, under this strategy, we give priority to the transport development strategy already adopted last year in the government, as well as to the national transport development programme and the operational plan for the implementation of the strategy, which are the documents that follow. According to our assessment, the adoption of the present law would somehow constitute an intervention in the development events that take place on the basis of these documents already adopted or a document already adopted in combination with the law proposed under the second point, and of course all of this would also constitute an intervention in budgetary documents. For these reasons, we therefore insist that the path we have taken or taken by the Government is more appropriate in view of our macroeconomic frameworks and the bill proposed by the SDS Group will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u216	We're voting. I'm breaking up. Is he okay now? Okay. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you for saying that again. It is true that the previous law has not been passed, but this law has been proposed as a supplement or continuation of the Infrastructure Building Act and we will, of course, support this law in our Group. The aim of this law was clear: to identify also sources of funding for the construction of this transport infrastructure for a longer period, thus also providing some stable funding and thus allowing for some normal design and installation of these facilities into space and budgets. We all note that these projects, which, of course, await us in the future, are of strategic importance, so it is also right that this is complemented by a law defining implementation in terms of funding. The marriage had some pretty good solutions. He'll probably be rejected. I expect or believe that the ministry will use a number of solutions already foreseen in the law, as some major new solutions are not likely to be invented by the ministry. However, I propose that you support this law in such a way as to complement it in the second reading and thus allow for some normal implementation of concrete projects, as well as not least the maintenance of public infrastructure, which is in very poor condition in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u218	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Members, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you for saying that again. As foretold earlier, we will not support this law either. The law is called the Law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure. Throughout the debate, we have somehow found that this is not actually about the provision of funds, but about the reallocation of funds within the budget. In doing so, I would like to say that, if this law were adopted, there would actually be a situation where the items that today represent an integral part of the budget from which all budgetary users derive funds would only be allocated to infrastructure, which means that these items would actually be lacking to other budgetary users. Of course, as I said before, it would open new fronts. That is to say, there would be an additional revenue outturn for some who are in need of funds, which is, in fact, the very beginning of the budget and the financial policy itself. For this reason, we will not support this law. At the same time, we have also been assured by the Government that it will provide an additional EUR 30 million for infrastructure already in the existing budgets for 2016 and 2017, which will undoubtedly, with an already increased budget for these purposes, achieve that we will actually be able to drive better infrastructure, better roads and better railways in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u220	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you for saying that again. The fact that the proposals for funding are not realistic and that it is a matter of redistribution of the budget can, in some way, be held, because we are also bound by the fiscal rule that the budget does not increase in some way, so that the fact is true, but that the law foresees that the key impacts on the budget only be carried out by 1. 1. 2018 when new budgets are adopted. On the other hand, it must be said that there are some new sources in the proposal for this law that can provide additional resources. These are motorway concessions and are also part of the annual profits of all state-owned companies with infrastructure-related activities. On the other hand, it is the responsibility of the Government to ensure rationalisation in other areas within the budget, and it can also be redistributed to transport infrastructure under this heading. Given that we all find that this is a major multiplier effect not only on construction, but on the whole economy, such measures are certainly meaningful within the budget. However, it is only that part of the budget, which increases from the existing one actually by this law to EUR 500 million at the annual level. If we know that at this point it is intended to rebuild roads of 80 million, but according to the Ministry's calculations, at least 200 million at the annual level, we can find that this supplement, which the Government envisages at 10 million in 2016 and 21 million in the following year, is significantly insufficient for some normal functioning of our transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-03-30-SDZ7-Redna-17.ana.u222	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 19 votes against and 44 votes against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 17th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
