ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Violeta Tomić, Mrs Jelka Godec, Dr. Milan Brglez from 8.20 onward, Mr. Bojan Podkrodšek, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Mr. Roberto Battelli, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Miha Kordiš, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Luka Mesec, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, mag. Branko Grims, Mr. Ivan Prelog and Mr. Franz Breznik. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 41st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Wednesday 21 December 2016 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 41st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration Boris Koprivnikar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the Law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017, which regulates this area in the following year and in part also in 2018. The law before you is the result of one long, demanding negotiation process, which we concluded on 16 December with the paraphrasing of an agreement with two trade unions representing 41 trade unions in the public sector. Then, in fact, on December 19th, at the correspondence meeting of the Government, we confirmed the signing of this agreement and signed it, and the committee, on yesterday, also without a vote against the bill in the proposed form, with an additional amendment. Among other things, the law regulates regular progress, the delay in titles, the failure to pay work performance and performance for the increased volume of work, governs a different payment of the annual leave rebate, and the agreement itself is the basis for the arrangements in collective agreements for collective supplementary pension premiums. An important result of this agreement is that, at the same time as the gradual release of restrictive measures in the area of continuing labour costs and, in fact, also in the light of the dynamics that enable public financial sustainability, we expect all these measures to be phased out. This agreement also entails, in particular, both a financial and a date-bound commitment to eliminate payment anomalies, which have been a problem in this payment system since its entry into force. This time, however, we have set specific dates, specific amounts that will allow us to agree with the trade union party to address those problems in the pay system that are constantly causing friction between pay groups and are, after all, something that we should in any case be eliminated in the future. If an agreement, which is the basis for the law before you today, were not adopted, we would face the great public financial consequences of some amounting to around 215 million. As a result, this law also results in an impact of some 56 million euros on collective bargaining. These consequences are publicly manageable both on the budget side and on the public treasury side, and we will also be able to ensure that, in the next year of the implementation of the budget, all costs that will actually arise as a result of this law can be covered under the adopted budget by reallocations. Let me point out that part of the Act is also an annex which was adopted yesterday on the Committee and also regulates retirement in 2017. And also this annex, although it is an annex to the committee, has been agreed with the unions, so I can ensure that all the matter before you today and the matter resulting from the agreement and will be regulated in collective agreements is fully regulated. Therefore, I am pleased that social dialogue remains a fundamental value that the public financial consequences remain manageable, and I am pleased that the abolition of this wage anomaly will finally begin and that, first and foremost, those public servants who are in the worst position, both in terms of regression and in terms of public servants, for whom, this will be regulated in collective agreements, pension premiums, have to be strengthened to pay just before they retire, so we have sought ways in all measures to ensure that the workers themselves are actually financially sustainable in order to get what is most important to them. I propose that the law, which is the result of this agreement, be confirmed and thus made possible the smooth financing of work in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members, Minister, good morning! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 48th emergency meeting, on 21 May. 12. In 2016, the draft law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other public sector measures submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government with a proposal for an urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 83rd regular meeting on 20 June. 12. 2016 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. No amendments to the draft law were tabled within the time limit. Members received a proposal for amendments to the amendment of the SMC, DeSUS and SD committees to Articles 9 and 12. In a complementary explanation for the articles, the representative of the proposed Minister of Public Administration said that the solutions to the bill were the result of a long negotiation process that lasted almost one year. The agreement on measures in the field of labour costs and other measures in the public sector is pleased with the union, as it shows that social dialogue is still valuable in our country. The agreement provides an important guarantee for the manageability of public financial expenditure, both in 2017 and in part in 2018. The Minister called on the National Assembly to confirm, together with the proposed amendments to the Committee's amendment, that this would allow the gradual release of austerity measures in the field of public sector work in a publicly sustainable manner. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly summarized the main findings of the written opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In doing so, she stressed that the proposed legal solutions were redesigned in a way that, both by content and by way of design, became stable during the intervention of wage and other labour costs in the public sector. In a short presentation, the head of the negotiating group of public sector trade unions expressed support for the solutions to the draft law, except for the proposed provisions of Articles 9 and 12 which are not in line with the negotiating groups of trade unions. In the debate, the coalition Members welcomed the conclusion of an agreement between the government and the trade union side, as it is undoubtedly an example of good practice in the area of social dialogue. They welcomed the efforts to eliminate irregularities in the pay system and raised the question whether it had been done enough to ensure mechanisms for rewarding good public servants and sanctioning the poor. The implementation of the Public Finance Balance Act in 2012 brought with it the rigidity of the service system, which is also reflected in the generation gap in the public sector, as newly employed young people were not able to adequately replace public servants who had retired. They expressed their expectation that all the austerity measures implemented by Zujf would be lifted as soon as possible. The opposition Members stressed that the draft law was received at least a month late for consideration. They expressed their belief that it should be considered as part of the budget package at the November meeting, but no agreement with the unions was reached at that time. They noted that the Fiscal Council has not yet been appointed as a guarantor and guardian of the fiscal sustainability of public finances. They wondered what the actual financial consequences of the bill were not only for the state budget but also for the health and expenditure of the municipalities. In response to the question raised, the Minister of Public Administration explained that all activities in the negotiating process with trade unions took place in close cooperation with representatives of the Ministry of Finance. However, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance added that a meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the municipalities would be convened immediately after the new year to agree on the opening of a new round of negotiations on the average for 2017 and 2018 due to an increase in the costs of municipalities as a result of the higher labour costs foreseen in the proposal for a law. The Committee then adopted its amendments to Articles 9 and 12 on the basis of a written proposal from the amendments to the amendment of the committee of the Coalition's parliamentary groups – SMC, Desus and SD. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In a way, the law and the agreement before us seem to be avoiding daylight. Yesterday we discussed it on the committee in the dark, and even today, as we begin this meeting, it is almost dark outside. However, the highlight of this process is that the social dialogue has reached an agreement on the further regulation of wages and labour costs and other measures in this area in the public sector and any agreement adopted in this way must be welcomed and supported by the social democrats. Unfortunately, the dialogue went on longer than it would have been possible in an ideal situation — perhaps because even on the government’s side not all the moves were well thought out and correct. However, in the future, what is the lesson of these negotiations, it would be good to lead negotiations for the whole public sector, which concern it, together and unitedly. Separate negotiations raise doubts, but at the same time the feeling that someone is worth more than the second or third one, which we should not do. Thus, because of unilateral moves this year, we are rightly resented by soldiers, judicial officers, firefighters, because we have not arranged their situation in a comparable manner with the police. At the same time, at the same time, the anger of most of the public sector unions was justified when the negotiations did not take place together and at the same pace as the negotiations with the doctors' union. However, the agreement on the table and the fact that particular attention is paid to the arrangements for the worst paid within the public sector, to update the scale of the regression in an appropriate way, to introduce a higher premium for collective supplementary pension insurance and, lastly, to release some of the regular progress, provides an appropriate basis for the law before us to support. Of course, most of the work remains as announced by the minister for the following year and for the years ahead. In particular, in the light of the urgent modernisation of work, in particular in the light of the efficiency of the public sector and public servants. Both forerunners and process managers need more opportunities to effectively regulate work processes, and employees deserve the opportunity to be properly rewarded for good work, for innovation and for success, as it would be right for those who work poorly not to receive these rewards. One of the highlights in the comments of recent days is that in the public sector, with such measures and the legislative solutions that we have today, we allow under bans, the purchase of supplements and traditional annual fights for excellent assessments, which ultimately take place as a follow-up to the current tape as the only assessment. We are therefore pleased in the Group of Social Democrats that the Minister has announced the relevant changes and that we have also heard commitments from trade unions to contribute constructively to the urgent modernisation of the public sector. In the future, however, we would like to see such laws and prior arrangements received together with budgetary documents so as not to hunt for the last morning of the year. Of course we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u8	Good day to you all. Thank you for your word. Savings measures taken in response to the financial crisis have been hit by the most vulnerable social groups in the pocket. And there is no law on this and there will be no exception. I don't know why some people laugh about it. Its consequences are and will continue to be felt by the worst paid public servants, without whom no public institution, including this national assembly, has the basic working conditions. Despite the end of the crisis, austerity measures will continue to apply. The intervention laws, which were thought to be a very short time, are becoming, as you like to say in this government and coalition, a systemic solution. While the government has burdened 10% of the best paid in the country with tax reform, some civil servants — from cleaners to soldiers — still go to humanitarian organisations for help. The government says that there is no money to eliminate savings, but at the same time Slovenia is still lagging behind the European average for taxation of capital and property. If the government had left the income ladder alone, they could have eliminated the austerity measures. When the initial proposal of the law in question was rejected a month ago, since an agreement with the unions had not yet been reached, it seemed that saving on the weak would be eliminated. The negotiations followed, the mountain shook, the mouse was born. The whole public sector has been negotiating 56 million euros. This is a number that is practically identical to the one that was left to the richest in the country. In short, without the so-called mini tax reform, there would be no need for long-term negotiations. The coalition, the government most celebrated the raising of the regression to the worst paid public servants up to and including the 17th pay grade, from 790 to 1000 euros gross. It is an increase that will, to a minimum, relieve the socially most vulnerable, and yet all these civil servants are still in payment classes, which often do not even reach minimum wages. In these wage classes, this is not actually a vacation regression, as it is said, is a regression for purchase of food, clothing, school supplies for children. This is a regression for payment of bills, this is a regression for repayment of debts, whose regular repayment is made due to the poverty in which these people live over the year. It's a regression for living. Be silent, however, that the regression for those between the 17th and 30th grades has not changed or remains the same as the Government's original proposal that, for those between the 31st and 40th grades, it is only minimally raised, proportionally. Most of the increases in regression are based on the initial bill proposal for the best paid public servants and officials above the 41st grade, including us. Indeed, the bill we are considering is better than the original proposal that the Government arrogantly sought to bypass social dialogue. What's the worst-paid public servant or employee's trip to the Red Cross will be temporarily saved. It is also true that the law is at the same time a cover with which the best paid ones raise their incomes again and it is also true that the intervention austerity measures still remain in force. This kind of super-hikov policy of taking and giving to the poor continues and, of course, in the United Left, we do not agree. This kind of saving is not only unnecessary, it is also politically unacceptable and is also macro-economically irresponsible and we will not support the bill in the United Left. Because we still have some time. Today, two seconds more light than yesterday. There was a lot of talk about dialogue, although the Committee rapporteur said that the members of the unions were not harmonised and some social democratic apology about how they had the best intentions and the listing of some of the most demanding professions that had been forgotten was not an excuse. And with efficiency in the public sector, it is necessary to talk and think about the inefficiency of the system, but not to insult the worst paid in this National Assembly, which work more effectively than we do, which is more effective through life and would probably be a more effective negotiator than the current minister, who prefers to binge from helicopters. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u10	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! The fate of public sector wages is therefore well known next year. Supposedly, you could say, despite some dramatic contributions over the past six months. Therefore, it is logical to initialise and sign an agreement with representative public sector unions, which will further release some austerity measures, so it is logical, in view of this agreement, also initially with doctors. The Government will therefore not have to take unilateral measures to affect the rights of public servants. And the satisfaction is justifiable on both sides, with the unions so much greater, because after nine months of negotiations, they have actually gone through even more miraculously than they originally asked. We agree in New Slovenia. Of course, it is right that the adoption of this law will regulate the wage relations of the worst-paid groups of public servants who do not reach even the minimum wage. And it is also right that the Government has managed to negotiate with the public sector unions. For these reasons, this law would be very welcome in New Slovenia, but some issues remain widely open. And here are the reasons why we will not support this law in Novi Slovenija. Firstly, there is no answer to the question of how the government will replace €56 million in the budget in 2017, thus comforting public servants. And almost once more to comfort doctors on the other side. Where will this money come back to the budget? In Novi Slovenija we anticipate that these funds will be sought by the Government on the expenditure side, as there is actually no reflection on the revenue side, despite the European Commission's warning that Slovenia must continue with structural reforms. That's not the spirit or the hearing. In essence, it only acts in the field of the economy, but be careful – with those measures that actually place an additional burden on economic operators rather than burdening them. And the problem is the way you think. It divides, but it doesn't look where we get the money so we can share. Thus, already in January 2017, in a few days, the corporate income tax is increased. So much for this spurious budget for next year. I am actually asking the respectable coalition whether we are aware that the economy has lost 90,000 jobs in recent years. And on the other hand, you count on the fingers of one hand how many jobs people in public administration have lost. In fact, we can count them on the fingers of one hand. Another reason why Nova Slovenija does not support today’s law is that the Law for the municipalities entails considerable additional costs in terms of higher wages and other labour costs. What about the height of the average? The proposal of municipalities to increase the average by €5.6 is fully justified. But local self-government is one of the rare things that works in our country practically and very well. Why, then, do we put extra pressure on the congregations in all areas? This remains one of the open questions again. Thirdly, the government still doesn't know where it's going to take these funds, as I said at the outset. It only ensures that the budget, despite the release of these measures and despite the agreement with doctors, is still sustainable, although on the other hand it does not even know how much the agreement with doctors will cost. How long will it take us in our wallets to stand for this deal? The Minister of Health says, somewhere between €30 billion and €50 billion, very superficial. Today is December 21st, and we still can't count two plus two. The fact is that in the area of wages for 2017 we are still talking only about savings and Zujf, which has also brought concrete effects for the country's budget. It is a shame that policy is adopted and is owed at the expense of social peace, but it does not create anything or can only do so through additional burdens on the economy and higher taxes. And until the burdens between the economy and the public administration are evenly and fairly distributed, such measures cannot produce the desired effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u12	Good morning. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law on wage measures and other labour costs. Those who follow our work in the last week, especially in these last two days, may feel that there are some extraordinary conditions in Slovenia. Yesterday afternoon, it was necessary to have a committee and this morning, relatively early for the work of the National Assembly, a meeting of the National Assembly. And all because the government and the ruling coalition didn't do their job in time. The fact is that Slovenia has seen economic growth for several years. The fact is that this government has a billion, billion more euros than the money in the 2013 state budget. And it is last time to remove the infamous Zujf of 2012 and the measures necessary for Slovenia to follow the right path, to introduce other system laws – if, of course, your assessment is necessary. The way this law is adopted is definitely wrong. A month ago, we were adopting a state budget. At that time, two ministers – the minister sitting here today and the Minister of Finance – claimed that even the euro of manoeuvre was no longer to pay. Today is not a problem of 56 million. What should Members and Members of Parliament believe, or what should people believe? That you have adopted the right budget and there is no room for manoeuvre, or that you have adopted the budget in such a way that all Members can, from now on, propose laws with 50 million financial implications and there is no reason why this money is not provided in the budget? Fiscal framework – what does the fiscal framework do if you tear it down a month after that? What about the congregations? What's going to happen to the medical checkout? Endless questions. But despite this, the unions in this process have certainly shown significantly more state-of-the-artism than the government. If the government knew what it was doing, if the government knew what its goal was, we would have this law on the table when we were adopting the budget. And respected colleagues and colleagues, public financial policies are not so well managed that today you say, "no, not even the euro of space", and tomorrow you will find more than 50 million spaces in public finances to realize some kind of agreement. And if you look at it somehow on the side, you feel like the one who pushes hard enough on the government, but it works. And that's not good. You need to know where you want, you need to have a goal. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if it is for doctors – and it is right that – if it is for other public servants – and it is right that – if it is for 2 January – and it is right – then you will find money for pensioners. I believe that in this National Assembly we will find a majority to ensure that pensioners are fully harmonised and regressed in the coming year. In the Alliance, we have drawn up a marriage, and we will also file it, and I believe that you will not only stay with words and promises, but we can count on your vote as well. We will not oppose this law in our parliamentary group, and both Members of the Alliance will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As you know, the National Assembly at its previous 24th regular session did not adopt the Law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017, as it would therefore reject the continuation of social dialogue and unilaterally intervene in an agreement between the public sector unions and the government. We have thus achieved that social dialogue and the negotiating process itself have continued. According to the assessment of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, both sides have shown maximum readiness to reach an agreement and also to act responsibly in the following dialogue and negotiations, as they have reached a compromise which is good. It is good for both public servants and the state. The increased resources in the area of salaries and other public sector labour costs are to the greatest extent intended for those who are in the lowest wage groups and who live the most difficult. However, part of the funds will be earmarked for the elimination of payment anomalies. The agreement will pay the highest number of employees in the public sector. This includes the annual leave regression, which will be paid in 2017 up to and including the 16th pay grade of thousands of euros. It also seems important to us that, after many years, injustices begin within the pay system. By agreement, both the government and the public sector unions have proven that we are able to find appropriate compromise solutions that, after years of saving, mean an improvement in the position of public servants. On the other hand, they still maintain sustainable public financial frameworks. The agreement is also important because, at the previous meeting, the National Assembly adopted budgets for the next two years despite the inadequacy of the costs of salaries and other labour costs for the public sector. Notwithstanding the criticisms and opinions expressed that the two state budgets for the following year have been adopted in contravention of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law on Public Finance, the Group of the Modern Centre recalls that the agreement with the public sector unions and the law was concluded or adopted before the start of the following financial year in accordance with the rules and that the agreement was concluded within the financial measures and commitments of the Government for 2017. Additional commitments that have been aligned with the unions will, according to the Ministry of Finance, be settled in accordance with the public finance rules in the context of the existing public financial expenditure with the corresponding reallocations and the restriction on certain other expenditure, but without drastic cuts in the projected forms of development. The content achieved is publicly manageable; the overall impact on public spending in 2017 is expected to be €56 million. If all measures were to be released, public expenditure would increase by EUR 215 million and EUR 160 million in 2017. Of the 215 million, they represent bonuses for collective supplementary pension insurance of EUR 54 million, the amount of which is the subject of a collective contract for non-economic activities and not subject to law. Today's law is governed by the following agreement with the unions: the amount of the regression, the restrictions on performance, the delay in progress and the possibility of lower payment of collective supplementary pension insurance. The amount of premiums is determined, as already mentioned, by an annex to the collective agreement for non-economic activities. It is also worth mentioning that there are safeguards in the agreement that are included in the agreement – both with regard to agreement on basic issues of salaries and public servants legislation and with regard to the agreement with doctors. Otherwise, it seems important to us in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre that all together, as well as the government and also the trade union side, we are working together for the good of the State and that we are designing and adopting measures to achieve prosperity for all the inhabitants of this country. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will of course support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u16	Your Honor! We have before us the proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other public sector measures proposed by the Government for adoption following an urgent procedure. This is a document which, due to the financial consequences and impact on public finances, should be prepared transparently and in accordance with Article 148 of the Constitution, which provides that the country's revenue and expenditure should be balanced in the medium term, without being indebted or must exceed the expenditure. In its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of this law, the Government refers even to compliance with the Fiscal Rule Act. We rightly ask ourselves whether, by referring to fiscal law, the Government is making fun of itself or is making a fool of itself as a whole country. In fact, how can one rely on compliance with the Fiscal Rule Act, which at the same time violates it? Let me also recall the words of the Modern Centre Party at the time of the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, and I quote: "The adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act is understood as one of the fundamental instruments of state-building for the gradual consolidation and further stabilisation of public finances and for the further economic and social development of the country." I hope that the largest coalition party, at least on the basis of its own claims, understands what it is playing at, and threatens the economic and social development of the country by violating the law and the Constitution. We have already warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting budgets or rebalancings for the next two years, that it is a violation of the Fiscal Rule Act and, consequently, of the Constitution, since the law provides, inter alia, that the Fiscal Council is preparing an assessment of compliance with fiscal rules when it comes to a proposal for a state budget or a proposal for a state budget rebalancing. We have also pointed out that there is an important document missing from the adoption of the budgets, and this is a document that we are adopting quickly and slightly today when the budget or the budget rebalancing is already adopted. All our warnings, however, are in fact deaf to the government and the coalition. They are not even touched by the European Commission's warning that there are risks of non-compliance with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact and called on the Slovenian Government to take appropriate measures. The proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 is a harmonised document, and this is not at all. It is true that an agreement was signed with the trade unions yesterday and a declaration was sent to the National Assembly on the degree of harmonisation of the text of the law, but after the signing of the said agreement, we received additional amendments at the request of the head of the negotiating group of public sector trade unions with regard to the non-coordinated members. That worked for the union, too. In addition, it should be pointed out that with their proposal for an amendment they also responded to the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and proposed that the amount of the average for 2017 of EUR 535.6 should also be set in the Act in question. The latter is not the law in this proposal, although the Government, on the other hand, imposes a large part of the means for the implementation of this law on the congregations. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance stated at yesterday's Committee on Internal Affairs and Public Administration that out of the 56 million envisaged to be needed to implement this law, if at all sufficient, the municipalities would fall to as many as 24 million. In short, the government has not agreed with the municipalities on averages, yet it imposes new obligations on it or the provision of funds. In this way, the government again creates a new category of second-class. Is the operation and management of the country responsible in this way, Your Honor? Is the adoption of acts in violation of the legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia a responsible act? Is the creation of new categories of second-class citizens and citizens responsible? Since we are working and creating a responsible policy in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot support the work of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the DeSUS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u18	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Once again, we have a proposal for a law to regulate the release of measures and the increase in the salaries of public servants. At the November regular meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal was not suitable for further consideration, as there was no agreement between the Government and the trade unions at that time. Today, however, the situation is completely different. The government and the leaders of the negotiating groups of the representative public sector unions are 16 12. For 2016, they initialled an agreement on measures in the field of labour costs and other measures in the public sector [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u19	Colleagues, colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u20	But they signed it on the 21st. 12. 2016 – An important agreement on the partial abolition of austerity measures and wage abnormalities worth €56 million. [[...]] In the Desus Group, we believed that the Government and the unions would only find a common language so that an agreement could be reached, so today, when we consider the bill, we are very pleased that this agreement has only been reached. The unions have thus succeeded in halting the decline in the salaries of public officials, which is primarily their task, and the government has managed to secure sustainable public finances. Thus, the conditions for the adoption of the proposal are met. For, as we have already said when we consider an uncoordinated bill at a regular November meeting, in the Desus Group we do not agree to adopt unilateral measures, because such measures could certainly lead to a conflict that none of us would want. Given that Slovenia has recorded economic growth over the last three years, it is still appropriate to follow this welcome reality in the area of wages and other labour costs for 2017 and public sector measures. And today is the beginning of this moment. Of course, in the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a law, and we stress that in the future we want fruitful cooperation between the Government and trade unions. We are pleased that both sides are satisfied with the agreement because the financial implications of the agreement are manageable. At the same time, the agreement gives more and more to those who are in a worse social situation. Most importantly, a significant step forward has been taken for those who receive the lowest wages. This will, among other things, give employees up to the 16th pay grade in the amount of thousands of euros. It must be made clear that there has been sufficient savings at the expense of nurses, educators and all other employees in the public sector. Finally, we are pleased that a solution has been found for the premiums of collective supplementary pension insurance, especially for those over 55 years of age, which will be paid in 80% throughout the year. In the Desus Group we expect a non-discriminatory relationship between the Government and pensioners, and therefore in 2017 we require an annual allowance for all pensioners totalling EUR 40 million. In view of the above, we will support the proposal for a law in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-22-SDZ7-Izredna-41.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We therefore vote on the law. There are 60 Members and Members present, 48 for whom there were votes in favour, one Member against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament, please remove from the Chamber everything you have on the bench, so that the competent services of the assembly can prepare everything necessary for the holding of the festive meeting on the day of independence and unity, which will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. Thank you very much.
