ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 39th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, Mrs. Marinka Levičar, Mrs. Ljudmila Novak from 16:00 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 16.30 p.m. to 20:00 p.m., Mr. Bojan Podkrodšek, Mr. Igor Zorčič, Dr. Franz Runk, mag. Matthew Tonin, Mr. Joseph Horvat, Dr. Dragan Matić from 15.30 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Branko Grims, Mr Janez Janša and Mr Ivan Hršak. I invited the representative of the Council of State to point 2 and representatives of the Government to the two agenda items. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday 29 November 2016 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. This is for a re-decision on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018. The State Council is at the 25th extraordinary session of 24. 11. 2016 requested that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before the announcement on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Milan Ozimić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed veto is somehow due to developments in the design and adoption of budgets for 2017 and 2018 and, of course, to the expected result of the reaction of the State Council to the initiative of the Local Interests Group, which are in fact the only representatives of local interests in a State body. The initiative was adopted unanimously in the Interest Group of Local Interests and in the State Council with a large majority – 27 for and 2 for. Such a decision means that with the budgets so adopted in that part that relate to the functioning of municipalities and the resolution of their financial problems through the adopted state budget, something is very wrong. Of course, this veto of the State Council must also be taken to mean that such a practice of acceptance and partnership between the local level, the government and the majority in the National Assembly must somehow be interrupted and a partnership established if we are to resolve the problem in a partnership manner rather than to adopt such a procedure in a formalistic, legalistic or other way. If I can just point out what those fundamental findings are that come from this matter, even though you've received the material. The fundamental point is that the applicant – and ultimately the National Assembly or its coalition majority – did not take into account and did not listen to very substantial arguments in the previous proceedings. This story is repeated years ago, not a new situation that would have been so problematic. The basic point is that in this dialogue, which should govern, the Government as a proponent does not recognise the development and adequate financing of municipalities and the regulation of this issue as an urgent development priority, so that local government and its functioning are still important in terms of the functioning of the whole country and of all its constituent parts, i.e. the territorial view of the municipalities. With such budgets adopted and budgets implemented, and in addition through legislation, regulations, regulations or decrees, they increase the financial obligations of the municipalities, i.e. for that urgent part, the mandatory tasks of the municipalities which the municipalities already claim cannot cover. This is about covering and fulfilling these obligations at the expense of own resources and earmarked funds, which are intended for development or for resolution on the basis of a specific benefit for a specific purpose, but cannot go for transfers, wages and other bonds. Finally, the general statement that such an adopted budget, given that it is not in line with the requirements of public sector unions with regard to the increase in wages and public servants, also affects local burdens, is not harmonised and is not relevant in the municipalities. Therefore, the arguments are valid enough to reconsider that if there is no change this time, at least in the coming years when similar procedures await us, there will be more hearing for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u3	It was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at the 31st meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. 12. as a parent labour body, considered the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. The Committee was informed of the request of the Council of State, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government's position on the request of the Council of State. Representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In its opening remarks, the rapporteur of the State Council, as on behalf of the proposer, explained on behalf of the Committee the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented in detail the key arguments of the State Council. The Minister of Finance further presented the reasons why the Government considers that the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 is appropriate. In her presentation, she rejected the findings of the opinion of the Council of State. It stressed that in preparing the budget, the Government is bound by the Fiscal Rule Act and the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019, which should also be taken into account in the provisions relating to the financing of local self-government. It assessed that the Government had found an appropriate balance between the financial capacity of the State budget and the needs of the municipalities. However, with regard to the public sector union's failure to coordinate the budget and the requirements of the public sector union, it stated that the law in question does not contain provisions governing salaries in the public sector. In addition, the Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration briefly completed the explanation of the Minister of Finance concerning the coordination of the Government with representatives of local self-government. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the indications of the State Council in the request for re-decision relate to questions relating to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the arrangements to which that service cannot be defined. The debate focused on the harmonisation of the budget for 2017 and 2018. Some members of the Committee supported the opinion of the Council of State that the budget is not harmonised because the budget is currently unknown, the deficit is unknown and the general public sector balance is not attached. These facts make it difficult to ensure the financial stability of the country. However, the proponents stressed that the law under consideration was a technical act, but they also considered that the State Council's opinion stressed the interests of local communities. Otherwise, the budget is adopted and harmonised and the government has until the end of the year time to comply with public sector unions. During the discussion, the Minister of Finance answered the questions raised and provided further clarifications. Following the discussion, the Committee, by a majority of the votes of all members, adopted an opinion that the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u5	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposaler of the law. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tillen Bozič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia voted at its 25th extraordinary meeting two weeks ago that you must decide again in the National Assembly before the Law on the Implementation of Budgets in the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. As is evident from the debate at the meeting and from the request of the Council of State, the Council of State opposes the implementation of that law because it is not intended to provide adequate funding for Slovenian municipalities. In connection with the financing of municipalities, it is appropriate to clarify that the preparation of budgets should take into account both the European Directive on requirements relating to the budgetary frameworks of the Member States and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This provides that the country's revenue and expenditure must be balanced in the medium term without debt or that the revenue must exceed the expenditure. This principle may only be temporarily derogated from in exceptional cases. The Fiscal Rule Act provides that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, shall each year adopt a framework for the preparation of sector budgets, a country in which the target balance and the maximum total amount of expenditure of the State sector shall also be established for each year. Within the current framework, the maximum allowed expenditure of the state sector for 2017 is €18.4 billion and €18.5 billion for 2018. That amount of expenditure of the sector follows the provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act, which require that, in the context of public financial planning, the route of gradual fiscal consolidation be followed. Slovenia came out of the surplus deficit procedure this year, which means that the country's budget planning needs to take into account the rules relating to debt and expenditure reduction. The State budget as the largest public treasury funding in compliance with these rules is crucial. The financing mechanism for local communities is laid down by the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. In view of the public financial situation in recent years, a number of measures have also been taken in the area of Community funding, which have reduced the expenditure of their budgets. The restrictions adopted in the light of the foregoing can only be eased gradually, as otherwise they would jeopardise the achievement of the objectives set. With the funding of municipalities set for 2017 and 2018, it was intended to bring the municipality's expectations as close as possible, while taking into account all other needs and constraints for which the State budget must provide funding. For 2017, the average of €530 per capita is thus guaranteed and €536 per capita this year. At the same time, the most economically powerful municipalities in 2018 are also reimbursed for 50% of their resources. The transfer of ZIPRS 2017/2018 also sought to bring municipalities closer to other areas, for example, by allowing municipalities to use the funds they receive for investment to carry out debt operations. It is also possible for municipalities to be additionally in charge of their own share of financing the investment or of returning the financial corrections made to the investment where they are financed from the EU budget through the quota laid down in the Law on the Financing of the Communities. ZIPRS also redefines the possibility that municipalities that exceed the maximum permitted amount of debt can also be indebted to debt management. Investment transfers under Article 21 of the Law on the financing of municipalities, which are also gradually increasing, should be added. This is not to be forgotten that after 10 months of the implementation of municipal budgets this year, municipalities are recording around €78 million in surplus, which will be slightly reduced by the end of the year, as additional commitments in the field of investment are being made in the autumn. Nevertheless, the picture, as revealed by the information sent to us by the congregations, is not critical. A proposal for amendments to the ZFO is also being prepared, where the revised formula for the distribution of appropriate consumption between municipalities will address the pressing problems of municipalities with regard to taking into account, in particular, expenditure related to preschool children and older citizens. A working group will also be formed, consisting of representatives of ministries and associations of municipalities, which will review the programmes that are the basis for the calculation of the appropriate consumption and remove from these superstandard services as well. Last week, the Constitutional Court issued a decision assessing the constitutionality of several provisions in the field of municipal financing. The key message is that, among other things, it has found that the municipalities share with the country the responsibility for managing economic and fiscal policies, including in terms of saving public spending. The government therefore rejects the findings of the State Council in order to ensure adequate funding for Slovenian municipalities and insists on fiscal consolidation, in which all units of the state sector contribute in proportion. On those grounds, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to reconfirm the draft Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u8	Thank you so much again for saying that. Say good-bye again! Today we are again deciding on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. For the Council of State has, as we have heard, voted that the National Assembly should once again decide on it before the promulgation of this law. This is a law which is essentially intended for the implementation of the budget. The implementation of this law, which we are re-deciding today, is therefore a necessary and direct condition for the implementation of the budgets already adopted for 2017 and 2018, which will also allow their implementation. The views of the National Council against the implementation of this law relate mainly to their assessment that we do not provide adequate funding for Slovenian municipalities and that the Government does not place local self-government among priority projects. It is true that since the public financial crisis, there has been a deviation from the principle of proportionality, which means that the revenue of the municipalities must be proportionate to the scope of the tasks, powers and responsibilities of the municipalities. The average amount determined by the agreement between the Government and the associations or by the law governing the implementation of the budget has significantly deviated from the necessary legally calculated average in recent years, as the State budget was not able to provide a difference due to domestic circumstances and international constraints. While the objective of achieving a long-term stable system of public expenditure remains the primary objective of this Government in the 2017 and 2018 budgets, in these contexts the Government has discussed and coordinated with the municipalities or their representative associations both on the average level and on the obligations of all the tasks the municipalities have to provide to their citizens. In 2017 and 2018, more money is allocated to the implementation of all tasks and programmes, taking into account further fiscal consolidation. Compared to the previous years, this increase in the population average of €530 per capita for 2017 and €536 per capita for 2018. In addition, 50% of the eligible funding of €9 million is returned to the economically most powerful municipalities. Important information is also achieved by harmonisation between the Government and the municipalities on the average level for 2017, which is assessed as a positive indicator of movements in the right direction in our group and thus with all the indications set out in the request of the Council of State, we cannot agree, although we are aware that the current model of average calculation will need to be improved in the future, taking into account data on real costs or data on standardised costs, depending on the type of tasks where possible. This intervention would also bring the system even closer to the principles of community financial autonomy. Solidarity between the congregations should not be based on a balance sheet and harm the better - developed congregations. Particular attention will have to be paid to administrative costs and administrative obstacles at the level of the country to which municipalities are alerting, on the one hand, and to administrative obstacles placed in the local system by municipalities themselves. In the procedures for setting the average under the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, the Association of Municipalities always draws attention to the provisions of the regional rules laying down the tasks of municipalities and to the provisions of the sub-legislative rules laying down public service standards, such as basic education, childcare, water supply and so on, containing certain unreasonable requirements and administrative burdens for municipalities. The government has therefore adopted a Local Self-Government Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia by 2020 in September this year, which stated that activities will also focus on removing such administrative barriers, where competent ministries will play a major role in cooperation with other ministries, including local self-government and community associations. In addition to the issue of community funding, the Council of State has also pointed out in its request the amount of salaries paid by public servants if there were unforeseen higher financial implications in wage negotiations with public sector unions. On the Committee on Finance, the Minister of Finance ensured that in this case the issue of average height for 2017 would be re-examined. If I finish, we will re-support the Implementation of the Budget Act 2017 and 2018 in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u9	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly will today re-decision on the Budget Implementation Act 2017 and 2018. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the decision taken by the Council of State and probably for the first time in history almost unanimously voted veto. It should be recalled that the Slovenian Democratic Party used the instrument provided by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in the vote on the implementation of the budgets for 2017 and 2018 at the regular meeting of the National Assembly. We obstructed the vote for several reasons. We are convinced that the Budget Implementation Act 2017 and 2018 is linked to the adoption of budgets for 2017 and 2018. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that for the first time in the history of Slovenia we have witnessed such an event that the budget was adopted without a legal basis. We are convinced that the budgets for 2017 and 2018 are uncoordinated and unbalanced. The fact is that the government has not negotiated with the public sector unions and that a number of issues are still open. In the Law on the Implementation of Budgets for 2017 and 2018, the problem is not only the average for municipalities, where we have also tabled an amendment to increase this average in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The coalition of the Modern Centre Party, Desus and Social Democrats rejected such an amendment. The main problem we see is, of course, the imbalance in the budget. We will not support such a proposal today and we will vote against it. We will vote against it because we are convinced that the Budget Implementation Act 2017 and 2018 is a related budget document and, given that the budget is inconsistent, we cannot support such a document in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Your Honor! We have yet again before us the draft Law on the implementation of the budgets for 2017 and 2018, which we will once again support in the Desus Group. We will support it, because without it it would be difficult to implement the adopted budget smoothly. Generally speaking, public finances are showing an increasing trend, but we still need to reduce the structural deficit that we are reducing towards the medium-term objective in line with the fiscal rule. The country's deficit is planned at 1.6% of GDP for the following year and at 1% in 2018. We must say that we regret that there is no consensus on averages, no limit on the appropriate use of funds and resources to co-finance investments between municipalities and the Government. In the Desus Group, we are aware that there are numerous financial difficulties in the municipalities, including the recently adopted Funeral and Funeral Act, which we opposed in Desus. Otherwise, we agree that the averages due to the financial framework of the budget cannot be higher, but the country could be more cautious in the future when adopting legislation with which the additional public funds are poor. Despite the fact that public sector wage policy is regulated separately from this law, we must stress the following in recent events. We do not understand how the fact that the Government thus favours one group of citizens towards the others can advocate as a modernisation of health care. What is the message that we are sending to, for example, socially disadvantaged pensioners who have been following up on the latest discussions on the budget, where we have been arguing for a long time about the little difference in coordination? At the same time, we watch on TV how we sign agreements that are measured in some 10 million, but it shows that we do not know what we have signed because financial effects are interpreted differently. How will the other unions that do not receive these benefits respond, or the lowest paid public servants, as some of them also work in health care in the so-called J class and have difficulty living from day to day? Do they, too, view this move as a modernizing of health care? Then let us modernise them too, modernise the regression and allow everyone, not just those with low pensions. As has already been said, in the Desus Group, we will still back up the bill because its adoption is nevertheless necessary for the smooth implementation of the adopted budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u13	Mrs Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In re-decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, we will re-vote for this Act. It is a matter of the fact that the dialogue between the municipalities and the government has nevertheless taken place at a more constructive level than in the previous year and that, last but not least, an agreement has been reached which is crucial. This raises the average from €522 to €530 in 2017 and €536 in 2018. It is therefore important that the Government and the representatives of the congregations have aligned themselves in these discussions. We therefore see the initiative of the Council of State as an additional warning that a long-term solution must be sought regarding the tasks and competence of the congregations and their demarcating between the State and the municipalities. For I think it would be unfair to get the feeling that the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets is responsible for the inadequate financing of the municipalities. Surely we can find fault in the inadequate system of financing them and, in fact, never completed sharing of powers between municipalities and the country, but above all, we believe that the fact that the municipalities have little or no resources of their own to actually create their own policy here is a major fault. In the context of the reasons for rejecting the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, the proposer also touches on negotiations with the public sector unions. Here we wish to stress that the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets does not affect the salaries of public servants in any way and therefore its adoption is not linked to the outcome of the wage negotiations between the Government and the public sector unions. However, at this point, of course, we also express the expectation that an agreement will be reached and that not all options have been exhausted here, which, after all, proves an agreement between the municipalities and the government. However, the fact that municipalities will play a very important role in the coming years, especially by 2020, further substantiates the fact that Slovenia, as a country, had a wide range of European funds available from 2007 to 2013, and will, of course, be less in the new financial perspective by 2020, particularly in both funds that allow investment in infrastructure. The Cohesion Fund is reducing funding from €562 million to €895 million, and from €783 million to €390 million in regional development, a total of €1 billion and €60 million. These are the data which certainly suggest that in the future the municipalities will have to play an important role because of their investment orientation, as they did after the financial and economic crisis, where we have actually mitigated this crisis precisely because of the investments made under the municipal budgets. Therefore, we believe that dialogue with the municipalities should really be sought further, including in this context, how to ensure as much investment as possible through the resources available to us in our own budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u15	The text is given by the Joint Left Group for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we will once again vote against it. This law not only limits the harmonisation of pensions but also prevents any harmonisation of parental, child and disability allowances. It provides for an extension of savings in socially disadvantaged persons, while savings in privileged persons have already been completed. At our previous meeting in the United Left, we recalled that 10% of the best paid due to two changes in the income scale during the Cerara government next year will have €80 million higher income. In the meantime, the government confirmed an agreement with Fides, which would increase doctors' salaries by EUR 36 million. Cerar's coalition will therefore abolish the austerity measures in favour of the privileged who have been least affected by the savings. What happens to the others, and we'll see. As it now appears, most of the measures that affect socially disadvantaged groups will be transformed into structural ones. I cannot help but recall the cynical statements made by the Minister of Finance, who said on the Committee: "It is not true that public financial consolidation works only on the shoulders of pensioners". It is true, it is also saved in other vulnerable groups, and even more so. At least the pensions will be aligned for that charity 1.15%, the disability, parental and child allowance and the unemployment allowance will not be increased by another two years. Let me remind you that, for example, the allowance received by unemployed parents, which is their basic income, amounts to 252.4 euros per month or slightly more than 3,000 euros per year. In the public sector, there are a whole range of officials, mostly doctors, who earn that much every month. There will obviously be more of these under the agreement with the FIDES. Of course, the recipients of social transfers can also be comforted by a statement by the Minister of State that last year the Government did not align social benefits with the negative increase in living costs. Someone who receives €252 of parental allowance must, by this logic, express their gratitude for not lowering it to €250. The comment's probably completely out of line. But it is important to tell people that our society will create 2.7 billion more this year than consumption. It certainly does not hold that there are no funds for decent social benefits. Of course, they would or would be if the coalition did not reduce taxes on high wages and provided that the funds to the privileged are directed to the disadvantaged. Despite Cerari’s constant talk about how he resists the lobby, the government is unable or unwilling to do so. The freezing of the coordination of social benefits and the restrictions on the coordination of pensions are unfortunately not the only grave errors in this law. It is also unacceptable that the State and the municipalities can transfer the surpluses of public institutions to their budgets and use them literally for anything. This year the Ljubljana Municipality will only draw €6 million from Lekarna Ljubljana, which will be used instead of for the health care of the Ljubljana people to build new garages, including garages under the market. Of course, one wonders what will be the point of limiting the availability of the surpluses of pharmacies in the Pharmacy Act if it can be suspended by a coalition with one paragraph in the ZIPS at any time. Let me get this. The freezing of social benefits and pensions and the poverty of public institutions was unacceptable at the outset. Even less acceptable now, with the Fides strike agreement in place, is the association of one of the most privileged professional groups in the country. We will therefore vote against it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u17	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president of the National Assembly! The Council of State gave this law a legitimate veto. Every time we adopt a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly, we must first stop on the issue of the financing of municipalities. Why? Because in recent times it seems that actual municipalities are receiving or accepting more and more duties and, on the other hand, the Government with low averages is actually making their operation more difficult. This trend is also followed by the proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, which practically forms the framework for the functioning of Slovenian municipalities. That is why in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats for the deposit of this veto and for the common sense shown to the councils of the state, we thank each other very much. In Novi Slovenije we advocate the possibility that at lower and more basic levels of society everything that can best be regulated there is said according to the principle of subsidiarity. Local communities are best aware of the problems and needs of their communities, so we must also allow them and allow them to regulate their own affairs. Unfortunately, however, the coalition, by means of a way of financing local communities, which is also provided for in this law, opposes the Christian-democratic principle of subsidiarity. Our villages are old and empty, and in Novi Slovenija we do not agree to the aspirations of over-centralisation and destruction of the Slovenian countryside. In the Member State of New Slovenia, we have tabled an amendment on the basis of the country's rural working body, proposing that the average for both years, i.e. EUR 530 for 2017 and EUR 536 for 2018, increase to EUR 543. Unfortunately, despite our amendment and good recommendations, the government coalition has thus remained deaf and rejected our amendment. One more thing is worth mentioning when we decide on this veto of the Council of State, namely the imbalance of the budget. We are actually coming into an unreality or an unrealistic situation, we are adopting the final phase of the budget for 2017, but we do not know how we will finance certain things, how, at least as far as the public sector is concerned, we will organise these things and where the money will come from, despite the various sweets we share at 2 January and so on. Then all the social actors in this room are getting louder. It's not serious that we accept the budget, we don't have the budget closed, we don't know how we're going to finance things, but on the other hand, the wishes are getting bigger. This is because dialogue is lacking in this country, even in this coalition. Dialogue, dialogue and dialogue once again, when there is no room for dialogue, continue dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u19	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 26. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. On the eve of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommends in relation to the alarming situation of negative demographic trends and its irresistibility. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 24 MEPs and first-signed MEPs. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the group of 26 MEPs and Members with the first-signed magi recommended. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Mrs Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenije, we have again decided to remind the National Assembly and, above all, the Government that in our work, so in the management of the country, it is too forgetting about demography. Demographic analyses and experts' warnings are going very quickly past us, because it seems to us that this is somewhere in the future beyond our mandate, that other teams of Members or other governments will have to face this problem and that it is not our business. In New Slovenia, we would like to focus now on the essentials and not only on how the government, in particular the Government of Mir Cerar, will think about how it will only lead to the end of its mandate, but we will now think about how to face predictions in the field of demography that threaten Slovenia. Let me reiterate that this is not about scaring the opposition, as some have told us. Government authorities also point to these things. One of them is the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which has prepared a document entitled Demographic Change and its economic and social consequences, which clearly highlights such negative trends. The first graph you can see on the projection is very talkative and speaks for yourself. The European Commission has examined the sustainability of individual Member States' policies and has found that, in the long term, socio-economic policies are the most unsustainable in Slovenia. If you look at the entire European map, only Slovenia is shaded in rare colors. The European Commission's conclusion, therefore, is that if this country does not change its social and economic policies, these systems will be unsustainable over a long period of time. We will have to be increasingly indebted and our country will be in an increasingly difficult position. One of the key demographic challenges is population ageing. The population is getting old pretty fast. On the screens you can see a graph with a projection of population ageing in Slovenia by 2060. According to our assessment, the next ten years will be crucial. Over the next ten years, the number of citizens over 60 will increase by as much as 100,000. According to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, almost every third Slovenian will be 65 or more years old in 2060. In 2015 almost one fifth of the population in Slovenia is 65 years old and over, including almost three fifths of women. Due to the specific characteristics of our country, the ageing population and related challenges in Slovenia are even more pronounced and a pressing issue. All of this means a great deal of pressure on the health and pension allowance and on the expenditure of the social treasury. These systems would be compromised if they were in good condition, but we all know that there are already major problems in the functioning of pension, health and social protection in Slovenia today and are our reality. The ageing population has major socio-economic consequences that affect all aspects of society's life, and the European Commission therefore reminds Member States that they need to adapt different systems such as health, pension, long-term care, education and the labour market. We continue to highlight the priority areas that are important for intergenerational solidarity and the provision of quality age. The birth rate in Slovenia is too low. Many of us live in a false belief that the birth rate in Slovenia is not so bad. However, if we compare it with, for example, Belgium or another European country, we can find that fertility in Slovenia is extremely poor. The level of easy renewal of the population or the long-term survival of the nation requires the birth of 2.1, which means that about 30,000 children should be born in Slovenia every year. That's how many were born in the '80s. Today, generations are smaller for a third. In the last period, some 20,000 children are born. Each government should first ask how to increase fertility and what young people point out not to decide on more children. Most of the time, the job and the unresolved housing issue are exposed. Ensuring more jobs and better employability of young people is a very complex issue. In our view, success can only be achieved by improving the business environment. How to ensure better access to affordable housing for young people should, however, be simple enough to allow this to be addressed more quickly. You can see more simple solutions around the world, so we do not understand why this is such a problem in Slovenia. With regard to the health system, we can all see and feel that the public health care we have today is in no way working. The halls of this health system have shown various shows in recent weeks and it is unacceptable that in the 21st century in Slovenia we have public health care where today people are still dying because of a bad organization. On the graph we can see that in 2016 the number of waiting for interventions over the permissible waiting period exceeded 44 000. This is unacceptable for a developed democratic state. In Novi Slovenija we did not stand at the crossroads of time and this year we prepared a concept of health reform, which would in particular change the financing of this healthcare system. In particular, we want to ensure a better review of the consumption and of the services provided by the health system. At the moment, there are a number of people who are called and unannounced who are simply taking commissions from the health care budget. We're asking the secretary what's going on with the long-term care. The society is getting older, the elderly need increasing health care, and we need to face the question of what is the long - term care of the elderly. Because it is not a matter of hospital care because these people are too weak to be at home, it is necessary to find a solution in order to ensure a decent life for these people too. The government is already late for the adoption of a law on long-term care. Let me also mention pension reform in this introduction. In New Slovenia we claim that our pension system is not sustainable. In the coming year and years thereafter, €1.3 billion will be allocated from the state budget. That's a lot of money. With this money, which is placed in a pension or pension allowance each year due to an unsustainable system, we could build a new TES-6 each year. Whoever claims that pension reform is unnecessary is a demagog for us. To be responsible for future generations, it must be made clear that pension reform is necessary. Why? Because the system we have today does not provide decent pensions. As a result of the pension system, as we have today, the real value of pensions falls from year to year. We have a system where the pension depends on the number of those who work and pay in the pension box and on the other hand on the number of those who are retired. The relationship between payers and pensioners is very important. For one time, this ratio is 137 employees who work for 100 pensioners. This relationship is falling more and more. Even the government in its White Paper notes that in 2060 this ratio can happen by making 97 employees work for 100 pensioners. This can be answered in two ways by the State. For the first time, to significantly increase the number of employees, that is to say, increase the payments to the pension fund. Another option is to extend working time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! For the introduction, I have laid some groundwork for today's debate on the extremely pressing challenges posed by demography. I am sorry that the coalition at the meeting of the parent committee rejected all points of the recommendation, which is primarily intended to assist the Government. You even rejected the amendments that followed the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which is truly incomprehensible. Nevertheless, we expect a good debate and we hope that you will learn as soon as possible that the recommendation is well-intentioned and that the future is in our hands. What it will be, however, will also depend on us Members and coalitions and governments. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The government should have started the changes yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u21	The proposal for a recommendation is at the 43rd urgent session of 29. 11. 2016 dealt with the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunities as the mother's working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the proposal after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mr Uroš Pikl, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At its 43rd meeting on 29 November this year, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the Proposal for a Recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the alarming situation of negative demographic trends and its non-responsibility, submitted by the Group of Members and Members with their first-signed colleague, Mate Tonin. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and representatives of the Youth Council of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the proposal for a recommendation from the point of view of its competence and from the point of view of its compliance with the Constitution itself. The extremely low fertility and consequent ageing of the population are estimated by the European Commission to be one of Europe's greatest social and economic challenges in 21. A century. It is not just Slovenia, but all the Member States of the European Union and beyond. In 2025, more than 20% of Europe's over 65-year-olds will be projected, and in particular the number of elderly people aged 80 plus will increase. An important question is what the state can do for a higher birth. The decline in fertility below the level of easy reproduction or easy renewal of the population is closely linked to the changed way of life of people, the changed organization of life in the family, the changed social role of women and the changed attitude towards children and family planning, which has resulted in a change between generations. Some of the reasons for the decline in birth rates in Slovenia are also considered by some to be insufficiently effective social and family policies. The debate itself highlighted priority areas that are important for intergenerational solidarity and the provision of quality age. The changes in health care and health insurance must provide adequate treatment and care while maintaining the financial sustainability of the medical treasury. In connection with the adjustment of pension schemes, demographic changes will also have a major impact on the labour market in Slovenia. The employment system will have to change or radically adapt. The government is responsible for preparing strategic documents such as a long-term society strategy, a family policy resolution, a migration strategy related to the development of the labour market. In addition, we are already very late for changes in health legislation or health reform, and we will also need to consider modifying the pension system. The debate stressed that we are aware that population ageing will bring about social, economic and other changes as well as the sustainability of public finances. It also raised the question of how to reach more employees and how to increase the number of children. From the point of view of the pension system, negative demographic trends may at least partially be mitigated by increased work activity and encouraging older people to remain active for longer. In a broad discussion on health and pension legislation modification, the demographic fund was also exposed as an institution that would allow long-term sustainability of the pension system, and consequently public finances, of course. An explicit proposal, a request, or a call to the Government to prepare a long-term supply and insurance bill as soon as possible — but indeed as soon as possible. At the conclusion of the debate, the Committee did not adopt the amendments proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats. At the conclusion of the proposal, the Committee voted on all points of the proposal together and did not adopt them. For a more detailed discussion report, see the report presented to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u23	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Peter Pogačar, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u24	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is absolutely aware of the problems related to demographic trends, but there is no indication that these trends are not being addressed and are not being addressed. In this regard, two issues need to be raised, namely the demographic issue and the issue of population ageing and the related extension of life expectancy. In Slovenia, the proportion of people over 65 years of age is rapidly increasing and the proportion of people over 80 years of age is even faster. This is something we have never known in the past in this way. But the fact is that we must take long-lived society as a change that requires new adaptations and new solutions everywhere in Europe – because this is the characteristic of a developed world – and not as a threat to increased public spending and a fall in productivity. The aging and longevity of society can also be a welcome change. With regard to demographic change, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already carried out several activities. In January this year, she took note of information from the Ministry of Labour on the preparation of strategic documents related to demographic change in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same meeting, she instructed the Ministry of Labour and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development to prepare an analysis of demographic trends on demographic challenges. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development prepared a so-called position paper in April this year, which is also referred to by the recommenders, a core document entitled Demographic Change and its economic and social consequences, and has already presented it to the working group set up by the Government for this purpose. This document is the basis for a comprehensive response by the Government of Slovenia to demographic change in Slovenia. The main starting point of this new strategy will be, as I said today in the introduction, that we must see a long-lived society as a change that requires new adaptations and solutions, not just as a threat to increasing public finances and falling productivity. We stress, however, that the response to society's longevity and demographic change must be integrated. It cannot therefore be the subject of only one partial policy, a sectoral policy, because this issue affects the broad spectrum of our society, our lives, the labour market, social protection systems, economies, health insurance and could still be listed. In March this year, the Ministry of Labour prepared a White Paper on pensions for public discussion, taking into account the envisaged change in demographic structure, serving as a basis for a broader public debate on how to ensure an adequate level of pensions and long-term financial sustainability in the future. The aim of the White Paper is to have a broader social debate, the kind of pension system we want, because these are so important issues that they go beyond the mandate of one reference, one policy. The ageing population will have consequences for our labour market. Slovenia will face labour shortages within a few years, as the number of working people between 20 and 65 will be significantly reduced. To this end, the Ministry has also prepared a document Older and labour market in Slovenia where the reasons for the low level of employment of older than 55 years and the proposed possible measures for a higher level of employment and better employability are analysed. Following the conclusion of the public debate and discussion with the social partners, the government will also adopt this document and will be accompanied by an action plan with concrete measures, deadlines and institutions in charge of implementing this measure. Let me conclude by thinking that the demographic problem is slightly broader than the measures to promote fertility. Measures to promote fertility are also important, but they are not the only ones. There are many challenges in this area and it is right to discuss them. However, the Government cannot agree with the assessment of the applicants that it is not aware of this problem or that it is preparing no solutions in this regard. On the contrary. I can say that the Government has decided to respond to these challenges in an integrated manner by drawing up an integrated strategy and various strategic documents that will form a whole together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u25	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, all of you welcome! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is co-signatory of the request for an emergency meeting and the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government on an alarming situation due to negative demographic trends and its non-response. Unfortunately, Slovenia is facing negative demographic trends or other, we have an extremely low birth rate and the average age of the population is rising as a result. Of course, Slovenia is not a lonely country in Europe facing such problems. The situation is similar in the rest of the European Union as well as in many other countries of the developed world. According to data and projections, the future ageing of the population and the reduction in the number of workers will be even more and more pronounced than in other countries of the European Union. Of course, the problem arises when the country does not respond to known trends and facts in a timely manner. Unfortunately, in this case, the longer the delay, the more rigorous the measures will have to be. In Slovenia, the social security system is already heavily burdened by public finances. Currently, 19% of gross domestic product is earmarked for social security. In view of the fact that the birth rate is decreasing, the labour force is becoming less active and the life expectancy of the population is increasing, this percentage could increase to as much as 25% of gross domestic product in the coming years, which is unsustainable for the country and its public finances. If we look at the pyramid of the population by age group, we can see that our pyramid has lost its foundations. If years ago were the most young, today we have a significant number of older ones. Trends suggest that the number of older people will double by 2060 compared to those in employment. On the other hand, low fertility will reduce the number of workers, meaning that by 2025 around 125,000 young people will be less able to work. This data, of course, means increasing pressure on both the pension and health allowance. Demographic changes are called for in larger areas, i.e. from changes in the labour market to education, to providing adequate social and social security services, changes and long-term sustainability of the pension system and so on. Our pension system is based on the fact that current pension funds come from currently active and part of the funds, around €1.4 billion, is covered by the budget. Unfortunately, it is not that you would receive money that you spent years paying when you retired. Of course, every citizen, when he goes to retirement, asks and makes a simple calculation of how much he has paid for his 40 years of pension work and why his pension is today such that it does not even enable many to survive normal age. If we look at a simplified calculation, we see that someone with an average Slovenian salary spends a month on contributions to a pension allowance of around €380 – this takes into account both the contribution of the worker and the employer – which adds up to €4 thousand 550 per year. In 40 years, that would mean 182 thousand euros. If this amount were to be divided into 25 years without yield and without taking into account the real value of the money, this would amount to EUR 608 per month. Taking account of 1% of the yield would mean 903 euros per month and at the expected 2% yield it would mean just over a thousand 300 euros per month. But as it is said, our pension system is based on the fact that employees today pay the contributions that are being spent on retired persons today. In doing so, it is expected that future generations will be paying contributions to those of us who are working today. Today, about 130 employees work for a hundred pensioners. Some years ago, 300 employees worked for a hundred pensioners. All of this, of course, has the effect that the pensions of those who retire today are significantly lower. Today, we have many pensioners with such low pensions that they simply cannot survive with them, which is also unacceptable for a developed country such as Slovenia. The pension system is based on solidarity, but it is not necessarily fair and even less encouraging for younger generations. Young people understand very well what the current pension system means. As they pay in their retirement allowance monthly, they are also increasingly encouraged to save for their age. Unfortunately, according to the current situation, guarantees for safe age cannot be seen. Many, of course, prefer to decide and leave Slovenia when entering the labour market and find work elsewhere, which, of course, means a double loss for us as a country. Where can we find solutions? The solutions are in a changed family policy, in a policy that raises fertility, in the grip of the so-called brain drain, that is, those young people going abroad, in the increase in the number of active workers and in attracting educated and working people into Slovenia, such as Austria, Canada, New Zealand. In order to make this possible, however, we need to adapt the education system adequately, which will take into account the needs of the market and the needs of the economy in the first place. We need to burden the economy in a way that only this can provide more jobs, we need to make a health reform that will curb corruption and significantly reduce waiting periods, and we need to regulate a system of long-term care. We need to create a fair social system whereby those who really need it will be assisted, and everyone who is able to work should be included in the labour market. We need to make such a pension system that will be just for those who are or will soon become pensioners, as well as those who are investing in the pension fund today, and not least for those who will invest in the pension fund in the future. We need to change the family policy that will promote an increase in fertility, which will have an impact on demographic challenges over the longer term. Even if we could raise fertility today, of course, this means that more young people will not enter the labour market until about 25 years later. Birth is important for the existence of society. Especially for us Slovenians, who are so few of us. The changed family policy has also had to be a priority for us for this reason. In the first place, we should put the family in the very center of society. It is a family and family must remain a base cell, as it allows its existence to continue. The amended measures should therefore aim at creating better conditions for family life. Young people always decide later on for their children and decide for fewer children. When asked where the reasons for this are, of course, they mention that the first reason is the job and the second reason is the apartment. However, in order to improve the employability of young people, we must, of course, do something to improve the economic environment and businesses both administratively and taxly. The country should do its utmost to ensure that young people in Slovenia see their future and to prevent the mass migration of working people, especially young people, abroad. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is essential that we talk about negative demographic trends today because they have an outstanding impact on our future. We will find long-term solutions first, a better future for Slovenian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u27	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u28	Your Honor, once again a good-bye! Allow me this time to brief you on the position of the Desus Group. We rejected the recommendations on this topic or on the almost identical issue of virtually the second time this year. The recommendations were also rejected by both members of the working body by the Desus Group, and not for any reason, because it would not attribute the importance or weight of demographics to an important role and meaning, but for this reason, because, together with most of them, they assessed that such proposals, as they were written here, do not contribute to any added value in the field of demographic policy and also more broadly. The current situation and projections for the future are certainly not ideal and are certainly not as favourable as they would like to be, not for the optimistic outlook of people in the future, but also for the public financial system, which deals directly or indirectly with the problem of demographics, is financed both by health bills, pension bills, cash markets and by the country's integrated budget. However, our view is that the situation is not alarming, as was stated in the very title of the proposal on the problem of demographics for our country, and we cannot talk about the failure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. Of course, we would like to see social policy measures, employment policies, including family policies and housing policies more stimulating, more efficient and better results than they do. Oh, yeah. One of the points in the discussion at the home work body was the White Paper on Pensions or on the Pension System as such. This document is ready, the light of the world has seen it a few months ago, and it contains many things. I'm not going to say that it writes anything, but a lot of solutions are indicated here, a lot of proposals are very precisely defined, and many people are bound to age, or it's a red thread, a Phil Rouge, which means raising their retirement age and also raising their insurance age. In Desus, I have to say this one more time, but we do not simply reject anything, but at the same time we do not hold on to anything as critical as the last plant. This is also the case in the White Paper on the amendment of pension legislation. Let me stop at the point of rising retirement age. We also do not reject these things, but of course we are very careful. Just to say that we're going to raise the age, that people will have to work after the defolk until the 67th, 68th, or even longer, of course, it's not going to work out, and it's not going to work out just like that. Of course, we do not want to artificially or administratively retire people, force them into peace, but allow them, if it is their will, their desire, and above all their ability to remain as active as possible, to stay as long as possible in the employment system. However, there are difficulties in hiring or maintaining an older generation in the employment system. The inclusion of older than 50 years in the labour market is relatively low in our country, to which the labour environment often contributes, if we are critical, not sufficiently adapted to older individuals and has a poor impact on their health. Many research at European level shows that older workers in Slovenia, i.e. in Slovenia, have significantly worse or worse working conditions than their colleagues or generations of colleagues from other countries of the European Union. Thus, our older workers report or complain that their work has a negative impact on their health, that they are much more often discriminated against in the workplace, that they are more likely to report intimidation and harassment, that is to say, on the job, that they have poorer opportunities to harmonise their professional and family life, that is, on a personal basis, and that they are therefore less satisfied with their working conditions. Low working activities among older people are also affected by underdeveloped management of different age groups in companies, not adapting working conditions and jobs to older generations, older workers, and active employment policies and education policies that do not sufficiently promote – I stress, to a sufficient extent – lifelong learning of older people and do not provide them with adequate skills. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we believe or believe that adapting the working environment to older people should be a priority in design – here I will not talk about pension reform – a change in pension legislation, and, of course, in addition to the measures taken by the State, employers should be fully engaged, and in particular to change the general social perception of older people in the labour market. So we need to change our minds somehow. The wisdom and experience of the elderly on the one hand, the innovation of modern skills management, and the inspiration and new knowledge of young people must be integrated into a synergistic mix and used in this combination, as it will certainly produce positive results in each individual economic company, in each company and, of course, positive for the economy as a whole. Here I am talking about the real sector, about the economy, and I could certainly also talk about the public sector, because there are certainly many problems in the public sector as well. Many times in recent times, we have heard too often the systematic, eccentric exploitation of workers, especially foreign ones, and these things are highly exposed to the media and are more than exceptional in nature. With regard to employers and pensions, I would like to remind you once again how much employers contribute to pension and disability care or safety and how many employees contribute to them. You do know that we are here to escape, because in the European Union employers pay much more than workers and our contributions are paid back. In the Desus Group, we also agree that all the so-called modern forms of employment, which are of a peremptory nature, are not a good traveller and are not the right path for an individual, because they do not offer employment, social and economic security, nor for the financial situation of all four cash registers and are certainly not successful for individual companies or economic operators in the long term. How can we increase our fertility if even our existence cannot be cared for because we do not have decent, secure, long - term employment? I think that there is a need for cooperation in different areas, different policies, not just a matter of one policy. Cooperation in the field of family law, family policy, social policy, employment policies was needed and could be listed. Only when we get together and put all of this together into one integrated set will we be able to talk about the country's successful policy as a whole. Allow me to stay with the pension system for a moment. Here I cannot pass, as has been repeatedly exposed, the problem of the low pensions of our pensioners and pensioners. Decent pensions — not minimum, decent pensions — must not only be an alpha and an omega of the following changes in pension legislation, but we must make sure that pensions do not end at the last place when it comes to minimum coordination when it comes to the payment of minimum regressions, while such or otherwise justified or unjustifiable requirements of individual target groups in that country, which can be favoured after the defolk, do not refer to takouns and to the release of money into the tax haven. It is very difficult for us in the Desus Group to expect and count the days when we will be familiar with that agenda, with those measures and proposals for legislative solutions that will allow the reform of the health system, the abolition of waiting periods and a decent health policy for each individual and individual. In the end, let me really touch long - term supplies for a sentence or two. In Desus we understand it as an integral, integrated, if you want, concept of both social and health policy, where it is of course a source of funding and the regulation of human resources. It must also become a long - term provision or application of the law on long - term care of our primary objective. After 20 years or more of this talk, we must adopt such a law in the interest of all those who need such services. Only then will we be able to talk about a friendly and social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, all well hailed! In their request today's extraordinary meeting, today's speakers at some points correctly summed up the situation and pointed out the traps of changing demographic trends, which we are all very well aware of, but according to our assessment, the words on the alarming state and the non-response of the country are superfluous. Of course, the demographic picture is not optimal. We all agree that we could be better. Long-term society cannot be balanced at the same time as low fertility. The fact that the government is doing nothing to increase fertility and strengthen family life is not true. Social and family policies are not just social transfer policies. Social policy is a set of sectoral policies requiring agreement on the basis of dialogue and consensus. If we are to reverse these negative demographic trends, we will have to act in an integrated manner. Individual measures will not be sufficient to convince young people that their future is safe, that it is safe to create a family and that more than one child will not make their situation worse. Research has shown that the desire to maintain the standard of living achieved is a very important consideration in decision-making for children, so there is no doubt that families need to be burdened financially if they want to have more children. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities in this field already have the results of work. Let me remind you that the measures taken by this government and this ministry have been reducing unemployment for a long time. We abolish property records up to €120,000 and a refund for recipients of cash social assistance and a security allowance. We have taken proven effective measures for the employment of young people, as well as measures to prolong the work of older people. All these changes to social legislation are aimed at improving the situation of families, especially single parents and large families. The minimum income was raised, we added new scholarships, we released additional classes of the child supplement and raised the allowance for the child in the single parent family. We have changed the consideration of the allowance for these families in the measurement of rights from public funds and also the way in which the child allowance is taken into account. With the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act, we have increased the equal role of women and men in families, especially in caring for children. Until now, unpaid paternity leave has gradually been transformed into an additional 15 days paid leave. The right to work with reduced working hours in the case of two children has also been extended, instead of the previous 6 years until the end of the first grade of primary school. Despite fiscal constraints, we have provided a total of more than €33 million of additional resources to improve the situation of families. However, if you think that the obstruction or denial of the constitutional right to free family planning of the Slovenian population will launch the Slovenian population by the number of the population up the ladder, you are wrong. After all the events in recent months, there is no way to shake the feeling that hidden intentions with an ideological omen appear in this matter. The senior composition of the population of Slovenia shows a picture faced by almost all developed countries. In the coming decades, the proportion of the elderly who will retire will increase rapidly. Generations that follow and the funds they pay out of their insurance are therefore less than their needs. Social Democrats are convinced that social and intergenerational solidarity is the basis for a decent life for people and that there are no alternatives to a well-established pension system based on a pension as a right from work and intergenerational solidarity. Since we are also the Social Democrats, not only the proponents, concerned about the demographic situation and trends and the threat to the pension system due to the disruption of the established number ratios between the working and retired population, and because we are aware that without long-term measures, the ability of the State to provide the obligations set out in Article 2 of the Constitution of Slovenia can be seriously compromised, we have opened a public debate at our last conference entitled The Safe Future of All Generations on a demographic fund that will ensure the long-term stability of the pension system. In view of the growing gap between the accrued contributions to pension insurance and the needs of the pension fund, it is essential that the strengthened demographic reserve fund be set up quickly as the accumulated funds and its benefits will therefore be increased in the future. The demographic reserve fund is the most important but not the only measure to alleviate the deficit and strengthen people's confidence in the solidarity pension system. However, the establishment of a reserve fund must not be an excuse for the non-replacement of the pension system in the future. Its purpose is to try to defuse the pension system financially. In addition to what has already been mentioned, rapid growth in the number of people over 65 or over the age of 80 in the Republic of Slovenia has also made rapid and comprehensive arrangements for a long-term care system necessary. We have been stressing over and over again that the creation of a long-term care system that will ensure everyone's quality of life must be a priority. It should be borne in mind that such a law must cover more areas, such as the regulation or termination of supplementary health insurance and the correction of the tax system. The starting point of the new law, in our view, should be to conclude that there is a need for long-term care for the new social risk to be secured by introducing a new form of compulsory insurance, similar to that already covered by the entire population in case of disease or injury, disability, unemployment and other social risks. An important objective to be pursued by the proposal for a law is to increase and ensure stable sources of funding. The Government considers that such a risk is most likely to be covered by the introduction of a new form of compulsory public insurance or by a combination of public and private insurance based on intergenerational and intra-generational solidarity. For Social Democrats, a system based on solidarity, reciprocity and justice is one of the foundations of the social state. For the quality life of all people, the key goods that must be protected as public goods and accessible to all are essential. It is the duty of the State to create equality of opportunity for all. Social security is therefore understood as an active aid to the public system in ensuring quality and human dignity in which safe childhood, safe active age and safe age will be ensured. We believe that we will succeed in adopting coordinated policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u31	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Before I go to the position of the United Left Group, let me say that I just read the news on the RTV MMC portal two hours ago, the address of which was "Poverty in Slovenia more and more among employees". This is the situation brought to us by today's motioners, pardon, their policies. At the same time, they are the same policies shared by the current coalition and ultimately implemented. In these circumstances or in these parameters, debate on demography is actually a beating of empty straw. If you want to have a greater kinship between Slovenian families, make sure that there is no poverty among them. Make sure that young people receive quality jobs so that they can get to their homes and so on. Then the problem of demographics will be solved on its own. Nevertheless, it is no coincidence that demography is a popular topic of neoliberal governments and customers. Because population ageing is used as a chronic argument to privatise social, health and pension insurance. For our citizens, however, it is more important than what the structure of the population will be in 2060, the question of what social system we will live in at that time. The fact that there are no more inactive people in society is not new from the historical perspective and is, after all, nothing special. All that is new is that the inactive population was sometimes children and adolescents, but today it is especially older. Ageing is not a problem in itself; the problem becomes only within the framework of capitalist regulation. Capitalist regulation, despite exceptional technological progress and increasing productivity, is not capable of ensuring a decent life for all employees, whether unemployed or retired, which capital sees as something that is superfluous. This is not something that would apply only to the third world and to developing countries, so it is also in the most developed countries of the centre. This is even more felt in semi-peripheral countries such as Slovenia. This is shown not only by statistics on poverty, but also by the increasing emigration of citizens, particularly young people seeking their bread abroad. Therefore, we are not dealing with how old our people will be in 2060, but we are trying to live in a just, rational society at that time, and we are working briefly to eliminate capitalism. Hereafter, I will define myself to the specific socio-economic problems that our people face here and now. Let me start with the incomes of the pension and health allowance. The United Left's position is that before any increase in retirement and insurance age, employers' contributions to pension insurance should be increased. At the same time, this measure is the simplest measure. The next step is to introduce a progressive contribution rate, roughly as we know it in income. In this way, those with higher incomes would contribute relatively more. However, the third step is, of course, to extend these contributions from wages to income arising from wealth and capital. We therefore demand that the principle of vertical justice be applied to pension and health insurance. Those with higher incomes must pay their contributions at a higher rate. It is crystal clear that these are measures that go towards social justice and equality, and therefore are opposed by capitalists and large-income groups. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Slovenian political class has been doing exactly the opposite of what should be done for the sustainability of the social registers all the time. In 1996, he reduced employers' contributions, resulting in a loss of 12 billion income until 2014 alone. A small part of this failure was replaced by a tax on paid wages, which was completely abolished by the government of SDS, NSI and Desus — yes, including Desusa. In short, the proponents who have undermined the sustainability of the pension system in the past are now telling us how to correct this sustainability. Moreover, they are also aspiring to further poverty in public treasury. For example, New Slovenia has proposed and the SDS has supported the amendment of the Social Security Contributions Act, which introduces the Social Cap. If this law had been adopted, the Treasury would have lost EUR 638 million at the expense of the Ministry of Finance and EUR 339 million per year. As we know, the applicants also advocate the commercialisation of compulsory health insurance. The idea is to extend supplementary insurance to contractual compulsory insurance. Of course, it would be the result of the fact that health systems, instead of the current EUR 60 million, as long as they remain in commercial insurance companies, would lose even more for treatment. It is only on this basis that it is clear that the applicants are doing their best to make the public insurance system even more impoverished and thus make room for the profits of commercial insurance companies. We can also follow the exact same pattern in family policy. Family policy measures shall be financed from the integrated budget and the budget of the municipalities. The main revenue of the municipalities is income, so those who advocate the social rights of children and families are, of course, demanding that higher income people pay more income. But of course there are no candidates for today's session. I will not go into repeating the known facts that it is through Bayuk's reform that capital income is exempt from fair taxation and reduced the taxation of the highest wages from 50 per cent to 41 per cent. I will only draw attention to the fact that Nova Slovenija has already invested and the SDS has supported the amendment of the Income Act. With a change in the general allowance, a worker with a minimum wage would gain €6.4 per month and a Director with a salary of €10,000 per month. The revenue of the State and the municipalities would be reduced by up to EUR 470 million after the calculation of the Ministry of Finance. To illustrate, we collect less than €2 billion per year in income. The funds are already too small for decent social assistance, for protective, child, parental and disability allowances. Tell me what kind of family policy we'd be implementing if we gave up another quarter of this funding. This is, of course, a question for current applicants, but we already know their answer. They argue that this loss would be compensated by an increase in the number of jobs. Of course, there is no basis for that. The theory of learning and practice has shown quite well that the reduction of capital taxes does not have a major impact on economic activity and these effects are also short-term. In order to replace the deduction of one quarter of the income, the number of employees should be increased by at least 200,000. I don't have to put too much emphasis on the absurdity of this number. In addition to hiring all 95,000 unemployed, we should add 105 thousand pensioners, which is, of course, science fiction. I therefore reiterate that the only real impact of such neoliberal proposals would be the drop in a quarter of the income and a substantial increase in the highest wages. That we are right – what NSI only proposes is actually being implemented by the current government. As a result of two changes in the income scale in this mandate, 10% of the best paid next year will have €80 million higher income and, of course, the citizens will have 80 million less public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u33	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much. It's a shame for a man to discuss such a debate, but I'll do my best. Dear President, Mr Secretary of State, Secretary! In New Slovenia, we are again proposing a debate on demographic trends and measures needed to respond accordingly. Demographic policy in Slovenia is a very pressing problem that we must take very seriously. We should all be aware of this, not wasting populism, for populism and demagogicism in this area have already cost us too much. We can go along a path that we can see in Latin America or Cuba, or we can go another way. The European Commission also reminds us that demographic policy is a problem in Slovenia. So it's a serious matter. By deciding and taking responsibility for changes in this area, Slovenia has already missed a great deal of time and we are taking too little steps to normalise this area. However, I agree that this is not only a problem of Slovenia. Demographics or demographic indicators are a problem across the European Union, as well as across Europe. Since this problem is so complex, in Novi Slovenija we have convened a joint meeting of three committees a year ago, where after many procedural complications we have managed to hold a debate after all. Why did Nova Slovenija propose this meeting today? Low birth rates in Slovenia and consequently population ageing are increasingly reflected in the economic imbalances in our country. The age of the population is increasing, which is positive and also good, and on the other hand this brings higher costs of public spending and the burden of the pension system. We know that a pension reform has been adopted in 2013, but we already need to invest more than a billion euros in the pension fund from the state budget, and we need to invest more than 1.5 billion euros a year last year. Therefore, it is more than necessary to think about a changed pension system or reform. Why? Let's see. In 2025 more than 20% of the European population will be over 65 years old, including in Slovenia, and the number of people over 80 will also increase. What does that mean? We know that for 90 years now the age of the Slovenian population is not so rare, which is good for the country and its subsystems, and it also brings some problems. For we have been saying for a long time that we need a law on long - term care. Every time we visit different homes for the elderly, we are asked what we will do, when we will adopt this law. That is why we would like to hear from the Ministry for once how far we are in the preparation of this law. Let us return to 2025, when more than 20% of the European population will be over 65. Where else are we gonna get the money for these pensions? Where else are we gonna get the money for the medical checkout? On the other hand, there are not enough young people; there are not enough working people to maintain this situation. At the same time, there is also important information that there are increasing numbers of young people trained to be good people going abroad. This is a serious problem for next year. If I continue with my family, because we also know that the family is changing as such, that more women are employed, that there is an increasing divorce, which also means that there are certain additional problems in age, that they do not now live as often as three generations together, as it has been in the past, which has also facilitated care or care for the elderly. People's needs are also changing. We are increasingly demanding in our needs even during our growing old age. But many people in the family list various factors why young people do not choose to have more children. Here it is a different way of life for young people and different predispositions, such as twenty, thirty, forty or fifty years ago. The system or society forces one difference. We are in an inappropriately different position than we were in the past. The next problem is the health system. Also due to all demographic trends, the health system will soon no longer be sustainable, and we all want it to be publicly sustainable to allow the safety of Slovenian citizens and to make health services accessible, timely and quality to all. That is why we also need as soon as possible a reform of the health system. What can the state actually do about demographic policy? Firstly, demographic policy must be a family-friendly policy. That's the best the country can do. We know, however, that we currently have a lot of unemployed, especially young people, that scholarships are not at an ardent level, that housing policy for young people is very problematic, that many young people are moving out and that we do not have adequate education for the needs of the ageing population in the future. Let me go back to health care right now and repeat that a large portion of the money is being spent in health bills. More than €1 billion is leaking into the health register. For now, these are the needs. As the population grows older, these needs increase. On the other hand, less and less money. Same, same system, same way as with pensions. We need to get an answer to this key question very quickly. How are we going to fill our medical checkouts, given that the payers are getting smaller and smaller? If I move on. In the introduction, colleague Iva Dimic has well broken down the problems of underbirth and health-retirement reform, and I will highlight the need for changes in education as well. The Slovenian education system has created a multitude of young people with high education, but unfortunately not enough practical experience. When young people get out of the education system today and get a job, employers are just starting to train them so that they can carry out their work processes on their own. We therefore need to introduce a dual symmetem in vocational education, where young people would go to school for six months and we would train at work for the second half of the year. Only in this way will the school system raise young people who will be useful to the economy immediately after schooling. However, a dual system must be made interesting, especially for employers. A few hours of practical work per week is totally useless for employers. If the employer wants to organise an efficient work process, it does not help him to have apprentices available only two days a week. Effective benchmarking and simultaneous benefit, both for young people and employers, are possible only in the case of longer-term work. With all the problems, let me put forward the unnecessary ideological conflict in education between private schools, public schools and so on. I have not highlighted myself in this area, but this time I will take this opportunity because I really do not understand those who claim that five private primary schools can endanger 458 public primary schools. I submit that we must eliminate this discrimination as soon as possible when it comes to the payment of the private school programme which implements the public programme. We just have to ensure equal pay for equal work. I see no problem here, as infrastructure costs are and will remain the burden of the owner of the private school mentioned or concerned. The Slovenian school system must also change in this area. From quantity, this is a memory of the number of unused data, so it must go to quality, that is to understand processes and concepts. That way we can improve our school system. I also point out the related brain drain. I mentioned this at the outset, but the data, the statistics are like this, we do not invent in New Slovenia. Official statistics show that 15 000 citizens and citizens, half of them under the age of 40, have moved from Slovenia in recent years on average. I really have a heartache with this information, when we offer these young people everything, they are allowed education, they are allowed everything that belongs to them, and then these people, because they don't see the opportunities in our country, they go away, look for opportunities elsewhere, look for a new life. We will also have to talk about brain draining in our domestic policy, because, indefinitely, the state cannot function in such a way that the best trained personnel leave the country. In doing so, I also expose the day-to-day migrants. Daily migrants are also growing, so to speak, people who only go to work in neighbouring countries. This country is losing a lot of money. Demography will have a strong impact on our labour market in the next 10 years. If we have the surplus of the unemployed now, the situation will change in the opposite direction. We will face a shortage of labour, first in the deficient professions, which we are already trying, and later in most other areas. The key question is how Slovenia will solve this deficit, how we will solve it. Okay, one solution is by immigration, we can talk about it, but also in immigration, we should finally talk about it, because we can't just say that we're going to import so much and so much labour and peak. A thorough discussion is needed, which and what workforce we need in Slovenia. The business environment in Slovenia is also unfriendly. If I only point out that Slovenia is 119th in the field of legal certainty to entrepreneurs after one of the studies, in other words, payment discipline, business fraud and the like are still a problem. We are therefore calling through a just country, through a just state for all citizens and citizens. Even compared to the countries with which we compete – this is the second statistical data – Slovenian wages are still overtaxed. In contrast to what my predecessor said, we overburden our wages. Thus, employers are overburdened. There are too many taxes and we are at the top of the European Union, not by taxes, we are talking about taxes. Thus, after contributions as well as taxes together – contributions plus taxes – we are at the summit between the countries of the European Union. Next information. A major problem is also the administration, which does not support entrepreneurs in realizing their ideas, but rather hampers them. What we are about to get into Parliament is a special law that regulates one bureaucratic obstacle to how to set up a factory somewhere. I do not understand why we need to adopt special laws because some want to open new jobs in Slovenia. We have a school system where there are more and more teachers, but more and more functionally illiterate young people. Nor does the school system follow the needs of the economy. I quote as the last statistical data. If I conclude slowly, the budgets adopted for 2017 and 2018 show very clearly that the Mira Cerar team is unfortunately not ready to change the current approach. For it is clear that in the last two years, perhaps more in a good year, this government will not do what every reasonable government should do in the first two years of rule, the next two years will be for Slovenia, it seems, unfortunately, a time of lost opportunity. Therefore, it is entirely appropriate to consider whether it would be more reasonable to replace the selector and the key players in the field. Here it is worth considering whether the President of the Government, ministers and ministers do not feel that this challenge, particularly demographics, should be one of the key challenges of the government or a key government priority. In fact, the Government feels that your only goal is to lead this government to the end of the mandate, no matter what. In view of the actions of the coalition partners in particular, there is also a lack of serious concern for the changes that Slovenia urgently needs to prepare itself for the dangers that are practically ahead of us. As far as demographics are concerned, these are very different areas, which are related to the problem of demographics, and we have certainly forgotten to highlight certain areas. But to solve such a wide-ranging problem in various areas, a coordinated action is needed, we could call it a future action, a coordinated strategy as soon as possible, because we are already late with some strategic documents, how we will improve this demographic image of Slovenia or save it in the future. If I just briefly sum up, if we don't take care of our own future, believe me, no one will do that for us, no neighbouring country, no European Union, no European Commission, no one. One of the main conclusions is simple – we need more births, more children. In Slovenia, an average of over 20,000 children are born per year and at least 30,000 new births per year would be needed for some balance in the future. Youths who make families also need more opportunities to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u35	The text is given by the non-connected Members' Group, Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Your Honor! With today's consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the alarming situation of negative demographic trends and its non-response, I believe that we will not detect hot water and discuss some new facts. All that we are going to talk about today is well known, and we have discussed this several times. The problem is that activities are somehow completed at this stage, or for solutions that run out of desire, will, and energy. In the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members myself, I will present just a few of the most important data for us. It is known that Slovenia, like most developed countries, is facing changes in the age structure of the population, so that in the future the ageing of the population we are already facing will be more intense than in other countries of the European Union. According to the European Commission's assessment, low fertility and consequently ageing represent one of the major social and economic challenges of the European future. The European Commission's recommendation made it clear to all Member States that, in view of changes in the age structure of the population, they need to adapt different systems such as health, pension and long-term care, education and the labour market. Compared to other developed countries, it is still possible to conclude that despite the 2013 pension reforms, we are still early in retirement, and there are no jobs for people in the 56-64 age group. In 2014, the European Commission adopted a number of recommendations in the framework of the European Semester for Economic Policy Coordination and recommended that Slovenia take appropriate measures to ensure the sustainability of the pension system after 2020. In this regard, it is worth noting once again that the analyses have shown that a short-term new reform is not necessary, but that the long-term pension system will have to adapt to the demographic movements of the population. The problem pointed out by the proposers of today's emergency meeting is therefore that we received some important recommendations and guidance from the European Commission already in 2014. In two years we have not yet come to action from words, although the government of Alenka Bratušek has already committed itself to the preparation of a White Paper on the Reform of Pension and Disability Insurance, which will be financially sustainable in the longer term. We are practically entering 2017, but we still do not know what our pension and disability insurance should include, what the pension age should be like, and what measures we will respond to the outcomes of health, education, public expenditure, housing and spatial policy outcomes, all in the light of changes in the demographic structure of the population. We are convinced that changes in pension insurance must take place in the light of the achievement of the broadest possible social consensus and gradually, without excessive interference with pension rights, as they are also constitutionally protected. We must therefore maintain the appropriate level of the social state and ensure that pensioners are in a position not to increase the risk of poverty. That is why the Slovenian State Holding Act 2013 on the stabilisation of pension funds and the provision of additional resources for pension payments already provided for the transformation of the capital company into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund in a manner defined by the law governing pension and disability insurance. Although the deadline for the establishment of the demographic fund was foreseen by the end of 2015, to date this has not been done. Moreover, at his hearing, the former Finance Minister, Dr. Maramor, even said that Slovenia does not need the demographic fund as envisaged. The activities resulting from the transformation of the capital company are thus in line with this statement by the former Minister, although this demographic fund is also intended to provide the appropriate level of the lowest pensions and the pensioners with sufficient security for the last lifetime. Another problem that we cannot overcome in addressing the problem of demographic trends is the fact that there are no jobs for young people in Slovenia. Young people enter the labour market relatively late, which can be attributed on the one hand to a long study period, despite the Bologna reform, and on the other hand to difficult entry into the labour market. Above all, here I am thinking of increasingly innovative ways of hiring young people, such as espouses, copyright contracts and the like. We are also still waiting for an adequate housing policy for young people, which would allow young people early autonomy and the possibility of creating their own family. Most youths still live at home, with their parents. The leased real estate market is still undeveloped and waits for better times, and today it is rare for young people who can afford to buy an apartment, arrange a home, and create a family. As a result, so many young people for their survival and a better life go to work abroad. This is also the reason why we appeal to the Government to prepare and implement as soon as possible an integrated youth strategy in which housing policy and measures for the faster and better integration of young people into the labour market must be included. So today we still have a situation where the area of temporary and occasional work of students and students is regulated within the Public Finance Balance Act, although we are already in the Alliance during the adoption of the law, that is the end of 2014, we have warned that this is an area that deserves a separate system law for young people. The area that would also deserve a broader debate, and I will mention it more today, is long-term care. The law, which would definitively regulate the area of long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance, is one of those that we have been waiting too long and which the Government has promised us since its appointment. Therefore, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we appeal again to the Government to submit the law to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u37	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u38	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, everyone else is present! Today we are considering a proposal for a recommendation whose content has been particularly current for a good year and was partly based on the debate on the Home Committee in January this year when the urgent meeting of the three committees is convened. Of course, there was also the topic of dealing with demographic issues. Slovenia is, as most developed countries today, an ageing society. If, three years ago, only 4.5% of the population over 80 years of age were affected, this share will increase to 12.3% in 2060. The question is whether the challenges facing aging society are facing us in the right way. Ageing does not just mean new opportunities for the development of individual service activities, it also presents new challenges for the labour market and migration. In this context, the Government has already adopted, as a response to demographic change, a decision in January this year to draw up, in cooperation with the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development on the basis of a demographic analysis, a strategy for a long-lived society to be adopted after the deadline next April and a decision on a resolution on family policy to be adopted by the end of 2017. We have also been informed of the timetable for these documents on this occasion on the home committee when the proposal for a recommendation is being considered. These documents are also linked to some of the applicant's other findings relating to low fertility, social and family policy, the need to regulate long-term care and the need for pension and health reform. This strategy of a long-lived society will address several of these areas. We are aware of the fact that the employment of some vulnerable groups in the labour market cannot be resolved solely by financial incentives in the form of the exemption from payment of employers' contributions. The government, in response to the question of how to improve the employability of older people in the labour market, how to encourage employers to recruit older people and adapt the working environment to older people and how to raise their level of employment, will prepare a set of measures for older people in the labour market, which will be adopted by the social partners at the end of the year. The proposal for a recommendation expresses the need for legal regulation of long-term care and personal assistance, which is also one of the coalition commitments in this mandate. In this regard, coordination between the two competent ministries shall take place. Content points are mostly assigned. At a consultation on long-term care held in the State Council in October, a wider public was also informed of the substantive backgrounds for the preparation of the Act. A set of services is coordinated, a single entry point and a single executive body is established. An agreement is also reached on the coordination of operators or integrated teams in an integrated network of operators. The proposer also draws attention to the need for pension reform in the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as well as to the need for health reform in one point of the proposal. In the Coalition Agreement, both are areas of priority as commitments. The White Paper on pensions was presented to the general public in the spring of this year, a working group with social partners involved and the task of preparing a set of measures to change the pension system after 2020 has repeatedly addressed the starting points for change in specific areas. Demographic changes will certainly determine public services and our lifestyle in the future. However, the claim that the Government does not respond to demographic trends and does not adapt to this state and to the alleged alarming state does not reflect the reality. The government proved the exact opposite with the activities it was carrying out. For this reason, we have rejected this proposal on the Home Committee in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u39	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. First of all, according to tradition, the representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Before we go to the general discussion of all fellow Members, however, I would like to respond as a proposal to some of today's words or findings. Let me first respond that I can’t imagine — here I reject all the hints — that there is a discussion in the National Assembly on Demography and about our ageing society an ideological a.k.a. demagogos's omen. Certainly not. Because if that's a demagogue sign, then it's best that we just close down the National Assembly and split up. Because we are here to work together to find solutions for a society with which we will meet in eight years that every fourth Slovenian will be over 55 years old. We have facts ahead of us. We also need to prepare solutions in the employment market that we will meet in eight years. That we'd have so many older people. Last but not least, I don't know how employers will be reshape or find employment opportunities for older people at that time. However, – just briefly – as I have been following the views of individual parliamentary parties, let me first respond to the fact that it is a great concern for young people to have a job. This is, of course, one of the main things that young people need to be provided with work so that they also need to be provided with housing. This is where we have been warning all the time, including the other committees in the National Assembly, that spending time for young people today is extremely difficult, causes enormous social insecurity, and consequently, when deciding to create a family. Here I would like to mention that the laxative work of young people and the violence in espa also causes the loss of work and the escape of young brains abroad. We need to be aware of that. That's why these sessions you mentioned were our second in the year. Of course, since we are already at the end of the year, the next year will not be possible, but it will be the third at the beginning of next year. I can tell you that now. Why? Because we haven't agreed on anything this year about how we're going to work things out together in the field of demographics. I do not see here that the resolution of demographics is simply the rescue of one political party or coalition. I think we're all committed here to find solutions together. But that's what needs to be heard. You said that it would also be necessary to go to the labour market with regard to the employment of the elderly. Sure. Here I would like to mention how we may not hear or differ in some way. When we adopted a law in this National Assembly when we wanted to have older people who retire, to be able to carry on their activities and to pay all contributions to the pension and health allowance, this was said not in this National Assembly. Then you say, colleagues and colleagues, you need to look for solutions for the elderly. Of course you have to look for them, but these solutions must be in some way give-give solutions, because if it's just ladies, I don't know which older person would say when he's reached all the conditions for retirement, but he'll still try to do something out of some charity. I think that the rejection, as we have suggested, of allowing them to continue their espionage or to continue their activities and that, therefore, they are paying all their contributions is simply unreasonable. Also, many of the entrepreneurs we meet have been closed down. It would be interesting to see statistics on the situation of the elderly. When we asked ourselves, or when I wanted to get more detailed information, I simply received the answer that it was difficult to examine. I don't know, maybe it's not for the public to see how it is. It was said that the demographic fund would solve all matters in this country. How I wish this demographic fund had been made when our Minister was still a secretary of state, i.e. before 2010, 2011. Back then, all the indicators showed how much society would be, i.e. in the long term, unsustainable, but we have not yet reached this demographic fund. It's also with long-term care for personal assistants. That's right, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a minister who has literally been a minister for four years, and before that, she has been a secretary of state for two or three years, and we do not yet have a law on long-term care, which is a real necessity, and, last but not least, the European Commission has already warned us that we need to change things in this area. I would also like to point out, or touch, the statements that things are not as alarming as they have been said today and, as I have understood, that demographics will be for quite some time and that we will prepare ourselves for this. I don't know if we have any time. As I said, we have eight years before we face the first major change in the future. I am sorry that colleague Kordish always comes, says, but then goes, so we simply cannot open a dialogue to discuss what he imagines to be under some ideology and what he imagines we want to change this society as the proponents. Of course, we want to turn it into a better, fairer society, for all the same, not a two-rate society as we now have. I am sad that it is only today that he has observed that we have poor employees in the country, which we are talking about practically all the reports we have received in the last year and a half in the National Assembly. The Ombudsman's report also points out that we have poor employees in this country. It is only today that he has read through an online portal that we have poor employees in this country. How can we then open up dialogues in this country and in this society if someone simply doesn't hear you or doesn't want to hear you, whatever you say, and then it's just demagogic for him. The need to change certain matters is also noted by the UMAR. I am pleased that such a government authority, if I may say so, recalls the necessary changes, which shows that, of course, all governments that are supposed to rule this country must commit themselves to this. This government has also committed itself to developing a strategy for long-term society, a resolution on family policy and a migration strategy related to the development of the labour market. I am sorry that the parties to the coalition have not supported our proposals, because the deadlines that the Ministry alone or the coalition itself is committed to preparing a strategy for long-lived society and the rest by the end of March are simply not acceptable. We have said that this deadline should be until 1 June 2017, and we really want these matters to be brought to the National Assembly so that they can be discussed. They're supposed to be talking about the white book. In the spring we did get it on our tables or in our drawers, but apart from some of the public round tables we as Members have not actually met with this de facto. Each parliamentary group has transformed its territory, but I still have the feeling that things are not running out, things are not going forward. I would like to see even more broad, open-ended issues, not least on the Committee on Labour and the family, but to see what those comments are now and what a renewed White Paper with additional additions and comments from other civil society stakeholders, which, of course, was able to participate and comment. It would be nice and fair to tell you how much we wanted to improve the social situation in Novi Slovenija. We have also proposed a number of laws, such as unloading the minimum wage, where everyone with a minimum wage per month would still have 50 or more euros left in his wallet. Nor was it understood and was an unwanted measure, and then they tell us that we support some capitalists in the opposition. We want a just society that will be just and just for everyone, and again, I stress that we will not have a two-tier class here. Finally, our proposal to increase the general income relief to €7,000. This would relieve many — those with minimal incomes, including migrant workers, who have to find work in foreign countries because of social distress. We were simply not heard at this step in Novi Slovenije. We therefore point out that something needs to be done in the area of demographics, jobs and young people. We are active throughout the year and are taking initiatives, legislative proposals in this direction, so that one part of the demographics will start to improve to start doing what we are set up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dimic. It's a word I've got. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The debate on demographic trends and the impact of these trends on the future development of Slovenia is undoubtedly very difficult, interesting and necessary. The way society and politics respond to the challenges ahead will depend on what future common life will be like in our country. The policy field is to direct society with the help of a country based on values, usually authorities that can be oriented towards solidarity, equality, democracy and efforts to improve the lives of all the people of one country, but can dominate neoliberal values, i.e. private interests, individualism and egoism. In the latter case, aggressive and ruthless at the expense of other people and such, very neoliberal, is today's Slovenia. It is quite contrary to the expectations and values of the population if I sum up the results of the recent survey on the values of the Slovenians, which was also transferred to our group by Dr Niko Toš. Most rulings, however, show solidarity values just before the elections. Various proposals for regulating social areas, social, housing issues, migration policies, poverty eradication, labour market regulation, economies, agriculture, environmental protection, defence, health, education, culture, sport, foreign policy and the like are emerging due to the different values of the law's proponents. Thus, a political option such as DeSUS, which seeks solidarity, equality and democracy, can see a long-lived society as an opportunity to transfer experience, knowledge and wisdom to the younger generation. Intergenerational solidarity offers new employment opportunities for young people in the home and in the care of the elderly. New challenges are emerging in the area of labour market regulation and health care, with the help of improving working conditions, ensuring human interpersonal relations, a healthy working and living environment and improving the quality and accessibility of the health system, to extend the healthy years of human life and to enhance intergenerational cooperation among people. The challenge is also the proper organisation of a long-lived society, the organisation of the social and health system and the proper regulation of the pension system, in terms of decent pensions, which should enable everyone who can no longer work to live a decent life. Practice shows that public non-profit health and social systems are cheaper than privatised and commercialised systems. In the event of commercialisation and privatisation of public services, the costs of health services, social services and education are becoming high and less profitable and difficult for the poor. The latter also leads to the spread of society, poverty and social exclusion. Unfortunately, Slovenia has developed into an unhealthy and non-solid society. We are a country where the government will quickly see to it that the wages paid best in the country are raised. During the negotiations with Fides, we have witnessed the great empathy of some of the best-paid public officials, and they are not moved by older people, where two people have to live with a pension of 600 euros, while ZPIZ has torn more than 55 euros from their pension for supplementary health insurance. This is exactly the case I met in my office on Monday. The eradication of poverty, which is further exacerbated by the costs of supplementary health insurance, is an anomaly which should be addressed immediately by the President of the Government and the Minister of Health. Of course, not by replacing it with compulsory contractual insurance, which is a wet dream of even greater private insurance profits, but by extending the rights of compulsory health insurance to those rights that people need. Health funding should be fairer as Slovenia is currently leaving among highly developed countries after the unfair financing of its healthcare system. Only the neoliberal eye sees older generations as a burden and a threat to other generations, and young generations as a cheap labour force, which needs to be used as best as possible for private profit interests. The rise in poverty in the country, especially among the elderly, and the rise in the share of socially excluded people, indicate that the authorities have turned our society from formerly very solidarity to less solidarity. Of course, young people find it difficult to decide for children in a society that is not sufficiently solidarityable and that lacks decent working conditions and adequate family and housing policies. The problem of the future of our country is therefore more the issue of the values of the authorities elected by the people and less the problem of the participation of older people, as it is not difficult in a solidarity society to care for the most vulnerable and not for the legitimate needs of the younger generation. In the future, productivity should no longer depend on the number of people employed, but rather on the technological development of society. What the future of the citizens will certainly depend also on the quality and accessibility of the health system, so allow me to evaluate the signed agreement signed yesterday by the Minister of Health with Fides as a black day for the population of Slovenia. Fides received assurances about the adoption of standards and standards from the Blue Book of Standards and Norms of Doctors and Dentists, which will significantly increase the salaries of doctors and will run out of money for patients and for the elimination of waiting types. Instead of ensuring better quality of treatment and the employment of new doctors, the Minister of Health and the President of the Government decided to increase wages enormously for the best paid public servants and to allow them to continue to be blackmailed by the State, as they were expected to be fully in the hands of doctors in the future. Payments to best paid doctors are further increased to the 65th pay grade and additional awards are to be shared by doctors in tertiary activities. Additional increases in the income of doctors will, of course, be even higher due to agreed higher payments under business contracts and higher payments for uninterrupted health care. While doctors will be able to refuse work and patients in the future, thereby endangering the health and life of patients, they would be allowed to work elsewhere without the consent of the employer of the public service, even though it is precisely because of the earning of doctors in other public and private health employers that there are already many medical abnormalities. The agreement is not in the interest of better healthcare and is not in the interest of patients, nor is it in the interest of the stability of the country, since the agreement opens a front with all other public officials and threatens the stability of public finances. It is also true that pensioners who, in addition to young people, have paid the economic and social crisis caused by the financial elites, have demanded that pensions be raised to the level that they would have achieved if there were no past freezes. It is right to require the legalisation of a decent minimum pension and for employees of decent wages. It is high time that a gradual increase in the ratio between the average pension and the average wage is required, from the current 55.4% to 70%, which is recommended by the OECD, because the White Paper foresees a further decline in this ratio. However, I do not expect from the Minister of Health a self-service set of legal versions that he predicts, but a law that will meet the challenges of the future. We need a fair, quality and accessible public health system. The government has yet to respond to the challenges of the future, but today we have heard many good suggestions on how to better manage life in our society. Of course, it does not claim that the demographic fund could solve all the problems caused by long-lived society. The content of the proposed recommendations of the document, which we are considering today, has also been examined by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which has pointed out a number of shortcomings in the proposal, and we have therefore not supported the proposals made by Desus on the home committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u43	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Dr. László Göncz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have heard a lot in the views of the members of the groups. My colleague also talked a lot before me, including about the health sector, which is actually part of this set of ours. Otherwise, I will not touch much of this, but we must be aware that Slovenia, like all other European countries, is facing an extension of life. The extension of life expectancy is a result of significant progress in the field of economy, social and health care, which is why people can hope more rightly than ever before and also expect a more comfortable and safer life. The changed age structure of the population is expected to also have an impact on the increase in so-called public expenditure for the financing of pensions, health care and also long-term care, which raises a number of questions as to how to maintain or maintain the social protection system resulting from the Constitution and also co-existence between generations. I therefore believe that a demographic fund must be set up immediately, at least in the coming years, to compensate for the loss of income for pensions. Why do I think so? On the one hand, we can say that the birth of children is falling. Since 1992, Slovenia has been facing a decline in birth rates. Why is that? Young families decide late for their first child, often deciding only for one child because they live in very uncertain times. Young girls are increasingly deciding on the professions they offer or offer careers, so they are planning families very carefully. Young families also attach great importance to or concern about the future of their children. On the other hand, we have an increasing number of older ones who undoubtedly make a big contribution to society when they care for our grandchildren, when they transfer their knowledge to younger ones and thus maintain the solidarity system in our society. We therefore need to provide the elderly with the necessary services to stay as long as possible and live independently in the home environment. However, when this accommodation is no longer possible and fully appropriate, we need to provide them with quality, professional care at their home or institutional care. At the same time, we are witnessing an increase in the need for long-term care, which is a form of care that is provided to someone who needs help in everyday life activities, perhaps because of accidents, diseases, chronic diseases or only high age, and therefore Slovenia must also be confronted with the establishment of a long-term care system. We urgently need to do everything we can to establish an area of long-term care, including a sustainable system of financing and shifting from institutional care to home care. As I mentioned, of course, the vast majority of the elderly want to stay in their home environment, even in their old age. Homes for the elderly are not only of material and economic value, but of strong emotional value because it gives them and represents a space full of memories. As a result, many do not want to be institutionalized, for they want to live to the death in their home, for which for many years they have renounced and lived in it. In case of disability and dependence on the help of another person, the vast majority of the elderly want home care. It is therefore necessary to develop new forms of care at home. The country and local communities are already providing assistance at home, which, of course, alleviates the plight of these elderly. If I withdraw, we are talking about a new social risk today, as the number of older people is increasing, and the number of people who depend on foreign aid is also at risk of their health, well-being, autonomy and social inclusion without affordable and quality long-term care. On the other hand, a family that has traditionally been responsible for the care of its family members is no longer able to do so successfully and fully. Long-term care is a form of care that is provided to a person and therefore requires the assistance of a third party in carrying out daily life activities. First, it represents any long-term care provided, for example in institutions such as nursing homes, nursing homes, and second, it offers professional staff at home, and the patronage is included. Of course, home care or home care is provided by unpaid contractors, such as family members, friends, and acquaintances who help the disabled to spend their time at home as well as possible. Many times, however, family care is also a heavy financial burden, since caregivers are forced to reduce their workers, and in the extreme case, they are forced to leave their jobs, and such families may be forced to lose their jobs or to give up their jobs. After all, such families are also socially excluded, in good faith to help their loved ones who have cared for them for all their long lives. Yet, because of their emotional connections and their responsibilities, they are willing to take responsibility for the care of disabled family members. Without informal care, the system would collapse, as public treasury could in no way cover the work and costs of total supply for such large groups of the population. It is the duty of the State and their property to help people do so. In doing so, it is also of great importance that only with specific care for the disabled, the sick and the elderly in man can it develop and also strengthen intergenerational solidarity. In particular, in older people, the inclusion in these intergenerational activities reduces metabolism-related problems, improves their feelings, reduces their thinking about the meaning of everyday life. We can add another key component to this to reduce loneliness. Probably none of us want to spend our lives alone, far away, on the edge of society, so in this place, and now we must realize that the decisions and measures we are taking today in the area of long-term care and also the demographic fund, we are finally taking for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u45	Representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Only two short responses. In fact, I would respond to my colleague, Mrs Juliano Bizjak Mlakar, who said why they did not support our recommendations, which are actually going in the direction of preparing a long-lived society strategy, a resolution on family policy and a migration strategy in connection with the development of the labour market. The lady said that because the Law-Legal Service had said that this was not in accordance with the powers of the Parliament and so on. Let me say that before the hearing, we have tabled amendments that have eliminated all these inconsistencies, so that this is not the reason that Desus or the representatives of Desus on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Disabled Persons and Equal Opportunities have not supported recommendations that are actually going towards moving demographic issues in Slovenia to start working. Perhaps just another brief response to the Secretary of State, who said about the White Paper on pensions that a broader social debate was needed, exceeding the mandate of one reference or one government. If I'm a little mean, I can say that's true, because we started talking about it when you've been on the government for almost two years, so probably time is running out. But Mr Secretary of State, you know that the pension reform was implemented in 2012, through intensive negotiations, so we have come up with some reform possible in a good year. Perhaps you will complement me and tell me when you started the negotiations, so that we will also better follow how far that pension reform is if it really goes beyond the mandate of one government. But if this goes beyond the mandate of one government, then, as in the past, we leave certain things to the future or to the next governments, because we are now providing only political stability and nothing else, and we are not even interested in the welfare of the people or in the next eight years, when we first face serious demographic challenges. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u47	The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr. Peter Pogačar Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Member Dimic, I may have been a little misunderstood. The purpose of the White Paper is precisely to provide long-term answers to questions about the pension system in this country, the long-term pension system — after 2040 and 2050 — ensuring decent pensions and, of course, public financial sustainability. Therefore, the White Paper on pensions is prepared as an expert document that needs to be reached with the broadest social consensus. For the worst thing that can happen in the pension system is that every four years the rules begin to be rewritten. That is precisely the purpose of the White Paper, which is to achieve the broadest possible social consensus on which our pension system will be based. At intergenerational solidarity on the first pillar? I absolutely hope so. What will be the role of this first pillar? What will be the role of the second pillar? Fortunately, compared to the past, today we have this privilege, so that, over the long term, we can relatively accurately calculate both the impact on the individual's pension levels and the macroeconomic effects of individual pension reform. This is certainly the aim of the White Paper on pensions, that is to achieve the broadest possible social consensus, because the worst thing to trust in the system is to give a chance to radically change the content of the pension system itself every four years. That was the purpose of my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u49	The word has Mr Jernej Vrtovec, to prepare Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u50	Thank you very much. To be consistent, three fundamental principles must be respected in this debate. If we are to regulate our demographic indicators, reverse the trend, it is essential that we take the lead in improving the business environment. So for the first time, a strong economy. Second, a safe life. Thirdly, a just country for all citizens. I'm going to stop at first, it's a positive business environment, a strong economy. Politics has to give a message that it pays people to work. Do we understand each other? To make people work. I have young families coming to me who have just solved the housing problem by building houses. There are more and more families in the Vipavska Valley from which I come, and I am very happy about it. But I would like to highlight one example. On the one hand, these families are better standing than the others, which we might say we know, but the problem is that on the other hand they have this injustice again. When they hire loans – they're creditable, thank God – then they don't get baby supplements because they have so much property on the other hand. They have no other opportunity, but in the end they are literally poor. We need to give a message that people are worth doing, that they are worth making profits, that they are worth more. Low taxes, I'd like to stop here, too. I don't understand. Since we are doing so well, we have accepted a cookie so that January 2nd will be a new holiday. However, I think that people would be left with more in their wallet if they were to put the VAT rate back on that original level, which is 1.5 percentage points, as far as we have raised a few years ago, so that this VAT savings measure is released. Recalculate whether people would have more if they had one day off or if they had more left in their wallets, because they would have less in stores, and because of this they could have bought more, the money would have been better converted. There is no doubt that this second measure is better for the economy, it is said to reduce the VAT rate. Otherwise, we must accept the concept of “lower taxes, we will collect more” in this country, not the concept of higher taxes and higher burdens. I say that the improvement of the business environment is based on low taxes as well. We must finally adopt or discuss in this country those measures that will mean that entrepreneurs will be able to obtain building permits more easily and sooner, not that we will adopt a law in Parliament at this new meeting, so that a strong company will build production halls. We have such a concept of action in the country that we need new laws to create new jobs, I understand that, but not to build halls, this should be self-evident. On the other hand, we have entrepreneurs who could only expand the production halls by 10 meters and therefore have three or four employees anymore, but cannot come to Parliament to adopt such a special law and are blocked by all sides for a few years. So debirocratisation, simplification of the procedures for obtaining building permits, placement of facilities in a space where entrepreneurs can employ more people. The more employed people, the more taxes will be collected. The more taxes are collected, more pensions will be made, more money will be put into the health system, we will have a better time, more money will be spent, and more people's satisfaction will be increased. With regard to labour law – thank you, Mr Secretary of State, because you are sharing this time with us today – in the area of the adoption of labour law in two years has not been quite done. You have a new cycle ahead of you, but we expect, at least in New Slovenia, changes in legislation. I'd also like to point out a safe life. First of all, the safe health of all people and secondly, the safe age is said to ensure the stability of our pension system. Health first. We've been talking about reform for 25 years, and you're nowhere. We're in a lot of trouble. I said in the introduction that we will find it difficult to provide financial resources indefinitely, given that fewer and fewer payments are being made to our health department. But I hope to say that Slovenia is still a rich country, that people would literally die because of the poor organisation of the health system. I'm not talking about money in health, I'm talking about organization in the health system. That's not a good one. For if we have waiting types and ages that go on in years, this organization bears witness that something is seriously wrong. It is true that people die every day in the existing health system due to waiting types, regrettably, corruption, bureaucracy. Unfortunately, we have a health system where people who are familiar with the system or who have to pay extra pay for medical treatment and treatment. But with that, attention, we have excellent doctors and medical personnel, but I stress that it's a poor health system. We have proposed a concept of measures in the area of improving the health system, and we have prepared a so-called reform for public health. We propose a different way, especially funding and organisations. I say that this moment is enough money in health care, and the problem is the organization itself, and that we do not know how to get all the money into our health register. Finally, because I'm running out of time, all I want to do is focus on my family. Family, family, and family again. We need more births if the country wants to function normally in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has been prepared by Dr. László Göncz to Mr. Marijan Pojbič and mag. Tanya Zink. .
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I believe that the problems of demographics and demographic policy are, as such, the content that we need to discuss in the National Assembly, there can be no doubt about it. Our opinions may differ as to whether we are proposing concrete solutions or not, whether the National Assembly is appropriate or whether it is the task of the executive branch, but it is clear to me that this issue is being discussed. Demographic policy is practically a policy of existence in some area, in some country, in some province. I believe that this must be the first priority in practice on all issues. This is something similar when we plant a tree or design a forest, since we do it not for the next year or for a shorter time, but for a long period of time. It's similar to demographic policy. If we create a year badly, we can only expect bad consequences. But the fact is, there's been a lot of talk today. It holds that Europe, as such, is in a worse or rather different state than some other continents. However, there may have been less talk about trends still in Europe in proportion, so we cannot talk about a single policy or a single state in the field of demographics in Europe, but we can talk about a situation in the Central and Eastern European area, which is also true for Slovenia. Why am I stressing this? Because I personally believe that there will be a number of concrete solutions that we can only find in some way in cooperation with the wider Central European community, because, despite the fact that we must seek the right decisions within the country, I am confident in a number of cases that we must also try at a broader level. Above all, this diversity is also important because if we compare Scandinavian countries or some Western European countries, we just have to find that certain trends are more favourable than in the Central and Eastern European areas. So I think there is no doubt that integrated solutions are needed. Saving only pension policy or pension policy is not enough. If we are only dealing with the issue of fertility or the question of the family itself, it is not enough. Clearly, there must be very complex interlinking actions here, which can then lead to a certain result. One more look. When we talk about some solutions, we always think that we can share this budgetary cake differently than we do now. I say that we can share better or more effectively, but unfortunately I do not believe that this cake will be essential anymore. The economy even notes – I have read this even today – that simply the burden cannot be lifted. We must therefore reflect on the different distribution of all types of incentives, all kinds of policies and so on. But let us look at some specifics, whether methodological issues are very different in such matters or at least to some extent different. It's like an impact on fertility. Experts involved in this have found that the quality of the child’s upbringing benefits are much more important than the quantitative ones. I mean, it's not always about the amount of money, it's about where the incentives go. The role of the sexes is also an important issue. This has changed slightly in recent years, thank God, but we know that there are still major differences in certain parts of Europe. If there is some proper system order and family life is set on some healthy legs, then I believe that fertility can be significantly higher. This certainly has a positive effect on both women and men when deciding for a child, although these percentages are not identical. I've been looking at some data. The male desire is said to be about 2.4 per cent higher than that of female patients, where this percentage is even 0.1. So this is a picture in a slightly more favourable environment, in Scandinavian and Western countries. It's the other way around. In our space, in Central European space and also in Slovenia, this is almost the other way around. In Sweden, a few years ago, such systemic incentives were introduced that primarily encouraged families to come into the world two years after their first child or to be born to others. These are very tiny nuances, from the outside, but they are very important in the creation of such policies. If we look at one more thing, we need to find that, in Scandinavian and some Western European countries, the extensions for creating demographic policies are also much more encouraging than they are here. If we look at another criterion, for example, how many of us there will be, because I will probably not be, but those who will live in 2060, so more than 80 years old, this ratio in Scandinavian countries is much more favourable than in Slovenia and in Central European countries. If we have all this in front of us, then we must find that, in creating demographic policies, it is certainly a very important aspect to put an intergenerational agreement on another level. Unfortunately, we live in the world — and I don't want to politicize it — when we only watch until next week or by next month, whether we're going to have a budget period or not. These are questions and challenges, where this is not enough, but we need to be much wiser and much more professional. Let me finish. I am in favour of discussing this, and I am also in favour of some nuances being discussed more deeply, but the fact that the executive branches of power have to be drawn here, if in chess terms, white figures, because if the executive branches of power are poorly drawn by these white figures, then probably the demographic picture in this area will be much worse. As far as Slovenia is concerned, there are no reserves here, in no sense, because quantitative factors are undoubtedly important and decisive, so we have even less time than some other mediums and other countries. I encourage all those who are competent and competent to try to create a sustainable policy in the field of fertility, ageing, social standards and incentives. At this point, the signs do not indicate that we can lean against the seats, we are not yet in this state, but we really need to work hard to be able to expect a more favourable situation here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u53	Thank you, Dr. Gonch. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. I apologize, Mr Pojbič, the representative of the proposer has asked for the floor. Mrs. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I think it is right that I myself, as a proposalant, should say something about the family, about saving the family, about young people, about pensions. Of course, I agree with you, Mr Göncz, and with all the others that you have said cannot be tackled in a sector-specific way, that there is a need to be fully covered. But you have to start somewhere. If we start somewhere, then we can see how these things go and go down or up wherever they go. But we have to start first. Until we get started, we can't know what's gonna happen. We can only be here with the data of Umar and read what happens. I'm missing some kind of action here, some sort of activation plan that's going to work in some area. This May I listened to a presentation at the Hotel Union when Mr Vasle presented the results and said that fertility is a real problem of Slovenian society. European, but exclusively and most Slovenian societies, because if we want to alleviate the situation over the next 10 years, 2,500 more children should be born each year. Those were his words. Otherwise, if we do not follow this, about 4,500 migrants should be accepted. I'm talking about it being shown just whether or not we're going to do this. I have missed some mixture or some cross-point of both, so that we will begin to build and promote a positive attitude towards the family, to a greater number of births, and, of course, we will also have to give them the opportunity to move in to perform certain tasks, as has been the case in the past. But if we don't start working on this, it was said on the committee that such an accelerated demographic effect would only take 20, 25 years. [[…]] But we'll have it. 20, 25 years from now, we will have some kind of policy effect, which, half a century earlier, has decided that we want to make a society that will not only be long-lived but also self-sustaining. It is also important that we build on self-resistance, that we simply have a society, because we want such a society to be, in the future, even after 2050, a higher number of employees than pensioners. To do so, of course, it is also necessary to look at families. I don't support it, and even the families I'm talking to don't want to live off social transfers. Today I've heard a lot about social transfers for children and others. No, no, no. We must ensure that parents, for the first time, are able to fulfill their fatherhood, motherhood, that the working relationship, or the work process, are inclined to do so – this is also the task of finding out – and that they can survive from the work of their own hands. Things aren't in the clouds. It is necessary to look at or listen to what they want in our society. In order to reach a family, however, it is also necessary to look at what young fists are. We hear many times that we have one generation that we don't know what's going to happen. This generation will be lost to us somewhere in the whole system. I find it very difficult for anyone to get lost in the entire system. But we still have to look at why young people want to go abroad. Do our jobs give them anything to do? I'm going to talk about holiday jobs here. I must tell you that many people do not know that these are precarious jobs, employment through some contracts, copyrights or other, which also force employed professors in the public administration to have an open espa for 34% at three primary schools, one secondary school and the rest until full insurance. Is this for a professor, including a public administration, if I say so, some kind of acceptable form of employment? Not to mention young graduates at the Faculty of Sport who must be employed in five gym centres after Ljubljana or after Slovenia in the afternoon, so that they can barely collect those poor 600 euros to pay for their contributions. They're young today. Why would such a young person insist in Slovenia where he has to sign five contracts? We have to look for solutions. When we start to understand these people, why they can't make a family, why they don't have time and why the whole society doesn't even encourage them to do that, then we really need to understand why they want to go abroad. Even for safety. They also want to go abroad for security reasons, and we have said that we must ensure a just and secure country. It seems important to me that the data published in the demographic change document and their economic and social consequences, which Umar issued this May, have already had an impact on the decline in secondary and tertiary education and skills mismatches the need to strengthen the capacity of lifelong education. So we already have consequences, but we don't have any activation or action, what we're going to do first, what we're going to do to resist this, or that we're going to mitigate these things, which are already present, to the best of our ability. I'm afraid a comprehensive solution to demographic policy is unrealistic at this point. I'm really saying it's unrealistic, because if we don't trigger the cause, then we won't be able to follow anything. We have to trigger one thing first so we can do everything else. Because if we just talk and have it on paper, it will be easy for eight years or twenty-five years too quickly around and then we will have really the biggest problems in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Dimic. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, your word. Get ready, mags. Tanja Zink and Mr. Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. First of all, I think it's important that I repeat some things. I am very disappointed that the coalition on the committee overcame what we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in Novi Slovenija as recommendations to the Government. I will now read all four recommendations that the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people, will know what the coalition on the committee has rejected, so that we have virtually no vote today. This is shameful and irresponsible by the coalition. I'll read all four points. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of a document of Demographic Change and its economic and social consequences up to 1. 6. 2017 prepare an integrated response in the form of strategic documents, namely the Long-Term Society Strategy, the Family Policy Resolution and the Migration Strategy in conjunction with the development of the labour market." What is wrong with this paragraph that the coalition overrun? I'm asking you. I expect from the coalition Members the answers to these things. Second paragraph, point 2: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia," I say, "yes up to 1. 6. 2017 prepare a proposal for a law on long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance and submit it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption." That's what this government should have done a long time ago. He knows exactly what he has in the coalition contract. None of this, smooth and without any responsibility on the committee, is going to overtake this matter and vote against it. That's amazing. Look what we suggested in point three. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that up to 1. 1. 2017 presents to the public the starting point of the reform of the health system, which will include solutions for long-term sustainability of health financing and will be set up in parallel with changes in the pension system and the long-term care system." Dear Coalition Members, especially Desus and all those sitting here in the Chamber, what is wrong with you rejecting this on the Committee? What's wrong? Can anyone explain to me here, in front of the entire Slovenian public, what's wrong with that? 4th point: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continue to plan and show appropriate resources for measures to be taken in response to the demographic change document and their economic and social consequences in its consideration of budgets, including in 2019." Tell me what's wrong! Why did you vote against these recommendations? Dear colleagues, it is clear here that we have listened to the pamphlets in Parliament today. Let them look at the views of the sent groups and compare them with that, and they will see what they were saying there and what it says here. Let's see what you have in your coalition contract. How can you be so double-crossed? How can you so deceive the Slovenian people!? The fact is that all of us in the National Assembly are aware — all of us, regardless of which side someone is sitting on — that the problem is demography, and that is a major problem. Why? In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wrote: "According to the Eurostat demographic projections, Slovenia will be ahead of the EU-28 average by 2030 after the proportion of people over 65 years of age, and after 2030 it will be ahead of the EU-28 even after the proportion of people over 80 years of age. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also aware of the problems of pressure from the increasing costs associated with ageing of the population on the long-term sustainability of public finances. In this respect, in line with the constitutional commitment and the Fiscal Rule Act, the public funding planning process is gradually being strengthened. This year, the State Council adopted a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019, defining the ceilings and allowing for the deficits of the state sector and its four treasury accounts in a manner that allows for a gradual structural balance of public finances." This was written by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but this is a pamphlet. That's not true. I'll explain why this isn't the case. What does Umar say? "Dead points to the social exclusion of the elderly. The risk of poverty for older than 65 years of age is significantly higher than for the population between 18 and 65 years of age. The most vulnerable are female women, for whom the risk of poverty has increased in the last year from 35% to 40.4%. The problem is low pensions, which continue to fall. These are the main sources of income for the elderly and often do not reach the poverty risk threshold. In 2015, the average net retirement pension according to Umarje was €610, with almost half of the pensioners receiving less than €600." Thus, more than half of pensioners receive less than €600. Can you imagine what that means? Dear colleagues and colleagues and those who are wise men in Desus, who always say how you fight for your pensioners and so on, I will now read to you the following. I got this paper that I'm not going to show because you're up here with your name and it's not fair that someone won't take advantage of it, and then I can paint it. Both conditions are met – 41.5 years of working age and reached the age standard required by law. The actual pension basis for the calculation was 633,59 euros, a pension that this gentleman received for 41.5 years, and 370,65 euros. If, of course, this would apply to the contributions paid, then his pension is 370.65 euros. This document was issued to the day before yesterday, Thursday or Friday. What kind of question is now being asked? I think we should all ask each other that question. How can such an amount of pension be received at the age of 41.5 years? Something's very wrong. What's so wrong? The biggest problem is minimum wages, as we have more than 30% of all people on minimum wage. You say here that in our economy everything is oh and even great. My dears, have you all gone mad together in this national council? This is no longer normal. I'm telling you, this is no longer normal. Here we should imagine what should be done to create the conditions that people will earn normally, that they will also be normal, acceptable, and that they will eventually be so much higher. Ladies and gentlemen, why did I say earlier that what the government wrote was a pamphlet? At this point we have almost €33 billion in debt, almost a billion and €200 million in interest alone. We practically did not and did not produce such a gross social product that we could only pay the interest that we have to pay each year for the stupidities that have been done because the country was unreasonably indebted. Absolutely irrational and harmful for this country. Now, the whole GDP we have is practically paid for interest. On the other hand, you said in the budget and we got on the table that we would have 700 million euro deficits. And we don't have the salaries of public servants yet, we don't have the money that goes to doctors now, except what the government has promised to raise Group J in the public sector and improve the state and wages they absolutely deserve. They deserve it because they can't survive with that money because they don't even earn minimum wages. Catastrophe. Ladies and gentlemen, in such circumstances we cannot go to the rescue of demographics. Absolutely not. First, it is necessary to change the circumstances. What are these circumstances? One of these circumstances is that the state must put in place one strategy where it will clearly set the goal of investing in investments and creating new jobs through investments. But not new jobs with minimum wages, not with some malls that come here, get everything for free, and in the end, people don't know if they'll survive or die. Not to mention that in Maribor and our neighborhood, I know people who have spent 500 hours working hours that they cannot spend and they do not get paid, but they do not hope to tell anyone. Where's the inspection that's supposed to be behind these things? Where is he? Are all the inspectors being bribed or something that no one can see? If you look at the story of how many employees there are, where things are managed and so on, you can see just how much work has been done, how many hours have been spent and how much has been paid. You don't have to be a doctor of science. We have extremely honest entrepreneurs, whom I highly appreciate, because I know how hard they work to pay a month's wages and so on. Among them are some who allow themselves to pay a minimum wage and the rest in their pocket of money. Then it makes sense that nothing comes into the cash register. Only I don't blame as many entrepreneurs as I blame the country, because it's too expensive for entrepreneurs to hide things so they can survive from month to month and at least give people that minimum wage. This is amazing, this is embarrassing and this is wrong. This is the wrong strategy of this country. It's an absolutely wrong strategy. We will not solve any demographic problem, no pensioner will get a higher pension, no one will get a higher minimum wage if we do not invest in investment and strategically change the thinking of this society and this country, that it will no longer be socialist, and that we will be aware that it is not the state sector or the public sector that keeps this country alive, but those who create, do it, those who, for all of us sitting in here, are making that money that we get paid at the end of the month. It is necessary for them and those entrepreneurs who are employed to reduce their taxes, to ensure that they are able to work. If there's more left for them, the workers will have more than that. In this way, it is possible to start talking when these trends turn upwards, when economic growth is the same as in 2004-2008, i.e. 7, 8, 9%, and employment there is over 55, 56 000, as in 2004-2008. When we balanced the 2008 budget, for the first time in the history of Slovenia, that the budget was balanced, revenue and expenditure, even the positive effect was. At that time, we can begin to talk, and such circumstances must be so that we can have a good conversation about the matter. Since then, from 2008, nothing has been done in this area to this day. Not to mention the year when the Slovenian Democratic Party had a government partner when economic growth was minus 7, almost minus 8%. If we hadn't done what we did at the time, the question would have been if this country still existed today if there had not been a complete collapse and collapse of the state budget and our system. When we did that, suddenly the socialist government comes back and goes to hell. We give, we give, we give to those who give, we give to those who give so much, we give to those who give so much, and no one ever wonders where we're going to get it. Why did we get to 33 billion debt? In 2008, when we finished the government, it was 7.8 billion or something, but now we're on 33. What are the effects, where is this money? With the thieves who were exhausted through the banks outside our country, and so on, I will not always repeat this same old one. It's unacceptable. It's extremely distasteful. In such circumstances, it is very difficult for us to go about solving the demographic problem, which is a first-class problem that is urgently needed to be addressed. It was already very late to get rid of it, because until now, apart from the fact that a group has established itself, which has met four times, some concrete results from this government are nowhere to be seen and I have not read anything. That is why I say that this government, which creates such circumstances, will be very difficult to live up to for all generations, where the intergenerational agreement of all is extremely important and crucial, and it will be very difficult to reach this goal because it itself has divisive features. You see, inside the coalition, inside the social partners, there's just a fight. This is not a condition for us to create some smart solutions so that these would be the circumstances in which this coalition and this government could come up with any clever solutions. They're not the circumstances. We need to clear this up first. If we had three or four priorities, this government could work. But it's not that she came in with fraud and then it's what she is – without clear guidelines, without a clear program, clear foundations, and so on. Then she wrote something fast together, a coalition contract that has been virtually implemented by 10% up to this point. My dears, this is a very sad image of the current government and the current coalition. Although I think or hope that this agony will end as soon as possible, because if we want something good for the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people, I think it is the last moment that this coalition and this government are going to "walk". Where they came from with the con. Only then will conditions be laid down for this society to breathe and for those bandits, thieves and robbers who have robbed this country to be in the same condition as we are today. Because of these debts and everything else, we will still have very big problems, including demographics and so on. In the long run, we will still have a headache. That's a good thing to remember. And the generation that's coming after us. Because if you only have a debt in your pocket when you take over the farm at home, then you know what's waiting for you. Those who have ever created something in their lives know this, not those who have worked in colleges or elsewhere who have received a salary every month, whether they have done something or not. No quality, it doesn't matter. You see what's going on in this system. Look at that. When I look at this coalition, especially the larger part of the SMC, they cannot take smart solutions for those who work, create and work for 400, 500, 600 or 700 euros a lifetime. They can't. Because they don't have that feeling because they never put it through. I gave it to you. In front of the entire Slovenian public, I'm not ashamed. I've done everything I can in this world, and I know what it's like to live with that money. If those of you who are children of professors, and so on, who have come to excellent positions through some political story, put this through, we would also be thinking significantly differently today and there would be a lot of things going on in this House. It's a lot of things. But if you have a wallet full, there's no problem. That's when it's wise to discuss everything, to talk about everything, and even if you've never experienced it, because you can't understand it. Unfortunately. I hope that the next Parliament will elect a team that will come from these environments and who will understand what is the key problem to be faced. In Slovenia, this is poverty, this is demographics, this is the problem of pensioners with minimum pensions, which I mentioned earlier, who receive €370 at the age of 41.5. This is the absurdity of all absurdities. I hope that this story ends as soon as possible and that new conditions will be created so that Slovenian people will be better and better off in this society and will enjoy living in Slovenia. Not like now that they are moving to Austria and elsewhere every day because they do not have the right conditions for survival. Shameful and sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u57	The representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Let me just say that colleague Pojbič has highlighted the problems of socially excluded elderly people in Slovenia. I just want to make it up to you, but I'm gonna go the other way. The over-average high proportion of socially excluded people could become an even more pronounced problem with the increase in the number of older people. It seems very important to me, and I hope that the Government has also taken into account that projections suggest an increase in the inequality of population ageing throughout the region. When you turn over a leaf and see what regions are where the future will actually get to an increase in age, it seems to me that I can expose the Sava region. In the projection until 2050, it best shows Central Slovenian, Coastal-Kraška and Gorenjeski. This will also affect infrastructure and the transport development of society. Demography isn't just about having older people. We must then also know how and what will need to be regulated in the future as regards infrastructure. However, I also expected from the government team that someone would speak more about the programme that the SVRK is preparing with the OECD. I am talking about a software tool, which, of course, is also provided or financed by the OECD, precisely because of our worrying demographics. A tool is being developed to make a more sustainable society. We are some kind of pilot project from the European Union and the European Commission. If you type in the increase in births, you will simply get a set of all the necessary measures from this programme, including in another area. I welcome this and really hope, in line with the Minister's assurance that this will happen as soon as possible. We really need this, and this should have been here on the tables yesterday, not that we might have to wait another year. That's what I'm afraid of. I want you to tell me more about this. Because what I'm listening to here today is, of course, the views of each individual or individual political group on the resolution of demographics, and what is more concrete than simply following. I have said what measures we have proposed, namely in reducing taxation for minimum wages, in reducing general relief and in allowing for dual pensioner status. But you say no to everything we suggest, and there is practically no other solution. Therefore, the purpose of today's session is to come out with ideas that we are looking at together and we are trying to implement into our legislation, however, to take a step forward. Given that the demographic projection shows an increase in the inequality of population ageing across regions, I find it very worrying that some regions will be virtually without some younger workforce, which will eventually be able to care for the elderly or care for the elderly. This seems to me to be of great concern, and I do not see any good action here either.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanja Zink, prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mrs Susana Lep Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, welcome to my side too! The demographic trends we are talking about should certainly be taken seriously and considered how to plan policies in specific areas such as employment, social and family policy. In short, we need to be strategic and visionary in this sense in all aspects of our lives and activities. Even on the parental committee, when we discussed this subject, we actually touched on it with several different aspects. In your request today's debate, you highlighted the following: the birth rate, which is below the level of easy renewal and consequently ageing of the population, the need for legal arrangements for long-term care, inadequate social and family policies, the need for pension reform, the social exclusion of older and, above all, older single women. I can say that I fully agree with you that these are pressing questions and that we also have to look for the right answers, but I think that we must be precise enough to mention these facts. If I first touch on the issue of birth decline, you state in your request that the latter is closely linked to the changed way of life. True, life has changed radically, much different than it was 10 and 20 years ago, about 30 years ago. As a country, we are also under the influence of changes in the global sense, that is, beyond our borders, which have a bearing on life in our country, which cannot be avoided, especially as regards the working population, work and employment policy in Slovenia. Formerly in the position of the Group of Members, Comrade Jernej Vrtovec said that the system is simply different, that the system forces us into a different or certain way of life. I wonder if it's even possible to get out of a system like this? If I return to your statements, as far as fertility is concerned, we are no exception on a European scale. No country within the European Union is achieving a fertility rate that ensures easy renewal of the population. I cannot agree that we do not have a family policy or that it is inadequate. I would understand and accept the obvious that this one is flawed, not inadequate. I'm sure she wouldn't be flawed if the state cash register were full. It should be stressed that state support measures to create a family and raise the quality of family life by international standards are beneficial. Here I am referring to the system of parental benefits and family benefits and the orderly protection of preschool children. In Slovenia, we still have one of the most friendly parental systems in the European Union for parents and children. Although the proportion of children aged 3 to 5 and enrolled in kindergartens has decreased in recent years, it is still higher than the average of the European Union. It is true that the austerity measures have also gone into family policy, with some rights lifted or reduced by the ZUJF, but we know that the amounts of the child allowance are, say, in the fifth and sixth income classes of the 1st grade. 1. 2016 increased by around 10%. It is precisely with the amendment of the Law on Labour Market Interventions and Parental Protection at the end of 2014, that the Government extended certain measures for the employment of young people for an indefinite period of time. We have adopted the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, so that some of the findings cited by the applicant and on the basis of which it seems that the State does nothing in the area of family policy are indeed not justified. According to Eurostat, countries with a higher birth rate than we do, particularly those that place a high emphasis on gender equality policies. These are Scandinavian countries, which also have one of the highest levels of employment of women and are able to coordinate professional and family life. With us, the Sector for Equal Opportunities of the Ministry of the Ministry of Labour with the project Active. All successfully ran and gained nearly a quarter of a million euros from the European Commission. The aim of the project is to harmonise private and professional life with an emphasis on active paternity so that women can increase their economic independence and make better use of their educational and labour potentials. If I am not mistaken, this and the following year the project is carried out in the area of Kamnik Municipality. 1. 1. We have adopted the Law on Labour Market Interventions, by which we wanted to facilitate the employment of older unemployed persons, in a way that would provide employers with certain benefits in paying for their employment. We have also amended the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which allows all insured persons who qualify for an old or early retirement pension to decide whether to remain full-time employees or to be fully engaged in employment paid 20% of their pension, irrespective of age, i.e. after 65 years of age, which until that amendment was the upper limit. In addition, the possibility of a partial pension remains if the insured remains in a working relationship for at least 2 hours a day. It is essential that the amendment of the law regulates double status for all and no one else is exempt, which until now has been regarded as independent entrepreneurs. However, the law, as such, is sustainable for the pension fund and provides savings. Since April this year, we have an extremely important document, the White Paper on pensions, which is only the first step towards any further changes that follow, but it is an important document, as has already been said, for the sustainability of the pension system. In short, so to begin to report to the government that it is not responsive, I think it is not entirely justified. As you have heard, I have been able to list a number of measures, laws, documents that indicate that this government is coping with challenges, and I could also list them. But it is true that there is still much work ahead of us, and that will not be enough for future governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u61	Thanks, mag. Zinc. The representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Tanya! It is true that you have very well covered what the problem is, and it is true that we are somewhere in the same situation compared to European countries. But it seems to me that this word "approximation" cannot exactly be the one on which we will build a future family policy, because according to the EUROOP2013 demographic projections in Slovenia, the population ageing process we are already facing will be more intensive than in other European Union countries, which, of course, will also affect the smaller number of births. We would like to draw attention to this and to the need to encourage a positive family policy. I've said before that we have a whole bunch of protective supplements, social transfers, child support. But what does all this help if parents look at how much of the money he got for his birthday from his old mother or his aunt, he'll have the baby on the ledger, because then because of that change or the few hundred euros on the ledger, he'll just lose or fall into a lower class in social transfers. All of this has a negative impact on a positive attitude toward children and families. It is true that it is also happening abroad, but yet the labour market abroad is somehow different, it is based on other foundations, and social security is greater. That is why I said earlier that, for social security reasons, young people are also going abroad, because they simply do not imagine having five copyright contracts to ensure the minimum necessary for survival, i.e. less than EUR 500. True, when families, husbands, and wives make decisions and have a positive affection for parents and families, one can easily stay at home and take care of the family, including for a larger number of children. Unfortunately, we don't have that much and it's not a common phenomenon. This was decided in the past, in the period 2004-2008. I think that in 2007 it was introduced to encourage the number of new births in those families that could have already been established and had two, three children. It seems to me that it is necessary to understand that the foreign side in this area is making this more possible. I am thinking, of course, of Germany and France, that I am not talking about Scandinavian countries, where it is entirely self-evident that we have employment for four hours or even that our father stays at home and takes care of our family. I also say that in the same distribution of roles in the family, of course, this is the arrangement of husband and wife, parents, how they will share them. I never objected to the fact that the two have the right to regulate their way of life, their living environment, and their relationship to their family. I really want to point out that sometimes, let's say today in these debates, I feel that it is somehow wrong to say that fertility needs to be increased. I can hear it won't save us. We have two options, as Mr Vasle said at the presentation of the document Demographic Change and its economic and social consequences at the Union Hotel. Either we take care of it ourselves or we have to take out the immigrants, migrants. I said that somehow I could see a way where we could both go at the same time. By no means will we be able to provide ourselves with sufficient births and not exclusively support immigration into the country, but we must pursue an appropriate policy for all together. Or this policy will, simply to this day, for the second or third time, when we talk about this demographic, I have not received any assurance and no guidance, despite all the increases in children's allowances for singles and so on. All this is welcome, but that's not enough. We need to pursue a policy that will actually promote a positive attitude towards children, a positive attitude towards parents, a positive attitude towards the elderly, so that we do not have social exclusion in the area of older people and those who are placed in institutional protection. We simply need to establish a positive policy, a positive attitude towards these most vulnerable groups and, of course, the most needed in our society for the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u63	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka and Dr Jasna Murgel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u64	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There aren't many of you in the hall. I am truly surprised that only two of the candidates are members of the Chamber. I personally believe that demography, which is a specific knowledge or specific science, is not at all as insignificant as the number of Members and Members in this Chamber. I must admit that the interesting debate on the working body, at times even controversial, was at times relaxing when we were learning how and what measures should be taken to raise this birth rate and the number of births. Allow me to begin by expressing my clear position on the two terms appearing in the title of today's debate. First of all, an alarming state. I must make it clear here that I do not agree that the situation is alarming. I have a feeling when we're talking about alertness, that the red light is on fire, that it's flashing all the lights, that it's as far away as we are before the crash, before the collapse, before I know what the apocalypse is, and that's probably not the case. The demographic trends are very uniform and are going in this direction that Europe is a continent of the ageing population. Slovenia is no exception. In a few years and decades, this trend will also affect other continents. It is true, however, that Slovenia is particularly disadvantaged, as I can read from a number of research and studies. That our government needs some criticism here and there or permanently, I agree, because any positive criticism has led to success, but the view that this government is completely non-responsible in the field of demographics and all other activities that are directly related to the study of composition and population growth is, of course, unacceptable. I am extremely happy and proud to remind you that, last week, we are at the home work body and, as a result, at the December meeting of the National Assembly, we will adopt the Law on Social Security Benefits, where we have somehow corrected the error of the past. Pika. This will allow people without any fear of losing their hard-earned and well-equipped properties and will be able to exercise this right to social security benefits if their material situation is such that it will enable them to survive with dignity. He's giving We've corrected the famous ZUJF a little bit. We have freed up our lunches of students or students in a way that allows those in the second and third classes to have free lunch or that the subsidy is 100%. I also consider this to be a small, obviously insufficient measure to eliminate this differentiation among the individual inhabitants of our country. After all, we have come to the reserve demographic fund, which we have written in our coalition contract, and we mean it quite seriously. We want this law to live as soon as possible, absolutely at the beginning of 2017, but in fact after ten, fifteen years of accumulation, perhaps even twenty years of accumulation begins to pass on results and in some way burdens the budget and consequently becomes a guarantee or marriage for the smooth payment of pensions, so that no one will ever have to be afraid to resort to pensions in order to reduce them so as not to harmonise them and so on. Here I have to react, although I do not remember now exactly who said in the previous debate that this REC, the reserve demographic fund, will solve all the problems and problems in this area. Of course not. Of course, it will not save everything, but it will make an important contribution to improving the sustainability of public finances and that pensions can be paid in the long run. Speaking of pensions, of course, I always stop here, maybe for a moment longer than would be necessary. Of course, I wouldn't just reject this white book, but I wouldn't take it as dry gold. The fact is, some solutions are good. Some solutions give us a lot to think about, but we don't have to rush this white book, as in the previous reform, when my colleagues, including Desus, who participated in this government, are "painted" with just a formula for calculating pensions, and the result is that some pensions are today miserable and shamefully low. We will end this with solutions in the new pension legislation, which, as it is said, does not have to be rushed. The system is currently sustainable and will need to come up with some solutions after 2020 and be introduced gradually. Speaking of shamefully low pensions, however, this must be resolved sooner and earlier, allowing people not to be below the threshold of poverty. This is our common desire and our joint effort. There's been so much talk about health care, I don't know if there's anything else that needs to be done here. The ears and the eyes themselves are for us to see and hear what will come to 12. 12th on our bench. I believe — I am the optimist by nature — that in time, and this very long waiting line will become the pace of passage. What does this debate on demographics seem to me to be very, very important and why did I also press the button against the proposals proposed by Nova Slovenije? And I believe that this was well-intentioned by the proposer. But why did I press the counter button? Because I'm slowly fed up with some suggestions, some recommendations to the government, I don't know what. Let me be honest with you that I am also full of a variety of strategies and resolutions, although I would not like to underestimate these documents, because they are still important, they give some gabarits, some point where we will move in the direction we are going. But the long-lived society strategy, the family policy resolution, the migration strategy and so on are documents for which the government has pledged to prepare them, of course. But that's not enough. This is far from being nothing, surely these things are necessary, but as I say, these are some guidelines, and then we need specific laws. I mentioned some of them, some of them can be expected as soon as possible in the area of family policy. The family code is supposed to combine into a comprehensive regulatory framework even legislation and this area. I have not last spoken of long-term care in the presentation of the parliamentary position, and I will not repeat it now. Personal Assistance Act. As far as I'm concerned, I'll confirm it. We'll take it further. But when there is certainly an additional and better solution, we will complement it. But if anyone comes with an ideal solution to the legislation in this area, I will be very happy to support it. Therefore, laws are needed that will specifically bind and that will have concrete solutions written in their parishes. What does it look like is still very important to me to point out? Today we're talking about demographics, which is the widest possible matter. You know where we started today. My friend Pojbich was talking about public debt, we were talking about tycoons, there's nothing you can say about this subject. The school system is also a matter that naturally fits in. But what do I want, me personally and probably someone else? That we don't make drawers, that we don't do some kindergartens, that's family politics, that's my area, that's the minister from this party and this party, and he's going to do it, education is another story, employment is also in that ministry, and housing policy is one other minister, even from another party, that's what he's going to do, and that's what we're going to do, and so on. I think that all these policies need to be combined, integrated into a whole, only then can it be expected to have some synergistic effects and have someone in total. Where does the matter begin? Okay, it starts with a baby, it starts with a baby. We were taught how to work in this area. It's continuing through education. Employment policy is key. If there are no jobs — but to understand ourselves, decent wages and decent forms of employment, not reprimands — this does not lead anywhere. Minimum wages don't lead anywhere. Then, of course, we continue with all other policies, including family policies. Social services are still important. And it would be nice if we didn't need social policy, but it's a mission impossible, but it's not working. In short, all these policies need to be somehow combined into some comprehensive roof policy and then these results, I believe, will come. All the way to the end. I would sincerely like an intergenerational dialogue in the true sense of the word. Many times he wants to or refuses to try to show off some conflict between generations. Why? The older population has a lot of experience, a lot of knowledge, a lot of past knowledge, which is priceless. On the other hand, there is a young generation, inspiring, full of some new technical knowledge, filled with theory. This matter can be merged and linked to one another. I think it is only here that it is possible to find some positive multiplier effects, as he has many times said former Minister of Finance, and it is only by doing so that we can move on. However, I do not think that some artificial conflict situations are subject to search, nor is it necessary to seek, meaningfully or wisely, some artificial differences between this and another political option. We all probably want that, regardless of age, regardless of geographical origin. Perhaps Pojbič did not mean so much with this education when he put intellectuals in colleges in vain, as all knowledge is probably needed. If we know and can coexist, I believe we can achieve something and take this country out of these red numbers. However, I am also sure, and I must conclude that the results are not so bad. Here and there we are getting better, here and there we see a positive shift, a small number of unemployment, not excessively high but stable economic growth, exports are still the main driver. And there's something that people need to know. If the belts are tightened all the time, we'll run out of holes. The hole in the belt will run out. Or an onion concept that every housewife will know. If you peel onions, you get to the center soon, and then you're out of fruit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u65	Representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u66	Thank you. My colleague Prikl said that he did not agree with the sign of an alarming situation, but those are not my words, not the words of New Slovenia or the SDS, with which we made these recommendations together, but also the words of the OECD and the European Commission. At European Union level, Slovenia is genuinely concerned by socio-economic indicators, particularly in the area of rapid ageing. That's what the Umar report says. And yet I hope that you listen so much within the coalition, because today you can see exactly how each party takes its ministry, no matter what the other two coalition parties say. I got this feeling, not just me, a lot of other people, because you're all expecting what happens now with consent to health and so on. Interesting. The Minister of the Government of Development and Cohesion also said that she always warned them when they came to the OECD to warn them there. Therefore also this interactive approach of them to make some tools to help our society and our Slovenia. Since we are so small, this model is probably faster and more manageable and would be a pilot project for Europe as a whole. I hope we can see that as soon as possible. "Abolishing the shamelessly low pensions, this will be done. "This sentence of yours, Comrade Prikl, I wrote it down. I would really like to see this happen, even if I want it to happen as soon as possible, and I will repeat that without those promises, there are thousands of euros in pension. But if we don't help those who actually work on the market and offer pensions or make it possible to pay for a pension, that's not gonna happen. Laws are needed, and those who create added value in Slovenia must also be listened to, through which we then have the opportunity to actually pay other citizens into the pension and health allowance. It seems to me that there may be only one aspect of our situation too often. There is a need to mention the aspect of the learning society. I can tell you that in the past days, I was at a round table where the representatives of Austria were already doing so. There they already saw that dual education was the only right way. Why? Because at the same time they include over 55 years of age to educate younger people. In fact, they are considering reducing the number of hours per week, from a 40-hour week to 30 hours. At the same time, they want to enable older ones to teach younger ones and to open new jobs at the expense of reducing the number of hours. This is what Denis Strieder from Austria told me, which is in the working group of intergenerational cooperation between young and old. Sometimes we stand here and we don't even know what other people are doing. I'm not saying that it's necessary to copy or rewrite their system, but other societies are also developing and caring for their own demographics. I don't know if we're waiting for them to do this to us in the European Union and then tell us again, but Slovenia has to do it, and then we'll have the resistance of citizens and citizens to do everything we have to do again. We have to do this ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have three more debaters, the first is Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, then Dr Jasna Murgel and Mr Franc Jurša. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. All present, and welcome again! Sometimes I wish I didn't sit here in the hall and listen to everything because I get so much inspiration, what I'd like to tell someone to just run out of time. But it doesn't matter. I've just heard about this meaning of how all policies need to be brought together. How much I agree with this, but it is usually so that when a coalition is formed, exactly in a coalition contract, all the different policies combine in some way, the path is drawn and the current government is driving and pulling its wagon. Not long ago, we discussed the work of this government, because unfortunately it has not been much done yet, although we are promising a whole lot of everything that will come to the National Assembly by the end of the year, and it will probably be very varied. We talked about the government's failure to respond, and we heard that the government is not responsible. Okay, it's kind of responsive, but I'd say it's just cosmetic repairs that we got. For example, the Social Security Act has been repeatedly exposed today. How many times has the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed to amend this law? Twice or even three times in this term. And you didn't confirm it. This problem, in which we all agreed that it should be settled and that it was unfair, could be solved earlier. But you obviously didn't think it was that important at the time or you wanted to do it yourself. Anyway, all these are trifles, specific things have been done a lot before. I'll give you a free daycare for the second and more kids. When was this accepted? End of 2007. Of course, this then somehow fell within the mandate of the new government, which also owned many things at the time, but this was adopted in 2007. This was a concrete measure. This wasn't some little correction at college lunches. Another concrete measure that has greatly facilitated family budgets is the subsidisation of transport tickets for students and students. And this in 2012, despite the crisis and despite others, it is possible to take slightly sharper measures. So unfortunately in this area we haven't gotten anything concrete once, all that was was cosmetic corrections. But now we have one date next week, 12. 12th, when we save health care. Last but not least, it was also said in June before Minister Kopač's first intervention that by the end of the year a bunch of legislation in the field of social affairs would have come to the National Assembly. Because there wasn't much of that. There is still no need to reorganise social work centres. Things are getting ready, but they've been getting ready for years, so unfortunately we can't promise any more concrete changes here than obviously. Now, what we're talking about today is demography. These are essentially facts, these are data that stand and that, I believe, we all agree and we are aware of. These are facts, problems, challenges, whatever we call them. We know that the population is on average older, we have more older people. Fortunately, because of the longer life span, it is very encouraging for society to increase our life span. We know that we have a significant underbirth, and we also know that we are significantly underactive. These are the facts we all agree with. It is right that we should discuss this, in the past, and it is essential that we take some concrete measures or actions that may lead to a slightly better or more stimulating future in the future. Because however we turn and watch these numbers, they are not the most beautiful. We want different ones, of course. If we look at the area of the elderly, we know what the state of the pension is. We know that there will be an urgent need for a new pension system, one concrete reform that will also be more sustainable in the long term. It must be made in a way that those who are at peace today will have a little more; that those who are working today will have some incentive and guarantee that we will get something at the end of the old age; and that, finally, those who are just going to start working will see some perspective in us and in this pension system. Whatever the way we turn, of course, the fact that our population is old has the most influence on our pension allowance and has a lot of influence on the health treasury itself. We know we have one of the bags that we're taking from, but there's a lot of things to do here. One is waiting species, the other is corruption, which can eventually be detected. We probably don't want to become a society in the future where, for every single tragic case, we're going to collect stoppers, which is happening more and more. We must not allow this in a country like Slovenia. These are therefore specific changes that must be made. When the elderly are old, it is also necessary to think about how care for the elderly will be provided, whether homes for the elderly work well or not, or whether we have enough or not to provide home care. On the one hand, we make it very easy to extend our working hours, and on the other hand, we have older people who cannot expect their children to be able to care for them because they are simply at work at the time. We need to think about what these people are going to do to hire them. Long - term care has been discussed for a long time, and we do not have it. It is very important that we also allow older people to stay as long as possible in the labour market and that even when they are retired, they can be reintroduced back into the labour market in some way to encourage them. It is very important that we think how the older, the wisest generation can help the younger., and that we find some suitable solution for future generations. As far as social policy is concerned, it is important to ask whether this social policy is appropriate. Young families want to make enough income for themselves to support their families. They don't see a solution in social transfers. This is an addition, but in the first place there are important jobs, where work is also properly paid. If we say they're important young people, we have to go all the way from the beginning into the education system itself. Changes in the education system to actually make these people employable. We need to look at what's going on in the market, what's going on in the economy. We have also talked about this many times, and we have not yet made or adopted any specific changes. It is important for young people to see the future here in Slovenia, not to be educated through kindergarten, primary school, high school and college on one side, but eventually to leave and lose them when they start working for the older generation. We have a lot of people, 15 grand a year goes away. But they're leaving active. A lot of young people. Of course, on the other hand, it is said that people are also moving in with us. But is this work activity comparable? Can we draw a line here? On the other hand, it is important to consider, not least, that you boast a lot about reducing unemployment. That's great, but we need to look at how much we've raised our employment. They are important for us to be active, not reducing unemployment at the expense of people going abroad, at the expense of being involved in some active employment policy programmes. There's no solution to that. I agree that if we look at the structure of people's employment, in the past there have been a lot of employees with independent entrepreneurs, but today we have more independent entrepreneurs. But why? Because a lot of people are forced into this. This is not a free enterprise initiative and an initiative to see young people's future here. There's a lot of times they're forced to go into this. We probably don't want that either. We want concrete jobs. Of course, conditions must be created for this. Again, we are in the economy and that we should actually burden it, not burden it. Because if we didn't have such successful companies, our exporters, we wouldn't have such economic growth. We could only talk about 1%. Consumers are still low in Slovenia. In fact, it is important to make sure that young people stop going abroad and that those who work there may come back. But I'm afraid, given the rates these day-to-day migrant workers get to pay the income difference, that a lot of them will change their mind and move across the border. Let's think about it. These are topics that are actually difficult, where a truly broad consensus is needed — from youth to older ones. We're talking about some intergenerational solidarity. Everything is important, but it is right to start talking about it, and it is right to set up such a system so that, in fact, a good future can be seen in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u69	The representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I agree with what my colleague Susan said about the need to review resettlement in demographics. Finally, working migrants working across the border must not stay in a hole somewhere, as we say, where they would not have arranged for marriage. I have to say again that I am sorry that you did not understand why it is necessary to raise the general income allowance to EUR 7,000, as proposed in New Slovenia. It is also simply to keep these migrant workers in our Slovenia, because they are, after all, part of our demographics. When she explained it, I remembered the words of some of the mayors at the Croatian border. Now let's leave the Hound, including Rogatec. What does the congregation of Rogatec experience? Even with some unusual demographic or family-friendly politics. Why? Because in Slovenia all these social transfers, which are taken into account in the calculation of the payment of the kindergarten, the amount of the scholarship, the amount of the child supplement, are covered in such a strange way that Slovenian citizens living along borders – we are talking only about the municipality of Rogatec – are simply taking children to kindergarten in Croatia. Does it not seem very important to all of us to look at why this is happening? Because kindergartens are cheaper there. It is not only the congregation of Rogatec, we also have Jelšanes, all these border congregations that are actually meeting this demography that emigrates to the Croatian side. The elderly in Jelshan and Postojna are already settled in homes for the elderly in the river. It seems to me that it is necessary, however, to look at what we are doing wrong in this country, so that we can assure our citizens that all these institutions will serve them so that they do not seek a solution in other countries. If this is possible, this raises the overall relief to €7,000, which raises the overall relief to €7,000. Because all of this affects or will affect the demographic picture over the next 20 years. Because if he goes down to kindergarten, the question is, if he doesn't go to primary school and so on, he's going to stay somewhere else in another country. I don't think that's a negligible remark from my colleague Susan. I just wanted to expand it with typical or key cases that are actually happening. I would only touch on the fact that everything that is happening – both in the government and today in Parliament – is an event or a show for the public, because we simply do not come up with any deeper solutions. Last but not least, we are all talking about problems and so on, but I am sure that every Member State has some solution in its field, especially those that have an electoral programme and have been identified there. I wanted to mention in all this that we are also talking about the health system, what it will be like and what it will be like. I regret that here many times he forgets about burned doctors, those at the primary level who, according to the Statistical Office, have actually burned out and who, even in the event of death, are several years apart from everyone else. Young doctors are simply not viewed, they are not given the same opportunities, nor are young engineers or young people in different professions. I mentioned earlier how employment and demographics in Austria are already being tackled, and perhaps I could just mention that they are already receiving dual education, where they are trying to connect students and students with the economy. Do you know what was interesting to me? They said that they are also implementing this through Erasmus and that this dual system is being increasingly implemented. I wonder if the Secretary of State knows what it's like to introduce this before we finish because the Vice-President has actually announced that we're going to the end. What, though, is it like in Slovenia with this area of deployment with the help of European funds if Erasmus is present? However, this is probably the area of the Ministry of Education. However, if you have any information for your ministry, of course you would be very grateful, including for thinking about demographics in the coming year.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel, you have the floor. Behind her is Mr. Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues, as many of you as are left, good evening to all our citizens if they are watching us. I see how important this meeting is for the applicants, given that only the last two Mohicans represent the candidates and are exemplaryly defending them. The others are not present at the hall. Maybe the darkness is important, but they're not here to show it. We're talking about everything today. I don't know what the debate hasn't brought up again, even how the elections are a fraud, even though I don't know what that has to do with demographic change. In view of what my colleague Pojbič said, I felt that I should be ashamed of being educated after high school for another ten years. I don't know, maybe he should try, and he'll see what that's like. I'm proud of being educated, proud, and I can't help but say that and mention it. No one gave me anything, no one gave me anything, and I will continue to be proud of my education because I earned it myself. Here I do the best I know and know, and I believe that the same is true of all the educated colleagues he's been grooming. Let us go to the actual theme of today’s session, which we are discussing today, and these are demographic changes. Colleagues have already talked about what the government is planning. This strategy was also discussed by Comrade Prikl, if not by someone else. I also sometimes think that we should always have a strategy, but these are important documents that give us direction that give us the red thread, what we will do in the future. I have not supported the conclusions, as proposed, because the Government is already doing the things that these conclusions call for, or will do these things in the coming period. The Law on Long-term Care and Personal Assistance was the subject of another point of the proposed decision. I myself have been involved in discussions and preparations for the arrangements for long-term care and personal assistance. I know that the proposal for the Personal Assistance Act has been tabled, but I am very skeptical as to whether this proposal would include all groups that are in need of personal assistance. I am also personally interested, but I hope that we will not discuss this Personal Assistance Act at this meeting, because we will discuss this once again. But I am personally interested in regulating long-term care and personal assistance, because long-term care does not just mean caring for the elderly. We see long-term care as a home for pensioners and other forms, but there is also the care of all who are unable to take care of themselves. I always think about how many parents I know alone and how many of them turn to me, who have severely ill or children with special needs, who are themselves cared for by their own care, and practically 24 hours a day. Both these people and these children are persons who need such assistance and who need help, so I am representing the view that, in the framework of the Long-Term Care and Personal Assistance Act, all of this should be addressed together so that those who need either occasional or long-term care actually get it. I am therefore making my own efforts, and I am also aware of the Government's efforts to regulate long-term care and personal assistance. We must not blind ourselves here, of course, because there is a particular problem of cooperation and sharing of tasks between the two ministries. I also expect the ministries themselves to harmonise themselves to this law because we need it bloodyly and urgently. Of course, it will also be necessary to consider financial resources, but this will be discussed when this matter is on the table. But it's already very far away, so we can expect it in a short time at the beginning of next year. I cannot stress enough how personally I, and also the people I know in this area, are interested in regulating these matters. I am also putting pressure on the Government to put this law into Parliament as soon as possible. Another area is the health sector. We all look forward to 12. 12, so on Day D, a package of health laws filed covering this area. These are also very necessary laws that we are all waiting for. But let us remember that we have been repeating this for 20 years, or since this country existed, that we need a reform of the health system. Unfortunately, so far no one has succeeded. I think we are now on the finish line, and I believe that these laws will be submitted – I cannot avoid these words, as I believe, and I hope I am optimistic – because they are certainly preparations at the last stage. Laws will be submitted to Parliament or coalition partners by 12. December 12th is already here, that's next week on Monday. That way, we'll have a chance to deal with this. Health care concerns point 3 of the proposal for a recommendation. As far as health is concerned and the recently signed agreement with the Fides trade union, I cannot go beyond what has been mentioned today that this agreement is intended to entail additional financial obligations. That's not true. This agreement provides only for the termination of trade union activities and provides an agreement on which matters relating to the work of doctors will be dealt with as a priority in the future and in which direction, that is, in order to achieve what objectives. This does not mean that doctors are exempt from the single system of public sector wages, but only that these matters will be regulated in negotiations with all public sector unions and all public sector employees. The signed agreement means that there are finally regulations for the work of doctors, which will also allow us to hire enough specialists in the future, because we do not have them now. We still have to educate them, we have to specialize them, and we have to gradually introduce them into the system when they're educated. The numbers speak of thousands of 831 specialists by 2023. I've always lived in the belief that we have enough doctors waiting to get a job, but we don't have enough specialists. I had to respond to this so that there would be no increase and no new financial obligations, but only doctors would have regulations on what they needed to do at regular working hours, what their standards and standards were. As far as the other recommendations are concerned, they are also unacceptable because, as I said, they are urging the Government to do what it is doing, so we have not supported them. I certainly agree with the proposaler that this is an important topic of demographic change in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a topic that concerns the whole of Western Europe, where the population is declining and the population is ageing. These challenges will be faced both by us and by future governments. I agree that it is essential that we discuss these matters and find concrete solutions, but this is a very complex subject that we must address here and now, I agree that there will be as few problems as possible in the future. I will work on my own in Parliament as much as it is within our competence to take the best possible solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u73	Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much. With regard to today's debate, I would like to make some comments that relate mainly to the long-term financial sustainability of the healthcare system, a healthy, long-lived society, and also to comment on some of the waiting periods, and finally to give a few words about the conclusion of a signed agreement to break the strike requirements with the Fides trade union. True, first there is analysis and resolution, then there are laws and then there are action plans. In the Resolution of the National Health Plan 2016-2025 "Common for the Society of Health" we committed ourselves to the European values of health systems such as universality, solidarity, justice and accessibility. On the basis of the analysis of the health system, we have then highlighted in the national plan four priority areas to be addressed in the change process through various short-, medium- and long-term measures. They relate to optimisation of health care, increasing the effectiveness of the health system, fair and sustainable financing of health care and strengthening and health protection. Within the priority area of optimisation of health care, both the Government and the Parliament have already confirmed the strategic orientations for greater integration of health and social services, which has been mentioned several times today not to be sufficiently implemented or implemented, the transformation of supplementary health insurance and the provision of additional new resources for health care, including long-term care. The proposal for a new legislation provides for the creation of a single, integrated system of services and benefits, the pooling of most existing financial resources, their more efficient use and the provision of new additional resources, which will, of course, include the inactive population. These commitments are also taken into account in the establishment of a starting point for a new law on long-term care, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Secondly, in order to ensure the long-term sustainability of healthcare funding, we have already foreseen some key measures in the national plan. Equalising the burden and increasing the responsibility to pay contributions to compulsory health insurance, amending legislation to reduce certain unjustified differences in the payment of contributions between individual insurance categories, extending the contribution base also to passive incomes, renovating the system arrangements for the integration of persons without regulated health insurance into compulsory health insurance, improving the system for more efficient recovery of unpaid health insurance contributions, increasing budgetary resources for education, research and development in health care, very important transformation of the system of payments or supplementary health insurance and better monitoring of consumption in the healthcare system, the establishment of continuous monitoring and monitoring of spending in specific areas. As a very important point, I would like to point out the renovation of the health service financing accounting models and the development of a model for paying healthcare providers according to the performance and selected quality indicators. The new Health and Health Insurance Act takes into account the guidelines outlined. Ageing contributes to increasing the burden of chronic diseases and conditions with risk factors for them. Although studies have shown that in addition to extending life expectancy, healthy life expectancy in people over 65 years of age is increasing, despite all the remaining years of life, they will not survive in full health. The risk of chronic illness, acute illness and multi morbidity increases with ageing and the rate of hospitalisation increases significantly after the age of 65. At the same time as age, the number of people with functional declines or incapacity or disability is increasing, resulting in injury to the elderly. That is why, in terms of ensuring as many healthy years as possible of life, we have foreseen key investments in prevention throughout life, and that is why we also contribute to the control of chronic diseases by individual elements of altered healthcare, including the reference outpatients. Strengthening primary health care, which provides rapid access to basic health services and prevention programmes, strengthening mental health and also regulating the treatment of patients with dementia, establishing a geriatric treatment system for fragile and multidisciplinary patients and palliative care, will contribute significantly to long-term society. There was a lot of talk today about waiting times and their elimination. As well as the development of primary health care, the establishment of pathways and protocols between primary, secondary and tertiary health care, that is to say, with greater connectivity, and in particular with the employment of new doctors in the primary healthcare system, we are looking forward to a significant reduction in waiting periods in the future. In addition to adequate healthcare, we also have a lot of deficits in specialists, as we have seen in the field of rheumatology, orthopaedics, urology, anaesthesia and many other specialties. At this point, I'd like to move on to a signed agreement with the Fides syndicate. To avoid misrepresentations in the public, we must strongly deny or respond to the comments of Ambassador Desus Mrs Juliana Mlakar. This agreement is by no means an agreement to increase medical salaries, nor is it an agreement that unilaterally intervenes in the single salary system. The standards and standards of work of doctors are introduced into the healthcare system with the aim of system organization of work of doctors, ensuring the conditions of work for doctors who will finally have enough time to deal with patients who will talk about the equal burden of doctors and also give quality safety treatment at an even higher level than today, when doctors have many times both in primary care and in specialist under-time. They will enable appropriate personnel planning for the recruitment of specialist doctors in specific specialties. As we've already heard, this moment of doctors in particular specialties is not enough, we're missing over a thousand. No part of the agreement also provides for the possibility of doctors rejecting patients who would seek medical attention. It also assumes that doctors will work through the regulations. The rejection applies only to the identification of patients for family physicians who are already well above the standards of defined patients and who could no longer carry out this with additional determination. That's it, to avoid misinterpretation from the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u75	Mr. Franz Jursha, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u76	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greeting also to the representatives of our government, the State Secretaries of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Nice greetings, of course, to colleagues and colleagues who are still there! I will not count because the others are those who are of course interested in the subject and who can make some contribution to this debate. At the outset, I would say something very important, but so many times already repeated, that it is different when we discuss some things, if someone discusses them as a coalition Member or as an opposition Member. We know it's always about money, about a government malah, where it's always too small to give everyone as much as they need. When you're in the opposition, I want to be liked and I want to share, but when you're in the coalition, most of the time, but not constantly, because I have to stress that, I also want to make sure that this state treasury is sustainable. I would not discuss the agreement with Fides if the Secretary of State did not encourage me to discuss it. And I'll tell you a little bit later on about this. I would still like to comment on some of the other things that have been said before. How can someone always say that this government is bad and so forth? You know, I'm afraid that on the right hand side at this point we wouldn't be able to form a new government, because you're also arguing with each other. I would therefore abstain from this debate. The second thing I would like to point out is these famous thousands of euros. Mr Erjavec, when some of you have not yet sat in these benches, spoke of a thousand euros. In one case, if tycoons can have millions or hundreds of millions, it would be good for pensioners to have thousands of euros. For once, let us give our pensioners enough to survive with dignity. All together. Only then will we have to say where we're going to take this money, because once, 20 years ago, one government took away the employer's contribution or reduced it by half. Now the workers pay once a bigger contribution and the employers pay once a smaller one. That's what makes us a hole in the pension box. That is why the country needs to find a billion $400 million in the budget to replace it. Someone likes to debate, but forgets when the last pension reform was. The Secretary of State remembers very well, and I remember very well when the last pension reform was when we adopted the ZPIZ-2. However, some colleagues do not want to understand and talk about how low pensions are given to pensioners for 40 years of work and over 60 years of age. Also because we accepted it with some of them at the time. It is important to be aware of this and also to discuss it realistically. Unfortunately, my time is running out very quickly, and I won't be able to say what I wanted to say. Nevertheless, I will answer the Secretary of State regarding the agreement with Fides. Madam Secretary of State, I was in the coalition the whole time we talked about this story. Unfortunately, you weren't there, because if you were there, you probably wouldn't be discussing it the way you are. It wasn't like that, otherwise we talked, we said other things, and we demanded other things. However, some other cases were initialled in the agreement and eventually also signed. The coalition account will not have to be presented for what has been adopted, but matters will have to be explained to someone else, and these are public sector unions. This will be the biggest problem, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u77	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mr Peter Pogačar. Here you go, Mr. Pogacar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again, probably last time, a nice greeting for me! I certainly think it's a good idea to discuss demographics, ageing. These are the real challenges of Slovenia, and the question is, if today the topics that have been exposed have really all been precisely focused on this goal. But I think I should comment on some of the points in the debate. The representative of the Group of Members of the United Left has drawn attention to the poverty of employees. Absolutely, employee poverty is a problem, but I would point to something. The overall risk of poverty in Slovenia has increased over the last 12 years, but in the course of this risk of poverty, the proportion of those who are unemployed has increased, and this shows how important the work activity of an individual is to avoid the risk of poverty. However, when we talk about employee poverty, the so-called 'in-work purty', it should be stressed that in Slovenia the share of employee poverty – measured by the European methodology, so that you do not see – is significantly below the average of the Member States of the European Union. Let us not forget that the minimum wage has increased significantly in 2010. In 2014, almost 40,000 Slovenians received a minimum wage. According to the latest data we have for January 2016, the recipients of the minimum wage are only a few more in 20 thousand. That's important information. The number of recipients of the minimum wage has decreased significantly. The honourable Member, Mrs Lepi Šimenko, pointed out that the decline in unemployment is more important than the rise in employment rates. Absolutely. You're right here. It is important to raise the level of employment, so you must also give information at the same time, and I tell you that in the last 12 months the rate of employment of the population has increased by 1.8 percentage points between 20 and 64. This is the biggest rise in a single calendar year in the last nine years since the start of the crisis. That's important information. We are almost approaching the level of work since we are only a little behind the average of the European Union between the years 20 and 64. So much from that point of view. Dear Mrs. Dimic. I think you've given quite a few warnings today. You have pointed out the diversity of ageing across regions. What does it matter? All studies show that we should not deal with ageing just when people are old. It's a lifetime, young and middle-aged. Because if we do not ensure equality of access to health, education and the labour market in young years, these effects also reflect the quality of ageing of the older population. Therefore, it is so important that we look not only at our old age but also at the time when people are active when they enter the educational system. Several times today, it has been reported to the government not to face these challenges. On the contrary. But even today, the debate has shown that the challenge of demography or the challenge of prolonging life spans ranges across different areas and that partial action in a particular area does not provide adequate responses. That is why the Government has decided and is preparing a strategy for a long-lived society, which, as has already been said today, is based on the same document of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which you have also taken as a basis for your request. The main starting point of the new strategy is that we need to see long-lived society as a change, not as a problem, but as a change that requires new solutions and adaptations to existing labour market systems and social security systems. They must be an opportunity and a benefit for all generations, not a threat to intergenerational solidarity. We can't scare people. Intergenerational solidarity is one of the greatest values of this society. Next. This strategy of a long-lived society will be based on the concept of active ageing and will address four areas: the labour market and education from the perspective of a long-lived society; the independent, healthy and safe life of all generations; the inclusion of older people in society; the creation of an environment for active and quality ageing. The Roadmap foresees that at the end of January public hearing will begin – we want a broad public hearing – and by the end of April at the latest, acceptance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I also think it is important to stress that in addition to this strategy of a long-lived society – that we should not be seen as just thinking about what we are going to analyse – the Ministry of Labour has already prepared a document for a decent job with which we want to provide quality jobs, decent employment contracts for all, especially for the young generation. We have prepared a document for the Elderly and the labour market to preserve and improve the employability of the elderly. Let's not forget that we have one of the lowest shares active between 55th and 64th. This document was also prepared by the Ministry. As a continuation of all of this, it also produced a White Book on Pensions, which you have rightly pointed out today. Let me finish this debate. I think these are the real challenges for public debate, but I find it difficult to accept that the Government is not aware of this problem. On the contrary, the Government is aware and is also preparing a comprehensive response. When these strategies are ready, of course, all of you, including the public, are invited to debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ms Iva Dimic, representative of the proposers, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u80	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who understands today that it is important to talk about demographics within Parliament, not only with civil society organisations. The policy must also adopt certain guidelines, certain wishes, in which areas and also how quickly it will respond to demographic change. I really thank everyone, including the government representatives. Let me just touch the next one. Mr. Jurša, I can't get past you, so you're probably still here with me or with us for as long as we have left. You said there were two different functions – the coalition MP and the opposition. I had this opportunity, or for a short time, to experience it. You were probably like Desus all the time in the government and you haven't experienced the opposition. Our mandate in 2012, where we also received certain cuts in the area of family, demographics, I must say, was very painful. As the then coalition MP and as the current opposition, I do not really say anything very different, the same New Slovenia Group. We warn about what matters and how they need to be changed. When we propose our marriage initiative, we never say that the law has no financial implications. Let us always evaluate the financial implications of the law and the source from which a certain legal change would take place. But we are always responsible because, after all, we all know that money does not grow on a tree. Those who still don't know that money doesn't grow in a tree, but I don't really know how to talk to citizens and citizens, because then we're really on two shores. But we know that if you make any changes, you have to make them somewhere within financial sustainability. I think you've touched those thousands of euros, and I'm just going to pass because I think it's necessary to mention them less because it's easy for people to have an opinion on this already. The only thing I find interesting about Desus is that you always say that as long as Desus is in the government, there will be pensions and so on. And just yesterday, a gentleman who always met me there in the driveway at Maxi told me to tell you that he had a 64-cent pension. In short, this isn't some big lift for an individual. I still have the same position as when we dealt with the demographic issue at the Labour Labour Committee, that pensions must be so high or dignified that pensioners with 40 years of work activity – I am talking about 40 years of work – can provide some basic stay in institutional protection. If this is some 628 or as basic a stay as it is, then we should find a way for the 40 - year - old to really work to be active and to pay for the pension money, that is what he gets. Not that I had previously received information that the lady had 40 years of work and received €340 of pension somewhere in the countryside, even though she had worked for 40 years and had actually paid for the pension. It's over. Employment poverty was mentioned, and there was also much talk that the social situation is also improving in the country, that we have fewer unemployed and so on. I am pleased by one information from the Secretary of State, and this is that the increase in the rate of activity from 20 to 64 is 1.8 percentage points. I expect that this trend will continue and that all of those measures of the ZUJF, which have become virtually impossible with work activity and, of course, with the Ministry of Labour, will finally fall away because it is simply a long period to record this work activity. I really hope that all of us here in the National Assembly will work to raise the level of work as it is now, so this is 1.8 percentage points, and that we will also release the seventh, eighth income class for children's allowances, and so on that we will be able to say that we want and also co-create a social state, a social society and that we will be able to help each other. So much for once. Thank you all very much. I expect, as has been said, to consider the first draft of a long-lived society at the beginning of next year, even though when I went to look at the government's future plan for next year, I did not find this at any ministry for 2017. The opposition, however, will ensure that it is aware of what is happening in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-06-SDZ7-Izredna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We've got some time left. Is there any other desire to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. This concludes the agenda. I conclude the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Have a nice night.
