ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Erika Dekleva, mag. Miram Bon Klanjšček by 2 p.m., Janja Sluga by 11 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Franc Laj, Kamal Izidor Shaker and Ivan Hršak. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the 28th item of the agenda, these are the Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. The Group of 51 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mr Matjaz Han, is the State Assembly 16. 5. 2016 proposed to elect Mr Matjaž Germany as Vice-President of the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal for election, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u2	President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, good morning! The Group of Social Democrats, together with the SMC and Desus Group of Members, proposes Mr Matjaž Germany as Vice-President of the National Assembly. In the beginning, however, I would like to speak a few words about the attitude of the SD Group to the institution of the Vice-President of the National Assembly, because in the last few days there has been the impression that the agreement on the allocation of individual seats within the National Assembly is more than the responsibility of party fishing in mud. When differing views on relations within the Social Democrats Group and between the parties on tensions and overplay have arisen in the days of the talks in the parliamentary group and among the parties about the Vice-President's seat, I must deny this because this does not have much to do with reality. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, as its leader, I am in such a position to denounce any false hints around the Vice-President's city. We respect the latter in the Party of Social Democrats as one of the main pillars of the National Assembly, without which we cannot fully realize its work and its content. The Group of Social Democrats has always treated this institution with respect and awareness that this or any other place in the National Assembly is not and cannot be the property of a single party. It is a responsibility to the people and to the fundamental democratic postulates, with which each parliamentary group and all Members and Members must act in a respectful and very responsible manner. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and in the SMC and Desus parliamentary groups, we have done so with the proposal for a Vice-President constructively and to the greatest extent accountable to the National Assembly. The candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, Matjaž Germany, has demonstrated, despite a relatively short parliamentary internship, that a lack of experience can be compensated by a commitment to the work of the Member. More. The Member was entrusted with the administration of the Committee on Justice, which he more than excused. Matjaž Nemec started his career in the private sector and in 2008 he accepted the opportunity to work in the office of the then Prime Minister Borut Pahor, where he remained until 2011. In 2012, he worked as an analyst at the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for communication and for two years as an assistant at the Office of the President of the Republic. Voters and voters recognized the great persistence in it to change things for the better, so in 2006 they gave him the first and the second term as municipal councilor. In 2014 Matjaž Germany gained the trust of the people of the city of the Member States in its first national elections. It is an active policy that always accepts challenges with great responsibility. I believe that both the coalition and the opposition Members have recognized him as a tolerant and rightful Member with a high level of political culture. He always knew and was able to listen to the views of those who were different from his. This personality and behaviour, I believe, is the first letter of the word political culture followed faithfully by Member Matjaž German. This will undoubtedly serve well in his work as Vice-President of the National Assembly. As head of the parliamentary group from which the candidate for Vice-President comes, and as his fellow Member, I am confident that Matjaž Germany will be a good Vice-President of the National Assembly. Let me wish him well on this journey. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank my fellow Member of the Mags. Bojani Muršič for the good and proper work done as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u3	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, good morning! I would like to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners on the candidacy for Vice-President of the German National Assembly. I should like to start by expressing the satisfaction, on behalf of all Members and Members of our Group, that the Group of Social Democrats has reacted so quickly to the resignation of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of their kind that a new Vice-President will be elected at this meeting. Otherwise, the holding of this regular meeting would be very difficult, i.e. the meeting takes place from early morning to late at night. If we didn't have at least two vice presidents, this job would be very difficult. Unfortunately, we still do not have a proposal for a Vice-President, Vice-President of the largest opposition party. As we have already heard, the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Matjaž Germany, certainly has the competence to occupy this city, both in terms of experience and in terms of personality. It is true that Mr German is among the younger Members of this time the composition of the National Assembly is also quite a fresh face on the political scene or the parquet. Indeed, many of Desus’ clients attribute acceptance only to the older generation, which certainly does not mean that we are not open to young, unburdened people. For we keep repeating and stressing that intergenerational solidarity is exactly the fundamental element of every society in which we need to build so that we can live in a state of prosperity in the future and give our children and grandchildren a full life of dignity. And it is precisely in the confirmation of the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Matjaž German, that we see the possibility of synergies between the actions of all three generations. Wisdom and experience will also be joined by youth, which will certainly bring some freshness. This is what we expect of you, Mr German, besides, of course, responsible and conscientious work. However, in order for the leadership of the National Assembly to reflect even more the real reflection of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the vacant seat of the Vice-President of the National Assembly should be filled with the most delicate sex, so once again I call on the SDS Group in good faith to submit its proposal. In the Desus Group, we believe in the entrenchedness of the unified leadership team of the National Assembly, which is why we will be united in supporting Mr German's candidacy as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mr German, I would like to express my sincere congratulations to you at this very moment, and I wish you a successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u5	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The election of the leadership of the National Assembly, whether it be the President or Vice-Presidents, also really means deciding what kind of National Assembly we want and what kind of political culture we lead will be at the end of the day, what will be the impact of people on our work and on this highest democratically elected institution in this country. I think that we can jointly assess that we want an inclusive house of democracy that will operate on the basis of cooperation and overcoming mostly stereotyped relations and divisions, and in particular that we will be able to ensure what is sometimes the most lacking in this house by electing and smart choice of leadership of the National Assembly, not just today, but also by providing what is sometimes the most lacking in this house, this is a patient and respectful dialogue. For we do not want the National Assembly to be, also because of the personality or style of leadership of the presidencies, where procedural battles would take place, where processes would be conducted on their own, or where Members and Members would politically discuss everything else, except what citizens and citizens have elected us to do. The National Assembly must be a field of substantively reasoned debates to fulfil the trust and responsibilities assigned to us by citizens and citizens. Social Democrats and our Group therefore believe that the choice of Matjaž Germany for this city is the best possible under the circumstances. Matjaž also demonstrated by his work as chairman of the Justice Committee that he was able to conduct a patient dialogue and that he advocated an inclusive policy of overcoming traditional divisions. Maybe more than anything else Slovenia needs this. I wish my colleague, in a position that is important and honorable, all good and successful work in the hope that, with his help, this national assembly will also be more democratic, patient and ready to cooperate. Thank you so much and good luck, Matjaž!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u7	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! I think there is no need to talk about personal competences, qualifications, what the past competences and qualifications of other vice-presidents have been. We would like to point out something at this point in particular, which is that we obviously have a problem with the role of Vice-President of the National Assembly in this mandate. On the one hand, as we have already heard, it remains an open place of opposition for the Vice-President. In short, one of the parties, the largest opposition party, still by not proposing a candidate or candidate, in some way prevents the smooth functioning of the National Assembly. The other thing is that we have now witnessed some problems or complications due to alleged illegality. At the time of the resignation of the Vice-President, the leader of the Group of Social Democrats said that they had used their joker to do so, but apparently they found another ace in their sleeve if I put it that way. In light of this, I would just like to point out that it is actually coalition matters and it is a quota belonging to the parties to the coalition, and we cannot really comment enough on these things here. As a marginal remark at the end of this position, however, I would add that, if this quota or refinement had already been sought, in the United Left, we believe that it would be at least appropriate, if not for some good signal to society, for this city to be occupied by a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me first of all to thank, on behalf of the parliamentary group and the coalition, the former Vice-President of the National Assembly for the proper and professional work done in this function. At the same time, let me also say that in the SMC Group we welcome the swift decision of the SD Group to appoint a new candidate to this place and thus ensure the smooth functioning of the National Assembly. Member Matjaž Germany has already proved to be Chairman of the Committee on Justice in the framework of parliamentary action, so we also trust him on this basis because we have seen how and how he will carry out his leadership role as Vice-President of the National Assembly. At the same time, we wish him well at this entry into his shoes left by colleague Bojana Muršič. At the same time, of course, we cannot pass without throwing the ball against our colleagues from the largest opposition SDS Group. We believe that there are some very capable and skilled Members in your ranks who would probably be very competent to take over this empty seat of Vice-President of the National Assembly, which belongs to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u11	Please, be quiet. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Instead of a sober judgment in the coalition you are dealing with the opposition party, it is a matter of completing the leadership of the National Assembly from your quota. We have been monitoring more or less for a very long time the consequences of this sad, illegal mandate, which has been obtained through pre-election fraud and has been burdened with a whole series of violations since the beginning of the mandate. The leadership of the National Assembly is part of this fraud and the daily ongoing abuse in and outside the National Assembly are built into the very foundation of the leadership of the National Assembly. None of the key issues involved the political leadership of the National Assembly, the President and the Deputy, has proved or respected the legal acts of that State. The proceedings were inconsistent, non-profit, illegal, unethical, unconstitutional. We also experienced one of these behaviours yesterday, when you pushed the appointment of a minister to a meeting of the National Assembly without having to meet an explicit business condition, this is said to be the end of the discussion on the working body and the position presented. The candidate for Vice-President of the German National Assembly has thus supported enlargement. Immediately after the illegal elections, the left-wing parliamentary majority wished for the political blood of our President, who in an unconstitutional way wanted to carry out a procedure to determine the termination of his term of office. It did not work out, but Cerar and his blind coalition and some other Members received a strong slap from the Constitutional Court. The resignation of Esdam's ambassador or Vice-President Bojana Muršič is also inconsistent, odd in fact. Due to the misuse of the budget resources of the Ruša Municipality and the lying in explaining the affair, he no longer meets the standards for the Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Municipal Council, but still meets them as an MP. Such two-faced decisions by SD’s official cannot be covered either by the interpretation that will be dealt with at the next item of the agenda. One more word about the candidate. It must be acknowledged that the SD's candidate for Vice-President of the German National Assembly was more cautious and judgmental than the entire coalition when he and his colleague Križanič voted differently and abstained from that Cerar-Brglez political execution. However, it must be said that he blocked the call for two urgent meetings of the Justice Committee, which should address the policy and developments in the judiciary. It was our request to deal with the staged proceedings against Franc Kangler and General Toneto Krković, who were in several court proceedings for no reasonable reason. Some cases have already been concluded without judgment, some have stopped, and it is obvious that no more or less proceedings have been conducted on the basis of actual facts and real suspicions of criminal services, but staged, perhaps even ordered anonymities or planted facts. The suspension or termination of proceedings without conviction for both of those citizens shows that the victims of the political justice system have been irreparable consequences that this country will never recover. The absence of a meeting of the Committee on Justice in the event of such obvious human rights violations by Krkovich and Kangler means, in fact, the same as refusing emergency medical care to the third party who is seriously injured by the savagery of a third party. No excuse, no opinion of such inhumane behavior can justify it, but let anyone write it. The National Assembly and its working bodies must carry out their tasks, regardless of who leads them and what their political beliefs are. It is likely that a person who does not give any hope that the leadership of the National Assembly will be improved and placed in constitutional, legal and business rules, which will only increase or further cement the illegality of this mandate. So the cartoon of the rule of law isn't over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u13	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate. A representative of the proposer shall have the floor. No, no, no. Then there are no reports of debate and I conclude the debate. We're moving to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Assembly shall act by secret ballot on the election of the Vice-President. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Dr Mitja Horvat, Task Force of the Modern Centre Party, mag. Bojana Muršič, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Parliamentary Group of the United Left, and Mrs Iva Dimic, New Slovenia's Group of Members – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we're moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present and 64.1 votes against. Who's in? [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Chamber shall be served to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and shall state his name and surname. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the word ZA or the word VA. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a candidate for the Vice-President will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 9.40 p.m. and will last until 9.55 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 10.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u14	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly.We are moving on to the consideration of the adjourned 28th item of the agenda, which is the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. Let me read the record. Minutes on the outcome of the vote on the candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Matjaž Germany. The vote was held at the Assembly premises today, 17 May 2016. 76 votes were distributed, 76 votes cast, 20 votes invalid, 56 votes valid, 46 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour, and 10 votes in favour. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Matjaž Germany was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members and Members. / applause/ I congratulate the newly elected Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Matjaž Germany, and wish him great success in the performance of his duties. By doing so, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will continue on Friday, 20. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I now give 10 minutes of recess and ask the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Primož Hainz, to take over the meeting. We'll continue at 10.20.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u15	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 27. On the agenda, it's a defence motion for the president of the National Assembly to be resolved. The proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly was tabled by a group of 21 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal for a discharge, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u16	It is also a very nice greeting to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of all the proposers of this agenda item. It's been 80 years since Churchill said histories: The procedure is the mother of democracy. However, the procedure requires, of course, the fragility of democracy, that laws, regulations and all other legal acts governing the work of the National Assembly be respected in a consistent manner. No shortcut is allowed. The old proverb says: “The path to hell is pressed with good intentions. ” And there is no justification for the remedy where this means an obvious breach of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Laws or Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Where it leads, if it once agrees to the logic that, because of the great goals, when you protect, I don't know, a good idea or people from themselves, it's permissible to break the procedure, we've seen in socialism, communism, fascism, Nazism and all the rest of the 20th century, some of which, unfortunately, are still in the 21st century. And there's something you need to learn from this history. The logic by which it is permissible to violate legislation by which it is permissible to break the rules of procedure or other legal acts is similar to that of logic, which has been well defined by more than 50 years old Vic Radio Yerevan, who said: "Our dear party declared a decisive fight against humanity and ate the last one yesterday. Congratulations on your victory." Unfortunately, the exact same logic was present in the National Assembly when the President of the National Assembly, on behalf of the defence against, as he said, the abuse of law, decided not to sign off on the deadlines for collecting signatures to candidates or initiators for a whole series of referendums. The President of the National Assembly does not have this right in any law. And such a decision is a clear violation of the constitutional principle of legality, which is a fundamental principle enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution and laid down in many provisions of the Constitutional Court when it comes to a fragile area of procedure and respect for human rights. The President of the National Assembly should act in exactly the opposite way in respect of the law and the rule of law. I should set a deadline, but if he actually believed that something was wrong with the initiatives, this decision should be left to the National Assembly in accordance with the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative. The closeness he has taken is clearly a violation of several principles of the Slovenian Constitution and the laws. First, the issue of effective legal protection or an effective remedy related to judicial protection. For if he had acted, as the Law of Referendum and Human Initiative had commanded him, and had left the decision to the National Assembly, then the initiators would have the opportunity to exercise effective protection of their rights in the Constitutional Court. The difference is really huge from the current situation. Why? In this case, the laws would wait for publication and any decision would be taken, since it must therefore be taken in a reasonable speedy procedure before the Constitutional Court, if it were at all at the time of the decision of the National Assembly, it would mean that it would be possible to establish the situation as it was when the initiative was taken. Now the laws are published and in force. Returning to the original state would require the Constitutional Court to abolish all published laws, which we all know is extremely unlikely because it would constitute an extremely large intervention into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, there has been severe remedial or irreparable damage to all initiators. The statement that someone called for this to be misused, as interpreted by the President of the National Assembly in some negotiations, is, of course, a statement by that individual. He can't just pass it on to all 3000 500 signatories and say that everyone who signed this has signed it with the knowledge that this is the problem. How does he know that? Who can check that out? But that's not the worst of it. The worst part is that this affects another fundamental constitutional principle. This is a principle of trust in law and law. For all those who were aware that the initiative was taking place, collecting signatures, correcting this initiative and formally making appropriate proposals for the collection of signatures, that is to say, the initiatives for the collection of signatures have been put in place, of course, can be objectively calculated as the actual situation, so the facts. What does that mean? At least two laws, which were decided by the President of the National Assembly on their own initiative without a legal basis, are such that it is very likely that, according to predictions, almost certainly anyone else would go to the gathering of signatures if they knew that such a breakdown would take place. He couldn't have known that in any way. With respect to the rule of law, such a situation could not have arisen at all. What two are these laws? We know that one of these laws has gone awry into the subject of a decision in the previous referendum, and another law has been followed by impossible legal formulations, unsustainable legal formulations that we have had here in whole debates, and new legal concepts that have been discussed in this national assembly and which are the imagination of the Government or the proponents of the same law, such as the lustful views and undesirable conquest and similar nonsense, which are divisive, which are impossible to enforce and which can only be a tool for political accounting with someone who is another opinion. And that's really what this is about. At least these two laws could certainly be the subject of collecting signatures from anyone else. In principle, this applies to everyone. And people believed in the law. This is said to have not only affected the rights of those who were instigators, regardless of any statement. So to figure out what someone's got in their head is, excuse me, metaphysics. The issue was also the right of all others who trusted in the legal order of the State of Slovenia, either that they intended to give their signature once the time limit for certified signatures had been reached, for 40,000 signatures for the request for a referendum, or that they had resigned themselves from the collection of signatures because they were gathered, it is said, there would be a collection of certified signatures when the requirements are here, we will have the right to vote. All of these were gravely violated by the constitutional principle of the right to participate in decision-making. However, we all know that at the very beginning of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 3, the second paragraph, says that power has a people and that it exercises its authority directly and in accordance with the principle of the division of power. But direct decision-making, referendum constitutional decision-making puts the Constitution first. That is why this issue is so sensitive and therefore this issue does not allow for any shortcuts on behalf of any good ideas and on behalf of no major objectives, and I do not know what else. The Constitution and the law must be respected. And that's all this is about. This, in the present case, has been gravely violated. The responsibility here is perfectly clear. This is the responsibility of the one who acted in contravention of Churchill's principle that the procedure is the mother of democracy and has taken on behalf of the great objectives a shortcut which is not admissible, which has no basis in any legal act of the State of Slovenia. There is no law, there is no rules of procedure, there is nothing to give the President of the National Assembly the right to assess whether they are, as one of the points in his letter, that there is a substantive disconnect between the laws against which referendum initiatives are being tabled and the aims, objectives and tasks of the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia. What legal act, however, gives the President of the National Assembly the right to assess this? Moreover, such an assessment is also wrong in the base. When you collect the signatures, it's about the signatures giving you the initiative. And it is not said that all these signatories are members of the union. Far from it. You can't guess the purpose of the person who signed it. One of the unions may have interpreted it this way, but it doesn't give you any right to not then realize what you explicitly imposes on you and even admit it yourself in another act. In a letter sent by the President of the National Assembly in response to the initiators, he explicitly stated that these initiatives clearly met all the formal conditions. The Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative is quite clear, but it says that if all the conditions are met, I quote, "the President of the National Assembly sets a deadline for collecting signatures". It doesn't say that he can determine whether or not he can determine. It specifies what it means to determine, it has no manoeuvre space. Once again, I say that the law itself provides for the possibility that if anything were wrong, that in such a case the National Assembly could decide and not sign a referendum. But this is the right of the National Assembly as a whole, against which the law then provides for an effective remedy and judicial protection, a concrete possibility of appeal to the Constitutional Court, which considers such a complaint as a matter of priority. This is what the president of the National Assembly took away from all of this. What does this practice mean in practice? Article 257 of the Penal Code states that a person who acquires a right which he does not have, and thereby infringes on the rights of other persons, in particular, once again, this applies to an extremely sensitive area of procedure and the protection of human rights, commits an offence of abuse of an official position or official rights and is liable for it. In a given case, it's obvious. None of the purposes justify a shortcut with good intentions that have been used. I'm surprised at all the lawyers who rushed to attach themselves to the president of the National Assembly, but apparently the money works wonders why they ignored this problem. Because this problem is the foundation of democracy. If once allowed for the best of intentions, if you want, anyone can pick up a shortcut that performs a function, let alone if the President of the National Assembly does so, then democracy is over, then such a society is called a totalitarian society. More. Article 258. speaks also of undeclared work at work. And if someone who specifically orders him to do something doesn't do it, it's an unscrupulous job. And the President of the National Assembly would, under the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, when it is obvious that he himself wrote it down, fulfil all the legal conditions, the formal conditions for the invitation to tender, he would also be obliged to sign those deadlines. He didn't do it. However, if he felt that something was wrong, he should suggest to the National Assembly that he decide. Nor did he, which means that he acted unfaithfully. And this is a clear violation of Article 258, which lays down the offence of the bride's work in the service. Both, not just one. The fact is that we have opened a chapter in Slovenia that is not really an honor to anyone. Slovenia is becoming a different society, as it was before, because such temptations have already been experienced in the past. However, if the President of the National Assembly was so confident and he is convinced that this was an abuse, then I will make him a concrete proposal: let's sit together again and change the constitution again and go in the direction of the Swiss model referendum, which completely distinguishes the legislative process from the referendum procedure. And no one will ever again be able to conclude in any way that it is the use of a referendum to obstruct the legislative process or anything like that. In this case, the people will have power, we will get a new democratic quality, consistently implemented, at the same time we will avoid all such situations, and the President of the National Assembly will try to take a shortcut in history beyond the law against the rule of law of the state of Slovenia. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u17	Mr Grims [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u18	which is why I should resign, but if it does not, we will vote in favour of its resolution in the SDS. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u19	To present my opinion, I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u20	Mr Vice-President, distinguished fellow Members of the SDS, who, for the second time, relieve me of the position of President of the National Assembly, the viewers and the viewers who may be watching this transfer, the honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I am pleased to be able to respond to today's session to a whole series of deceptions, instigations and non-truths that you have designed against me in your proposal for discharge from the presidency of the National Assembly. The answer will be longer, so I am now applying for the start of the debate between Members and Members if it is too long to present my opinion on the proposal for a discharge. I thank the SDS Group for the opportunity to tell them publicly in response what I am unable to do in the capacity of the President of the National Assembly, because I have to refrain, because of the interests of the State, citizens and citizens and at the same time representing the National Assembly, from dealing mainly with your substantive and procedural abuses at the level of functioning of the national working bodies of the National Assembly, the regular and extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and the international functioning of the National Assembly. You really are masters of abuse and profanity, practically anything and anyone you're sent to. That's why it's an honor to be in your way. As I told you for the first time in this place, I will not stand down and be silenced. I hope that mine will explain enough to you that, in the end, you, your respected and valued colleagues and colleagues from the SDS, will vote against my discharge or withdraw it. That would be the only thing consistent with the common sense that seems to have left part of the political space entirely. Let me say that I have been expecting a proposal for my resolution since the end of January. That is when the corridors began to say that they would like to put forward a proposal for my resolution, mainly with the aim of exhaustion, what you are doing with your entire mandate so far. It is a game under the belt when, with its many procedural and substantive abuses, attempts to undermine the stability of power, cow trades, such profanity abroad, your colleagues and colleagues from the European People's Party must blush on your behalf and apologize for your disrespect for the basics of parliamentaryism in the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe and so on, as you are going on in this mandate, you are tiring this national assembly and the Slovenian public. The last attempt at abuse, with a clear aim of exhaustion, was called for this morning by the 1st continuation of the 18th urgent session of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and the equal opportunity to which I was invited. So the continuation of the session, which you deliberately convened between my several months in advance of an agreed and well-known visit to Germany at the invitation of the President of the German Federal Parliament, Dr Norbert Lammert. In addition to my failure to adhere to your illegal principle, which is known in the Western Balkans as 'kady sued, kadija sued', let it be clear there is something else, I will always say fascism everywhere. Our country and the European Union have been created and will remain only as a result of the fight against fascism and Nazism, but also of the fight against the abuse of communism. Throughout the term of office or reference of this National Assembly, your attempt to exhaust and selectively invoke the rights that take away any responsibilities of its own shows that you deliberately do not wish to propose to the Vice-President of the National Assembly and thus cause me to spend time alone with the Vice-President so that the work of the National Assembly can take place on an ongoing basis. No, no, you don't have to insinuate what's so close to you that I get any extra extra extra for this. I'm not getting anything, don't worry. The constitutional lawyers didn't get anything either. But let's go in line to answer your allegations and not waste my time needlessly. First of all, my general definition of your proposal. First time. The proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly is a political action that can only be answered politically. Political decision on the proposal will also be taken. So, politically, everything I'm about to say and anything I can say in dealing with this item on the agenda. The courts and, in particular, the Constitutional Court are present for legal arguments. If and when I am invited to do so, I will, of course, submit additional legal arguments to the person in charge, if necessary, in addition to those by which I justified my decision to the proposer to collect signatures for the invitation to a referendum for the six laws adopted by the National Assembly. Another time. I have taken a decision not to sign the time limit on the basis of the Constitution to protect the Institute of the Referendum as President of the National Assembly from abuse. It is therefore a matter of respect for the Constitution, in particular for the protection of parliamentary democracy and the rule of law against political blackmail and abuse of the right to a referendum contrary to the purpose for which our constitutional order provides. Third time. This is my most difficult decision in this function, which I have taken after consulting the most prominent constitutional lawyers and former judges of the Constitutional Court and on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The objective facts of the abuse of the right to referendum are so clear in this case and in the sky that my different conduct would also mean my responsibility for this and also for this and all future abuses of the right to referendums. The responsibility of my conduct in the event of abuse of the right to referendum has already been pointed out by the Constitutional Court by the previous Presidents of the National Assembly. I'm moving on to the specifics of the answer. To make it easier for you to follow, I will first give you parts of your proposal and then my answer. Claim, quote: "Even if constitutionally justified reasons actually exist – then in brackets – (as shown below), there should continue to be a legal basis for the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide and stop the collection of signatures." My answer. It's interesting that you know that there are no legitimate reasons. I wonder how you know that. How do you know more than constitutional lawyers who made a positive statement about my decision? Are you already in office of the Constitutional Court, even above it, or at least above the Constitution? Do you think you interpret constitutionally justified reasons? No, no. These are some other times, when the principle of "kadia sued," the kadia court acted as a political authority. It saddens me that you have not seen that Slovenia has been gone for at least 25 years in these times. Read article 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which reads: "Slovenia is a democratic republic." In doing so, the word Republic means that we must all literally respect the Constitution. And Article 2, which reads: "Slovenia is a legal and social state." Your statements show that you do not respect democracy or the rule of law. I tend to think that you don't respect anything. If not, we wouldn't be putting ourselves as a political party in an interpreter's constitution. Or even above it. Pika. Let's move on. Second reference. You claim: "The power of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which was designed by Dr. Milan Brglez in a specific case, is not laid down in any act and also constitutes an explicit violation of the tenth indent of Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia may carry out tasks in accordance with the Constitution and with the law and the Rules of Procedure, not tasks which are not specified there." My answer, you read after yourself. You write, "The Constitution." Yes, I have decided in accordance with the Constitution." This is above all: over the rules of procedure, laws, sub-legal acts and over international treaties. The constitution. It is probably not close to you because, in view of your discussions in this National Assembly, there must be too much weight for respect for all human rights, but I did not write it myself. And you were among those who wrote it. And you don't want to respect her and stand up to her. Third indent. You claim: "Neither in the letter from Dr. Milan Brglez, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, nor in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service can it be seen which human rights should be affected by referendum initiatives and should therefore, on the basis of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, be allowed to intervene in the right to referendum." My answer. Allow me a brief tour into human rights theory. These, among other things, are indivisible. Our Constitution clearly sets out which human rights it protects, and it also protects all those who are not explicitly mentioned in it. I ask you kindly not to interfere with human rights when it benefits you, or else you are acting in a manner that is evident on behalf of and in the harm of the State against them. You and your civil society instruments protest before the courts and refer Slovenian courts as felons. You are evaluating the President of the National Assembly as a fascist, self-reliant, communist, doctor of natural law, but at the same time in the past you requested a referendum on deleted persons. And not one of them, more of them. The referendum on the subject of which the European Court of Human Rights has clearly identified as a violation of fundamental human rights. You might be ashamed to abuse human rights for political purposes. Human rights have emerged over the centuries as a progressive result of the development and struggle for mankind. And you're putting yourself in their defenses. Please, human rights are too serious and too important a thing to get you involved with them as if you were loved! Fourth, "In the application of the concept of abuse of rights, Dr. Milan Brglez refers to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, No 413/98 of 25 May 2000, which cannot be used in this case." My answer. Really? But when should a provision be applied and when should it not be applied, the SDS shall decide? I didn't know. Nor do I rely solely on this decision of the Constitutional Court. Why you did not also mention the decision of the Constitutional Court, the number 4/4 of 17 June 2004, which you would probably prefer to forget. You can see that you don't understand or either. Maybe you don't want to understand the rule of law and the rule of law that this is foreign to you. That you've never really accepted it and internalized it. The decision of the Constitutional Court does not apply when anyone wants to, but always, you understand, always respect and apply. Everything else is an abuse of the law. Unfortunately, you are always the best at abuse of law because now that such abuse of the right to referendum has taken place, you have decided that you will help other abusers again. Without any self-limitation of their rights with the rights of others. But as we say, these are the methods of some other times. These began in 1933 and ended, if you forgot, in 1945. Fifth quote. You claim: "The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in its 90th Article, explicitly stipulates when a referendum may be invoked for reasons expressly laid down in the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, only in such a way that it is not permissible for the referendum to be negotiated on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, on the laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory duties, and on the law to be adopted for the implementation of the State budget, on the laws on the ratification of international treaties, on laws that abolish the anti-constitutionality of human rights and fundamental freedoms or on other non-constitutionalities." My answer. Have you ever read this article and perhaps understood it? It says "referendum." But it doesn't say "gathering 40,000 signatures for the referendum." Do you understand the difference? When you read each article of the Constitution for yourself and not everything in a relationship and in its entirety, you are looking for legal exceptions and holes so that your constitutions and other legislation do not have to be respected in accordance with the purpose that has been written down. You further claim: "In his conduct, Dr. Milan Brglez, as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, has apparently intervened in the right of 40,000 voters and voters to show their support for the referendum on the rejection of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Law on the Implementation of the Customs Law of the European Union. The denial of the right under Articles 44 and 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been done in a way that arbitrarily, speculatively and without any consequences in the course of the law of certain criteria and criteria has assessed the conduct of the initiators to the referendum, in violation of Article 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the actions of the State authorities must only be such as are based on law or legal provision." My answer. First time. I didn't go for any right of 40,000 voters because there are no signatures. Another time. Have you read the title of the chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which contains Article 153? The title of the chapter is Constitutionality and Legality. Constituency. Again, something that is not close to you, and it grieves me the most, even though your party's father-in-law, Dr. Jože Pučnik, has given much importance to the constitution and its conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u21	Dr. Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u22	I'm finishing at this point, and I'm going to continue on as I signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally. Here you go. No, no, no. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. Good. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have a bit of a difficult assignment. It's a difficult task because I want to say some things very clearly and loudly to you. I read in the papers that you're crying and moaning about how we want to lynch you, in the newspapers I'm reading, and even now I've heard you get insulted and so forth. So I'm going to try to frame this performance of mine into some normal performance that will set you up with a very clean mirror. It's gonna be a clear mirror, so it's something. You've read your performance, I suppose you'll read it further. I usually don't read any texts when I'm sure of my views or my views. He's got a little reminder ahead of him, and that's what I'm getting out of. Now I'll tell you what. We will support your resolution. Otherwise, the next thing you have to say. You already said at the start that Mrs Irgle's committee, the Commission for Petitions has chosen a time when you were not here in the National Assembly, but in Germany and you were unable to attend. Did something leave you? This morning, at 7:30 a.m., there was a meeting where we also invited you, not in Germany today, but in your office watching TV what we're going to say; I suppose that's true. We could come in and face arguments. Otherwise, your habit is exactly the same as that of a coalition to escape when there are no arguments. You couldn't escape from this hall, even though I believe you'd prefer it because people see it. Look, there are many meetings of Mrs Irgle, where the coalition simply escapes the truth because there is no argument. I'm not going to this case of yours, where they also escaped from the hall, but, like, Korean boys. Look, they've been stalling for an hour, and they've convinced us not to discuss this, human rights violations, child rights, and I don't know what. One hour! One hour later, they fled the hall under cover of obstruction. And the government said, "We can't do anything, we'll just say it in a closed session." But in a closed session, it happened — what? It took a few minutes, the secretary of state said she had no argument that she had no idea what it was. So, run away from the truth. And so is the coalition way. It's a different form of opposition. You know very well how Mr Matić envisioned the lynching of Mr Janša and SDS in the case of Twitter. Of course, he didn't think we'd be there to obstruct him. We came there and defended our views. The coalition was silent, Mr Matić probably prayed that the end of this disgrace would be in front of the cameras as soon as possible. You see, this is the difference between the coalition and the opposition – if you have arguments, come and tell them, and that's it. But the situation in your case, of course, is not like that. Look, it's the clear purpose of the coalition, sometimes to hide things. And even in your case, at least as far as the Eva Irgle Commission is concerned, it is hiding from the truth. You can't hide this truth here. I have some reality to tell you. On May 1st or around May 1st, you decided not to sign the deadline for collecting signatures. The referendum legislation is indeed somewhat different, and constitutional norms in this area have changed, but no President of the National Assembly has made such a decision since 1991. None. You're not in April either. Even in the case of the police who collected the signatures, you did not refuse to collect the signatures. Even in the case of these migrant workers in April, you did not do as you did on 1 May. You can refer to anything, anything, even the Secretary-General of the United Nations, if you like, but the fact remains: the law is clear, the President of the National Assembly sets a deadline for collecting signatures. You have no legal right to judge this procedure in any way. Only the Ministry of the Interior shall have the right to verify whether or not the signatures are in order, in the form prescribed, in a manner and so on. And the President of the National Assembly will sign off. That's what the law says. And nothing else, there is no other option for the President of the National Assembly. You don't. You did it. Such a decision is a unique decision that has not yet been made by anyone or in such a harsh manner no one has violated the law. Look, the situation is relatively clear. So you should be the one to write the matter down, and you should write down the deadlines for collecting signatures. But you did what? I want to explain two important moves. Firstly, the media today bombard us with how most of the Slovenian legal profession is in a position such as the President of the National Assembly, and as you have done, so most of the legal profession supports you. Look, this is a lie. That's not true. It is a myth, it is a product of Slovenian media and you. That's not true at all. You are supported by four constitutional lawyers, but one is against you. This is not the majority of the Slovenian legal profession. Slovenia has about 200 Doctors of Science or Masters and others who teach or teach in several law schools. Slovenia has a series of former constitutional judges, Slovenia has several thousand lawyers, and you are talking about the majority of four legal judges. That's not the majority. That's not the majority. Also in 2014, let me remind you that in your opinion, most of the Slovenian legal profession supported your decision, not only yours, but also all other coalition members, that Janez Janša should be given a mandate. That was five mercenaries who said they worked for nothing. I appointed them to go trap cows in Šmarje near Jelšah after the Constitutional Court annulled the case. You all bombed us on the basis of the positions of the Slovenian legal profession. You have acted unlawfully, you have acted unconstitutionally, as the Constitutional Court has told you. Is that right? You can't deny that fact. You just can't deny that fact. All of you have acted unlawfully. That's another thing. The media bombed us – they help you, of course, because it's logical, because they're yours – with another terrible lie. They said, "Have you seen, this is the man who took responsibility, this is one of the few politicians since 1991 who took responsibility for his decision." What a truth. If you took responsibility for your decisions, you'd say the following, you'd step in front of these microphones, in front of the cameras, and say, "I've made a decision like that, if the Constitutional Court cancels this, I'll disappear from politics and hide in one roommate at the FDV." That would be really good if we did. That's how we'd take responsibility. So you didn't take responsibility. You have agreed with Mr Cerar what will happen if the Constitutional Court annuls your decision. And Mr Cerar said in advance that regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision, he will support you. You said, "My responsibility is tied to 46 Members of Parliament." Let's translate this into the Pohorian language, where we're both at home, from Zreč. I'll tell you at home that you've made sure you don't have to give up. So you didn't take responsibility. It is logical that your Members will support you in such a case. But it's illogical for all of you to remain coalition. Then the key will be in the hands of SD, Desus, which you will be able to say, goodbye to Mr. Brglez. But if you don't say it, then you look at your wallet and you look at your salary. We'll see what happens. So it's not about taking responsibility, it's about one pretty nasty thing to say, I've taken responsibility, and you're actually protecting your position. But if the Constitutional Court annuls the case, I expect it to be annulled, then the situation is relatively clear. Mr President, you should go, not sit up there. That would be taking responsibility. But you don't do that. Let's go to Zreč, there we both went home, there we both went to elementary school, you guys a little later, I'm a little early, there's also a church, I went there a little bit more orderly, and you, I don't know if you are or not, but whatever, look what you said. Now I can't insult you, I won't hurt you, but let's see. You said about the evening two days ago, I'm going to read this now so I don't get confused: "Interest is protected by negotiation and not by blackmail." This sentence was intended for migrant workers or signatories to these proposals for referendums. Next, what you said was, "But what is often forgotten is that the law that affected migrant workers was adopted in 2006 during the Janša government." But you see him, you son of a bitch, and we got him, Jancho. Isn't it great? It's all his fault, and then it's his fault. He's a bastard, we don't have anything, according to Mr. Brglez. Towards the end of the interview, I will read this too, and you say, "That's why they are," so migrant workers, "as I have repeatedly urged them to sit at the negotiating table and protect their interests. Not by blocking their country and our country, but by negotiating amendments to the Income Act. Keyly by these provisions, which they themselves most object to, and do not forget when this law was passed. It's 2006. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was led by Mr Janez Janša and the President of the JZ was Mr France Cukjat." Those are your words. That's great, Mr. President. I don't know. That's your story now. That's what you said, that's your story, that's cheating, that's not true. In the elementary school in the Glee Club, they told me it wasn't nice to lie, that it was ugly, that you shouldn't lie. It's 50 meters away from the church, and they say it's a sin to lie. I don't know if you went there or not, but you sure did go to school, and they sure told you lying wasn't nice. That's what I believe. Now let us look at the truth, look at the truth that you have so wronged or lied to. The law you are referring to was adopted at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 16 December 2003. Repeat, 16 December 2003. Thus, he was adopted at the 35th meeting on 23 March 2004. In Article 5, the law brought all these problems to migrant workers and said in Article 153 that it would apply on 1 January 2005. Logically, adopted in March 2004, it will enter into force in January 2005, as the tax industry will also be easier to mill in the calendar year. It's logical or not. However, the first income decisions under this Act come to 2006 at the addresses of migrant workers. That's the truth. Do you see now? On the date of the adoption of this law in March 2004, Janez Janša could have dreamed or wished to become Prime Minister. However, he had no idea that he would be a member of the National Assembly, but that the President would be even less. You're a bit of a liar. It's not an attack on you, it's not an insult to you, I can't lie to you otherwise than a lie. A lie is a lie. It's not nice to lie. You too are going to the chair, Mr President, if you are going for protocol reasons, okay, it's nice to go, many of you haven't come before you, but if you're faithful, and you're going to the famour as soon as possible and you're going to confess as soon as possible, the better. You can do it so incognito. But what I'm trying to say is that it's unacceptable for you to lie to the public about the position of President of the National Assembly in this way. So Janez Janša and SDS are to blame for adopting such a law. And now I've shown you with dates and numbers that you're wrong. You're wrong. And whatever screams continue, because I know this is going to happen, oh, I don't know, to the state of law and so on and so forth. All the law and the rule of law you just put on your hat, and you, President, and all those who are from there illegally, illegally, incoherently taking on the mandate of Janez Janša. Yeah, that's it. It's not gonna work. So, Mr President, I'll be in touch, I expect my colleagues to give me some time. But I've told you many times that you're the worst president of the National Assembly, I've told you publicly. I have not seen such anarchy in this National Assembly since 2000. Before that, she probably wasn't. The way you use it in your work to the coalition and to the opposition, it's biased, it's impossible, it's incorrect, it's inhumane, I won't use any other terms. You deserve to leave this job without what you've done without it. That's a lot more than that. So we will support your resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I will actually read the position of a member of the group, and I will have my debate when the time is set for this. On 10 May, representatives of migrant workers lodged a constitutional complaint with the Constitutional Court against the decision of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, not to set a deadline for the collection of signatures for the invitation to tender for a referendum on six recently adopted laws. These six laws have also introduced an initiative to assess constitutionality and a proposal to suspend their implementation temporarily. In addition to these constitutional assessments, they require the adoption of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative decades ago. The SDS Group had already submitted a request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Brglez, a week earlier, because they believed that it had misused its role to achieve anti-constitutional political objectives. By rejecting the initiatives of the Migrant Workers' Union to collect signatures for the referendum on six laws, Dr. Brglez is supposed to deliberately violate the powers, break the basic constitutional arrangements and deny the people the right to a referendum. Brglez's rejection of initiatives is, following a new totalitarian reflection from past times, under slogans, which is not the only case of obvious denial of constitutional provisions and grave violations of human rights and freedoms, members of the SDS have also written in an initiative for the resolution of fascists under the terms of Dr. Brglez, as Dr. Brglez referred to the public as a prominent representative of the Committee 2014. It is clear that they share the same opinion in the Migrant Workers' Union, for their explanation of why they are referring to the Constitutional Court is almost identical to the SDS' explanation for the discharge of the President of Parliament. But what did Dr. Brglez really do? Nothing as scary as they say. On the contrary. As he explained, he prevented the obvious abuse of the right to referendum, which could completely block the adoption of laws in the National Assembly, which would indeed mean the destruction of the constitutional foundations of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also agreed by the vast majority of constitutional experts, including those who are on the right hand side. Let me give you an opinion of an expert who has difficulty reading politics, Matevža Krivica. Thus he wrote: "The use of referendum brakes against purely third laws, which have nothing to do with their problems, only because of the opposition of the Government, which may mean harm to those whose problems those laws regulate, by the labour unions working in Austria, is a direct school case of abuse of rights given for a particular purpose, and you use it in clear contradiction with this purpose. And this union didn't even hide it, so deep down, we all believe that in the fight for their rights all resources are allowed, even unlawful. In his decision, Dr Brglez also relied on the decision of the 2000 Constitutional Court, which stated that the rule of law did not allow the exercise or exercise of a right contrary to the purpose for which it was established. In this case, it is an abuse of justice that cannot enjoy legal protection. The abuse of the right to referendum must be prevented." So are lawyers. The migrant workers' union thus benefited from abuse. After all, they themselves said that their goal was not to referendums, but to force the government to accept their union demands. The main lower tax is only for them and not, as expected, the same for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The benefits of lower taxes require only themselves, which would be unfair to all other citizens of our country. If there is a sensitive issue, this is a very sensitive matter in tax laws for every individual living in the country. This is what they intend to come up with by blocking laws that have nothing to do with it. The fact that this is an abuse also proves that constitutional judgements do not require clearly controversial tax laws, but rather some random laws. However, in one point, the candidates for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly are right. For he holds that it is not explicitly written anywhere that such and other abuses are prohibited. Probably because, in writing the Constitution and the referendum law, no one apparently even thought that the institute of the referendum would ever be used for blackmail, but that is what is happening. So the question is how to change the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative so that this would no longer happen. Much more productive and, ultimately, fair to the President of Parliament, who set his back to prevent obvious abuses, it would be a problem for everyone to find appropriate changes to the law together, because with the possible resolution of Dr. Brglez, the problem would not be solved. The imperfection of marriage would remain, and with it the possibility of its abuse. Let me remind you, the Constitutional Law has ordered the National Assembly to bring the referendum law into line with the Constitution in a year. In a few days, three years will pass since this constitutional amendment was adopted. At the April regular session of the National Assembly, we had a harmonised Law on Referendum and Human Initiative on the table with the Constitution. It must be said that the amendments and additions to the bill have been prepared for a long time, both on the part of the professional and interested public and on the part of the policy, which has had sufficient time to think seriously about the necessity, the sense of change, but unfortunately we have not been able to reach agreement with the opposition groups in the National Assembly. Despite the fact that it is a very important law, the support of Members and Members, after many of the opposition's coordination with the Ministry of Public Administration, has not found a common language. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, we wanted to come up with common solutions at this point. In particular, we expected Members and Members of the SDS, who were also proposing amendments to the Constitution, to take a responsible decision, vote and confirm the amendment of this law. They didn't. The SDS did not give us any valid reasons why we would not support the law. Today, however, we are faced with a new problem – the abuse of referendum initiatives, which is why in the DeSUS Group of Members we expect Members and Members of the SDS to participate constructively in the amendment of legislation and to make urgent changes to the law together. This is not the last thing the constitutional law obliges us to do. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that in the first place our task is to bring this law into line with the Constitution and to record some possible abuses, not to change the President of Parliament, who has pointed out this. However, the Constitutional Court should decide on the correctness of its decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u28	Vice-President, Honourable President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! Today we are already witnessing another proposal for the discharge of Dr Milan Brglez from the post of President of the National Assembly in this mandate. If these same signatories, with the first proposal, have given themselves the role of an interpreter for the presidents of the statements he made in his interview with the Youth officer, this time they have found a political mask for the judge, the interpreter of the legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, those who, in the name of legality and above all legal responsibility, say what is right and what is wrong. He goes, sir, for his own political marketing, accompanied by a kind of political agenda. So that there will be no unnecessary dilemmas or doubts, at the outset, I would like to say to my fellow Members and colleagues that we will reject the proposal for a solution by all six votes. We are convinced that such a debate and decision on this proposal is unnecessary, but above all they will not contribute to the key, and this is a successful solution to the problem of taxation of migrant workers. In the proposal under consideration, there are no obstacles to the proposal, but even less to the well-intentioned consideration of the long-term consequences of such work on the content of issues related to their conduct. After all, this time, ladies and gentlemen, there is no obstacle to the beating of its own political responsibility in relation to the office of the President of the National Assembly, to the institution. This has been stated by the applicants on several occasions, not only through the proposals for a solution, which now serve as their permanent repertoire of political marketing, but only one more act, when content and procedure, is now taken by the Constitution as a tool of its own self-promotion. This time, the proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, has also been taken from the context of the content that led to the situation when the President, Dr Brglez, decided not to sign a referendum. The migrant workers' union has introduced a series of referendum initiatives for laws that have little in common with the content of their problem. Whether or not they have the right to submit a referendum initiative, today is not the first question raised by the proposer. It is more of a claim that the applicants have been legitimized by this proposal than those who have been called for an opinion on behalf of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the only ones and no one else. We all probably agree that migrant workers with referendum initiatives have expressed, if you like, their plight on the issue of double taxation in some way. Of course, we can talk about the abuse of referendum law. We can discuss more appropriate steps to address this issue, and we can also make our legislative proposals, but it is not this national assembly of laboratories in which we will place individual constitutional provisions on the scale and, through our own party kaleidoscope, weigh, criteria and translate our findings into what we want to achieve. And that's exactly what the proposer does. At the decision of the President of the National Assembly on the referendum initiatives, the Social Democrats made it clear that with this, the President of the National Assembly, Dr Brglez, took on a great deal of political and legal responsibility, but these two responsibilities have their own order, which follows. Following an explanation of the proposal, political responsibility lies before the law, as the proponents say, which makes no sense even less of a logic. In this case, political responsibility must be followed by legal but not flat-rate assessments of the proposer. Such discussions, however, cannot strengthen the necessary responsibilities that we have toward people in the first place. They serve more to meet quotas for politically motivated discredits. And unfortunately, this proposal belongs to this category. Today, instead of the primary issue of the Migrant Workers' Union, which is probably not related to the law implementing EU customs legislation, the amendment of the law on legal fees, protection of cultural heritage, the National Assembly will be working with itself again. As has already been said, the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, has taken on his own responsibility in his decision, and the assessment of this responsibility is not the subject of a proposal for a discharge which we will not support in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you, Vice President. In this mandate, as we have heard several times today, this is the second time we are considering a proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly. This time it is the reason why the SDS requires its resolution, its decision not to call a deadline for the collection of signatures for the referendums. The basic reason for today's consideration of this proposal for a discharge does not actually concern the President of the National Assembly. The key reason why there was even a mass investment in the call for a referendum and, consequently, the President's decision concerns the Government. If the Government could participate in an interested and professional public and could respect at least the minimum levels of dialogue with the civil public, the President's decision probably would not have been taken. We would not have this item on the agenda and we would not have the six initiatives put in place to call for a referendum. The coalition has even written an open dialogue with civil society to eliminate anomalies through the mutual cooperation of active citizens as a basic starting point in the coalition agreement, but the realization of this commitment does not clearly mean much to the Government and not to the coalition in the National Assembly. Since the government and the coalition were not prepared to listen to migrant workers, we are today where we are. Following requests, calls and requests that remained to be heard, they decided on some form of a sentence, in fact for civil disobedience, if you would like. It is true, however, that the means to achieve their goal have not been the most prudent choice. While we believe in the United Left that migrant workers are not discriminated against, we can certainly say that they are victims of a lack of tax system. And in this case, the biggest problem is the Institute of Self-Login. If I do a little caricature, it's intended for those taxpayers who avoid paying the tax, and they eventually change their minds because they know they'll be discovered sooner or later. Migrant workers, at least for the most part, are not part of this group. But they're victims of bad legislation. There is, in our view, a solution to this problem. If the debtor fulfils the conditions of relief, it should be recognised as a relief. The appropriate penalty for delay is late interest or fine, but not withdrawal of relief. So the problem is definitely a solution, only the government should put a little more effort into it. But cooperation and public consultation with this government are simply not a priority. In view of the number of comments not taken into account, given the number of rules in which the public is completely excluded and the number of bad solutions adopted by the coalition in this mandate, it is in fact surprising that no substantive initiative for the referendum has been tabled. The relation of the United Left to the referendum is, of course, clear – the referendum is one of the most important institutions, it is essential to carry out direct democracy. In our view, citizens and citizens could be repeatedly asked for an opinion on key solutions. Unfortunately, it is only for us to decide, as past events have shown, at a referendum without any major problems or complications, whether or not we will grant some minorities the same rights as most do. Instead of the government and coalition working to find solutions that will encourage citizens and citizens to participate in public affairs, instead of strengthening democratic institutions and effectively allowing citizens and citizens to influence key decisions, decisions and solutions go in the last few years in a diametrically opposite direction. The reckless, unnecessary and totally inappropriate amendment to Article 90 of the Constitution has proved to be even more harmful in practice than it was at the time of its adoption. The proposal for a law on referendum and human initiative, which was fortunately not adopted, would even make this situation worse. Not to the government and not to the coalition, therefore, the dialogue with civil society is not close and in some way has been waning all the time. For a consultation referendum on secret agreements, which will have extremely harmful consequences if adopted, for example, the Government and the coalition do not want to hear. And that's another problem. In the United Left, we agree that there has been some kind of abuse of the Institute of Referendum in the case of initiatives put forward. We agree that it is most likely the best solution to be decided by the Constitutional Court. But we are opposed to the very way the President used it. By choosing not to simply set a time limit for collecting signatures, he created a precedent that could lead to serious abuses in the future. Not only is it a completely arbitrary decision by one person, but it is also a procedure that does not provide the initiators with adequate legal protection. One of those prominent lawyers who attended the meeting pointed to this too. The decision taken by the President of the National Assembly should therefore be taken by the National Assembly, as it has always been to this day. Both decisions of the Constitutional Court, referred to by the President in the notice, concerned the act of the National Assembly and not its President. And in this part of the decision we cannot support. First, because it creates a dangerous precedent, secondly, because it does not give clearly defined and established legal protection to the initiators, and thirdly, because in such a case the laws have been promulgated even before the decision of the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court of Referendum allowed, there could be irreparable consequences. However, we believe that it is too early to discuss the solution proposal, so today we will not support the proposal. However, after the decision of the Constitutional Court, we are likely to have the opportunity to rule on this again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished President Milan Brglez! Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that in Slovenia it has authority of the people, executes it in a direct way – by referendum or in a indirect way – by elections. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, did not have a legal basis for refusing referendum proceedings. Incentives of the referendum, the Migrant Workers' Union, formally tabled the referendum initiative. And that's an indisputable fact. Whether he did the right thing or not, let the court, the Constitutional Court, decide definitively. In New Slovenia, we believe that politics cannot judge whether the President of the National Assembly acted in accordance with the legislation or the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since this is the responsibility of the court. Nor can the President of the National Assembly judge whether this was the case in the case of a referendum initiative for the abuse of justice. If the Constitutional Court does not confirm the decisions of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, it will have to take full responsibility. How is responsibility taken? In Nova Slovenija, we expect the President of the National Assembly to resign irrevocably in this case. Taking responsibility is not waiting for a vote, for taking responsibility is not waiting for 46 votes, but an irrevocable withdrawal from office, according to our assessment. Remember that some coalition members have also said in their first response that, Mr President of the National Assembly, you will have great difficulties if the court does not follow your decision. In New Slovenia we agree that no one has the right to abuse. In the event of the referendum initiatives of the Migrant Workers' Union for the Abuse of Rights, Member Milan Brglez decided. The Institute of the Referendum is such an important institute that one Member simply cannot decide on this. If it was an abuse of justice, let the Constitutional Court decide. Why was there an assessment of the abuse of justice? Because of the embarrassing statements made by individual members of the Migrant Workers' Union? The laws are written for everyone, the government in the country has the people. What if this union had a good pir and good, as did the president of the National Assembly, legal experts, and we were ready to go to a press conference, with better rhetoric, with more legal language, to justify a referendum initiative — what then? Or would you say, "Yeah, they're right. It's not about the abuse of justice." Did the Radio Student also abuse the right when he took the initiative for a referendum on the Defence Act, which was also supported by Nova Slovenije and we realized that it was time for our nails and we were afraid that the law would be put into effect in the future? What about then? Wasn't it an abuse of justice at the time? The fact is, if we look at the reasons for this complication at all, we need to find that the Government has practically had no time to take up the Apaca Civil Initiative, which Mr Dusan Cvetko, who has now transformed into a Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia, led at the time. If there were more political will in the National Assembly and even in the Government, in the coalition, and the solutions of New Slovenia, which we have already proposed many times, would not have been such problems. Let me remind you. New Slovenia's solutions were as follows. As early as 2012 on the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, we proposed that we write down the requirement that those who take the initiative for the referendum should gather, first of all, we have written down 10,000 certified signatures, and that after the President of the National Assembly has signed 30 thousand more signatures. At that time, of course, we did not receive support from the opposition at the time, and we needed their votes for a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. Maybe 10,000 is too high a number, maybe it would be the optimal and the most logical number of 5,000. Why 5,000? Because if citizens want to bring the law into the national assembly procedure, they need to collect 5,000 certified signatures. And if a marriage with a referendum initiative is to be denied, then they should also collect 5,000 certified signatures. This is one of the solutions. The second solution is that in the Income Act we increase the overall relief to EUR 7 000, which we have just done in New Slovenia. This would improve the disastrous relationship between gross and net wages, one of the worst in the European Union in Slovenia. On the other hand, only as a by-product of this solution would they save migrant workers who work in Austria and have relatively high annual income for the Slovenian situation. Today, we have also heard about this pay phone the wrong terminology for double taxation. It's not about double taxation. And we in New Slovenia claim that every citizen, every resident, has to pay taxes. We have a European Union, we have a monetary union, we have an economic union, we have an energy union. I guess we'll never have a tax union. And in a way we should listen to these close to 20,000 of our citizens working in Austria, where there is a very favourable tax environment. In this place I would also like to say the following, because the facts are spreading and there are many times that Nova Slovenija, yes, like the SDS, is suitable to appear on us with a finger, hey, it is your fault. And even the late minister, Dr. Andre Bajuk, some, including the media, don't give peace. I watched and heard that it was our coalition and the finance minister, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, who imposed a tax on so-called world income. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is different. Maybe it hurts. I don't want to hurt anyone. On 14 May 2004, when we were 14 days members of the EU, Dr. Janez Drnovšek signed the Act on Income, Official Gazette 54, 20. May 2014 This law was passed by the Tonet Tropa Coalition, the Prime Minister of the Government was Tone Rop and the Finance Minister was, you will not believe, Dr Dusan Maramor. [[..]] Article 5 on the scope of the tax liability states: "The resident and resident is obliged to pay income from all incomes that have a source in the Republic of Slovenia and from all incomes that have a source outside Slovenia, i.e. the so-called world income." It's just that we all get to know the truth. Today in New Slovenia we also ask ourselves the question of legal protection of the initiators. All right, that famous lawyers supported Dr. Milan Brglez's decision, then, of course, announcing these laws. They also supported the President of the Republic for the announcement. But even so known legal names, which I personally value, are not a court of law. I understand that the Constitutional Court will not leave politicians or anyone else to their kindergarten, but it will decide itself. And thank God it's decided. What will decide will be respected in New Slovenia. Let me finish. We Members of New Slovenia will abstain from voting this time. Not because in Novi Slovenija we would support the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, in his decision to ban the referendum, but because we believe that the court in this case is the institution that has to judge whether his conduct was right or wrong. If it was not correct, then our fellow Member, the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, must take responsibility. What does that mean? That means irrevocable resignation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. I'll start with an introduction, Andrew Carnegie says a great man shows his greatness in the way he deals with small people. This is what we witness in our society. This kind of behavior started a long time ago. We had one part of it yesterday. The President of the National Assembly could act differently on the subject under consideration, which we are discussing today. You could do a proportionality test. You should consider what his intervention in these human rights is and what harm it will do to prevent. What's worse? He did not explain why such an intervention was so urgent that it threatened human rights. The excuses that he's going to cause higher costs, they don't hold back. The point is that we are witnessing discussions on these topics. We can see a broader subject, which is also right. If we just look at the legal aspect, we have more legal professionals, not just constitutional lawyers. Administrative lawyers who have said otherwise, criminal lawyers and others; however, constitutional lawyers have also warned that there are risks to such a decision. There's a wider political view. He was also mentioned today. It's about political scientists pointing out the principle of direct democracy. It should be assessed what people have done and what the president of the National Assembly has done. People have only exercised the legal right left to them, for the government and all the other institutions have not listened to them. That's why they used what the law allows them to do. The President of the National Assembly used an answer, which is not exactly in accordance with such legislation. Politically speaking, we have completely conflicting views; of course, some support, but most advocate the principle of direct democracy. And even more so are philosophical views. But here we run into a whole series of negotiations on human rights violations, violations of legislation and everything. My favorite is Paul Valery's saying that the government loses its charm without abuse. And that's exactly the problem with our societies. We took a model of management of a company that's unusual. We could use a legislative model, a regulatory and regulatory model that allows the state to operate beyond providing regulatory and supervisory mechanisms; unfortunately, there are none. Another is a development model for the state to take care of economic development. This is the case in Asia when the state takes care of the economy. The government invented a new model, I call it the Congregation Model, which has support in theory in the Netherlands. This model is based on the interpretations of the law and the holding of people in ignorance. The key elements are the creative interpretation of legislation and the abandonment of decisions to the Constitutional Court. Such a model is characterised by negative informal institutions, corruption in the broadest sense, clientism, elite agreements and governance through fear. Such a model also needs an appropriate legal state. If we look at what kinds of legal state models exist, we see that we have a German model – the Rechtsstaat model, whose idea is to rightfully limit the sovereignty of the sovereign. The second model is the Rule of Law model typical of the English states, and the model that expanded in the United States is constitutionalism, which gives great responsibility to the Constitutional Court and fully highlights the legal aspect. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have repeatedly pointed out that today's model is unacceptable when one party has a legislative branch of power, an executive branch of government and also the two most important ministries of state. Abuses can occur here, and such abuses are witnessed all the time. From all of this, I can conclude that we need a different model of the rule of law, which will limit the sovereign's will and will not allow the current model, which operates in principle – the state, that is me. And that's why I have to warn you that we're not all little people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate in the context of the 27th item of the 19th regular session will set up a mirror for all of us together. We have already heard this today, a mirror of our state-of-the-state stance, as well as the maturity of democracy in Slovenia. The red thread of the debate, at least according to the content of the call by the proposer, will talk about the different forms of cooperation between citizens, social groups and political institutions in the democratic co-formulation of the functioning of the government. We should talk about the fact that in mature democracies, elections and referendums reflect the highest human will given to the broadest interests and views of the various groups, which are all guided by the same objective – that instead of the institutions, the legislative and executive branches of government directly assume responsibility for the further functioning of the whole structure of the country. That's the purpose of the referendum. In democracy, something is most common and is also expected that very many individuals and groups in society do not agree with the work of everyday authorities or that they want to shape it in their image, their interests, and their desires. For these purposes, it is also legitimate and envisaged that different stakeholders, political parties and individuals, if they do not agree with the work of the ruling authorities, decide to use other democratic means of addressing the authorities. Among those traditionally observed in the Slovenian political space are, for example, cooperation for the negotiating table, media alerts, open letters to the government, parliamentary groups, the organisation of numerous social meetings, meetings, protests on public premises and so on. In mature democracies, similar examples of people’s participation with power are one of the most legitimate and politically and even legally acceptable in the post-election era. In this way, citizens in democracy give themselves and the authorities the opportunity to begin processes to resolve open issues and to seek compromises in a way that will not undermine the smooth functioning of the country as a whole because of their difficulties, i.e. the hardships of those groups. It is only in the event of a lack of response from the authorities that mature democracies assume that such groups, which in the middle of the way also join large numbers of other thinkers, can legitimately and responsibly intensify their pressure on the work of the State by means of mechanisms of direct cooperation in the work of the authorities, which are either requirements for referendums or elections. In the event of a solution to the problem of cross-border migrant workers, the democratic process of cooperation during the current term before a good year and a half ran the way initially described. The process was slow, but finally after a decade of failure, it moved from a dead point to a compromise that would be acceptable to migrant workers as well as to the country. Until just a few weeks ago, when a member of the Migrant Workers' Union decided to leave the negotiating table and, with the immediate use of the referendum institute on the right, beat everyone else, on their part, the untapped mechanisms of participation in democratic processes. Thus, with a move that we believe that the writers of our constitution and fundamental laws did not explicitly regulate it simply because they could not even imagine that it was possible to frame it in this way in democracy for the exercise of their own interests. Just as we have seen and experienced on another occasion. What does one small part of a group of cross-border migrant workers from Apache tell us about the latest decisions on democracy in our country?Oh, my God! The part that has paid lower labour taxes than other citizens since 2006 to its country, which enjoys the same social rights as other fellow citizens. The part that decided to leave the negotiating table in the middle of the dialogue with the government and indirectly the coalition's parliamentary groups and to activate as directly as the highest institution of the direct will of citizens. Can most of us and you identify with such a decision and attitude towards the State and all other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Is this really the only possible image of our 25-year-old democracy? In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are sure not. We believe that a disgruntled group of migrant workers should return to the negotiating table with the government because referendum attempts to prevent the whole country from operating in order to exercise their own interests do not reflect a responsible attitude towards their own country and its democracy. Just as we do not believe that it is appropriate for democracy to co-operate with political parties who have failed to resolve the problem decades ago; but today instead of helping to solve it, they are using it for their own good, because they want to do right-handedly, once again, to beat the elections to the democratic will of the people. Just as we do not have any understanding of the disrespect of one of the fundamental political institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the President of the National Assembly, who in this case is accompanied by difficult and unacceptable political discredits. Although the Institute of the Referendum has been in the past, not only in the current case, but also in the case of serious political damage, we must not allow today to further deepen it with reckless political debate. Not particularly because it was with the plebiscite referendum on 23 December 1990 that we voted our way to a self-sustaining democratic state. For this reason, we believe that every informed citizen and statesman, because of its historical value for our country, rightly sees it as a sacrament of democracy and will not dare to abuse it in the fight for their own partisan interests. From all the above to the end of our position in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we only once again announce our support for the politically weighed and courageous decision of the President of the National Assembly to protect the Institute of the Referendum from attempted abuse; therefore, we will not support the proposal for its resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. I give the word to Dr. Milan Brglez and then the mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u38	The proposalr has the advantage!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u39	Mr Branko Grims, there is no specific order in the Rules of Procedure, but I think it would be right for the President to finish. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you. It is correct to respect the Rules of Procedure, so much so about the subject we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u41	This is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u42	Some of the things in the introduction were such that they demanded clarification before we continued with the debate that we were not wasting time. First of all, today we're talking about someone doing something that they didn't have any legal basis for. What the principle of legality means, you can read in the seventh chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in Article 153, last paragraph, I quote: "The individual acts and acts of public authorities, local authorities and holders of public powers must be based on law or on legal regulation." Mr President of the National Assembly will be able to explain and quote further on which law or regulation based his action; that is what I would really like to hear. Now there are a few other things. It was said by Mr Brglez, I quote from memory: "Fascism and national socialism, or something like that, I will always say no." Yes, Mr. Brglez, I agree, and we've had this problem with you all along. When you're so democratic that you'll say Fascism, national socialism and international socialism, you'll always say no, but then you'll be a Democrat. And then you will probably understand that the protection of democracy is not done by taking shortcuts without a legal basis contrary to the law; it is by ensuring that democracy is protected by consistent respect for rules and procedures; that is, by consistent respect for rules and laws. There's been a lot of tension over the fact that the goal was noble, that you wanted to protect the legislative process. Almost everyone falls on that mine, only if that's what you wanted, then you'd be obliged to respect it in accordance with the law. What does the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative say in Article 21? If the National Assembly considers that the postponement of the law or the rejection of the law would result in unconstitutional consequences, it may require the Constitutional Court to decide. And there are other similar or meaningful solutions in this marriage. What does that mean in practice? That is exactly what this was about, the assessment that the suspension of the application could have anti-constitutional consequences and that in this case it was an abuse, as you interpreted it. Don't talk about the goal, talk about what happened. You have chosen a shortcut that you know that you do not have a legal basis or a basis in any legal regulation. So you have clearly violated Article 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in an eccentric, conscious manner. But the Constitution must be seen as a whole. At the same time, you have intervened in human rights, in the fundamental rights that the Constitution gives to all citizens and citizens, to all who wanted to participate in the collection of signatures, to all who gave their signatures in good faith, and to all those who relied on it to be formally submitted and to be able to collect signatures themselves; regardless of the interest or non-interest of those who went on the basis. It doesn't matter at all in this case, it's not relevant at all. This is a principle of trust in law, in legal procedure; therefore democracy is so important. Apparently, this is where he doesn't want to understand at all. The most tragic thing is to talk about responsibility all the time. Oh, come on! In this National Assembly, I have shown precisely the two constitutional decisions of the Slovenian Constitutional Court and the three decisions of the European Court of Human Rights when it came to an apparent non-constitutional discharge or the taking of the mandate of Mr Janez Janša. I asked you not to do this. I have warned you that even if you wanted to be heard politically in the Constitutional Court, they would not be able, because they already had a precedent, not just their own, not even two; but they also had unprecedented cases of the European Court of Human Rights. At that time, you have declared so much responsibility, and I quote from Mr Brglez's memory: "If it turns out to be unconstitutional, I will take responsibility." Come on! And when it turned out exactly what I said was totally unconstitutional, and by voting in the Constitutional Court nine: zero, the consensus was, you violated the Constitution, you intervened in human rights, where did your responsibility go?Oh, my God! Then, again, I quote, "My mandate is based on the 52 votes I have in the National Assembly." In my own words – I don't care about the constitution and responsibility. So much for your responsibility, Dr. Brglez. And that action alone was more than enough to have any normal, responsible coalition that respects the principle of responsibility immediately relieve you of it because you are unworthy of it. Not to mention what's going on right now. But now it's changing all the time and we're spilling this debate. First of all, you've afforded yourself a grave attack on the proposer and you've accused them of something on the average that they're abusers, as if it were the subject of today's session. If you have any comments, we can discuss this, but the place for this is the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, probably. There may also be somewhere else, but this is certainly not the subject of today's debate. It's just that the attack is the best defense when I don't have any more arguments, and I get aggressive, and I hope that the media will only publish it, and they'll release the arguments because you don't have them. And you know it. For once again, and this is crucial for today's debate if we respect the principle of legality, according to Article 153 of the Constitution we should have a specific provision for our actions, that is the law or the law, because the Constitution here does not allow any other interpretation. "The individual acts and acts of public authorities, local authorities and holders of public powers must be based on law or regulation." Now quote him, please tell me which regulation in this country gives you the right to make substantive decisions about the purposes of those who are proposing; and on this basis decide not to sign a referendum. On the contrary, I say that here the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative is more than clear that you are obliged to do so, because it says that if the legal conditions are met; in this case there were formal legal conditions, there was a sufficient number of regulations, there was a question, it was explained all together, you even wrote that in your own letter; and then you were obliged to sign these things. But if anything is wrong, if you actually thought about it, you should respect article 21 of the Law, which says that the National Assembly can conclude and not sign. And in this case they would have an effective remedy, and so this right was taken from them by your will. [[…]] And I'm talking about willpower. After a shortcut that you could have picked up with no purpose, they are completely irrelevant; but you have no legal basis for what you have done. If you thought something was wrong, you would come to the National Assembly, you would suggest that the National Assembly decide not to sign a referendum on all these matters. And no one could have any comment on the formal procedure in any way. Now the procedure has been breached. Obviously and irrefutablely, for it is not possible to justify this act with the best of intentions. Then every holder of public authority, every authority in this country, will be able to do whatever they want, with the best of intentions. But this is no longer called democracy, but totalitarianism, this is politically proven, Mr. Brglez. As a political scientist, you know this very well, so please do not play insults here today or anything else; but answer legal arguments. Where's your legal basis? Cite the law, the law or the law, the exact article and the quote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dr Milan Brglez has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Dr. Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First, I'm going to continue where I ended up, because I wrote what I wrote down on purpose. Every word is weighty, and that's how it stays. The fact is that I have already said that this is a political debate, that it is a political debate on the resolution by trying to apply the law, in order to achieve another purpose before an institution which is not authorized to explain it, or is not authorized to judge — that is correct — in such a case. The only one empowered in such cases is certainly the Constitutional Court. I also hope that it will lay down those criteria that are necessary, even after such a first decision, in particular after such a first decision; because this decision was based on the purest case of abuse of justice, which can be found – objective facts, not subjective facts. In the case of subjective facts, there must always be an assessment in favour of the applicant. I've stuck to it, and that's what I'm going to keep on doing. But this was a matter of objective facts, and it had to be responded to. Otherwise, the National Assembly would not be able to adopt any law if it did not wait for a minimum of 49 days, no law. All in a row are blocked and the purpose is clearly expressed to continue with this. There is no other than to do so, and there is no other than to be judged at the end by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court always has that power. Now let's continue with my answer. I stopped under Article 153 or this Article of the Constitution, which states: "At the same time, there was a violation of Article 153 of the Constitution, which provides that the actions of the State authorities must be only such as are based on law or legal provision." My answer was already clear in the first part that I did not intervene in any right of 40,000 voters, because there are no signatures, that is a fact. Secondly, here I ask, have you even read the title of the chapter of the Constitution, which speaks and includes Article 153? The title of the chapter is Constitution and legality. I'm referring to constitutionality. Again, something that's not close to you. I mentioned that this is certainly contrary to what your father-in-law gave, and this is Dr. Ivan Pučnik, in the meaning of the Constitution and its adoption. This was a key constitutional issue in which this country was actually formed. Without a Constitution, we're just gone. So I say that the Constitution should be crucial in our country and should be read and respected by all; in spirit and not by the Church. Therefore, you, the proposer, are more likely to have a written approach, at least in my case, because you obviously find the spirit of our constitution difficult to understand, or this is only possible this time. On the web case, you will read the Constitution or explain it by spirit, whatever the political nature of the argument. I think it is necessary to have the right measure here, to take into account each other and that there is no other way. Weighting would also be present in my decision-making, a severe weighing of all arguments – legal, political, philosophical. All that has been mentioned today is certainly not something that would just be. On the one hand, we have 49 days, as I said, of minimum delay in the legislative procedure until the law can be declared, whichever is applicable, that is one thing. And on the other hand, the right to abuse justice. In this consideration, it was clear on which side I stood, it was clear that I stood on the side of respect for this regime that we have in this country, and this is a parliamentary democracy which the referendum provides for, at least so now, to reject laws that have been enforced through legislation. But not to stop, just like that, without adequate legal interest. Then there is another complaint, the worst charge, which I quote: "From the above, the conduct of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Milan Brglez, has clear illegal elements at all the normative levels that bind him and determine his powers – constitutional, legal and business. However, the effect of the conduct is to deny the constitutional right to the electorate and the electorate to the referendum or to give 40 thousand signatures on its implementation. As a result, this means the direct destruction of the constitutional basis of the Republic of Slovenia, that the authority of the people who can exercise it directly at the referendum." My answer – you read Esdesian again, superficial. I understand you're not lawyers. I've only got some legal expertise myself. Nowhere in Article 3 of the Constitution does it say that in Slovenia the authority of the people can be exercised directly at the referendum. Also, the word "direct" comes to the fore, and in this statement you deliberately leave it out again, although it is an equivalent part of the same sentence. And this part justifies why we're here and in this national assembly where we're talking about these things. Without this work, we would not be in the National Assembly, and this is enshrined in our Constitution. This is the third paragraph of Article 3, the second paragraph, which reads fully and is all important: "In Slovenia, the people have power. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections, in accordance with the principle of division of power into legislative, executive and judicial." Here, the only exercise you're taking out of a direct democracy is a referendum. It is not the only possible execution, and it is not the only one envisaged. If, if you find her, the referendum is right here, then I don't know. I know Grimm's stories. Then there's an even worse charge. Say again: "In this act, Dr. Milan Brglez, we are once again witnessing a totalitarian reflection from the past, when ideological and political goals were achieved under ad hoc self-defined natural law, if they could not be achieved under positive law. It all shows that, for example, the withdrawal of the mandate of Ambassador Janez Janša was not only an isolated case of manifest violation of human rights, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also found; it was the deliberate unconstitutional conduct of the procedure followed by this objective, and the incorporation into a series of decisions and actions which negate constitutional provisions and human rights and freedoms to achieve political objectives." My answer – you are talking about a totalitarian reflex from past times. Since many of your members were in the previous regime in important functions, your knowledge of totalitarian reflexes is probably not foreign to you. I don't have these reflexes, I don't have them, I can't have them. I was born in 1967, and unlike many of you, I was never a member of a political party in the previous regime, nor a senior official. This objectively - and objective criteria are important and are also decisive - very difficult to see. As far as natural law is concerned. The fact is, I've already told you all about this, which is why I'm not here to explain anything else, because you can see that you don't understand or understand things. The same applies to the later repealed finding of termination of the mandate under a law which has been inconsistent with the Constitution for twenty years. It's all facts, it's all confessed, it's not about denying something that wouldn't be true. But it is true that the majority in this national council have mentioned that someone must remove this dilemma that we had. The one who could only be removed was the Constitutional Court and let's respect this decision, there is no more dilemma here. Because you have previously directly referred to my mountain roots – colleague Dr. Gorenak and most likely colleague Bojan will also know that the Pohorci are suffering. That is a fact, and we are aware of that fact. I think – I appreciate that – that you will use, sell, abuse everything that is possible only to achieve yours. Although the citizens have told you many times, you obviously do not want to understand what they have told you. As an concluding thought, I allowed myself to paraphrase the sonnets of France Prešern's accident as a conclusion to what I'd like to say. I'm not saying it has some terrible artistic value, but in preparing it all together, I felt that way, and that's why I did it. And it goes like this: the SDS is the jailer, the time in which it is severe, the care of his bride every day, the suffering and the despair of his faithful servant, and the watchman's purse, who never tires. Abuse of the law! For too long there is no need: you are the key, the door, you are the happy road, which leads us out of the democracy of the city, the one where the lie is complete; the one where we will be in power, the one where we will work according to our own, because the country will be in our own possession, the one where we will divide ourselves into ours, yours, because with the country we will anoint ourselves in the pleasure where we will do all that suits us. This is also the conclusion and this intervention that I wanted to have now to finish what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u46	It's hard to comment on one thing in a serious way. Perhaps it would be good if some equipment in this national assembly were at times as predicted for modern cars to be turned on only if too much alcohol is not detected in the breath. What I wanted to explain to you, Dr. Brglez, is that all discussion on the goals should be theoretically so much more. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u47	Mag. Branko Grimes, I ask you to avoid such remarks.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u48	That was a general comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u49	Even the generals.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u50	There is no problem in discussing goals. The goal can be noble, and we know that there were extremely noble ideas of socialism, but only Stalin killed about 160 million of them, of which about 20 million were hungry, and in Slovenia, young girls were living in a grave pit on behalf of this idea. When it comes to big and good ideas and defending the rule of law too, it is necessary to respect what I am talking about all the time today – this is a procedure and a principle of constitutionality and legality. What legality means, I read it to you, I quote you once again and ask you again: The actions of state authorities, individual acts, local authorities and public authorities must be based on law or legal regulation. Once again, Mr Brglez, I ask you to quote the name of the act, article of the act, point of the act, paragraphs where you have the authority to decide whether something is going on, say, in the referendum initiative for abuse or not. What is the purpose of the proposer, where do you have the authority in the law to do so or in the law-based act? Just say it, and we can close today's debate. But if you do not have it, it is an obvious, eclectic, irrefutable violation of the principle of legality. You don't have that right. If you thought something was wrong, that is your assumption, it could be based on some stupid statement by someone, that is no problem; but then you should decide on it by the National Assembly. And against the decision of the National Assembly, if this were to be such that it did not sign a referendum, there would be an effective remedy for which the law provides for it to be implemented within a reasonable period of time, relatively quickly. But if that wasn't the case, you picked up a shortcut, and this was the wrong way. And that is the problem, Mr Brglez, not the content and not everything else that we are debating here today. Do you know what making such shortcuts in perspective means? And the right thing to do is to assume it, it's to be understood. It is very simple, if you were to be honored, let's say that even the Constitutional Court would say that this is okay if one of you just takes that right and decides not to sign the referendum. You know what that means in perspective? That this would be the most reliable manipulation for every ruling coalition to bring every marriage without a referendum, even if it were such a mess, past people and publish it and enforce it. Do you know how to do it that way? You get one group of people, they pick signatures, they deposit them, everyone else says signatures are collected, we don't collect them. And then the guy who filed them said, "Hey, hey, I was just kidding, because we don't even intend to go to the referendum, we want something else. And the president of the National Assembly says I will not call a referendum on this law. All those who counted on the referendum are wiped out under their noses. And you get any marriage with such manipulation into the future. Therefore, such shortcuts are not acceptable, and the law must be respected. Therefore, if we are to assume that this is, even if there is some indication that such an assumption is justified, it is up to the National Assembly to decide. And then there is an effective remedy against the decision of the National Assembly. He can't just take it from one president. That's what we're talking about today. The principle of legality must therefore be respected. Therefore, you would need a legal basis or basis for your actions that you do not have. And that's the problem, that's all. Once again, if it were yours, then this is Pandora's box, which means the end of Article 2 of the Constitution, because at least everyone in this Chamber agrees that the direct exercise or exercise of the authority of the people means that it is carried out at the referendum, that it is a form of this. Because then whenever and whatever takes power, the ruling coalition, it can be total bullshit and people would be 99% against, you get a group, it collects signatures, it submits them, formality is enough, everyone else says the matter is over, people sign in good faith that they will come to the referendum. But the one who puts in, says, our goal is something else, here, there's no invitation, there's no law coming out, there's no way back. No more democracy, Mr. President. And you missed that, and so did all the constitutional lawyers who supported you so quickly. The objective is not to devote resources, not to the law, so the procedure must be respected. That's why the procedure is the mother of democracy. And here's the problem we're talking about today. And that is why the proposal for your resolution is not only justified, but necessary if we want to preserve Slovenia at least with the minimum of democracy that still exists.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u52	Good afternoon. Now the proposer is a little exhausted, he comes into his opening and he does what he's most used to. You're making it up. And keep doing that. That's what the greatest master is. Their lab puts fingerprints all over the place. The most delicious thing is when a fox starts teaching how not to kill himself. That's the most delicious thing to listen to, because you just don't understand anymore whether the fox is serious about whether she's sick or degenerated. Something's just happening. I believe it simply came to your side when your leader falls on the scales and the party goes up. And somehow you don't know how to turn this bottle around now, so you can at least take a little bit of attention to that plane to make it work. And you used what you do best — the referendum area. You're home here, and I'll tell you, you're a pro, you're broke. Above all, you master abuse to the extent that you know exactly when and in what way to press it to reach the goal when the people say, "Mada, look, they have abused our right." At the same time, you don't say out loud that we've changed the Constitution because of you. Because of the abuse you've been doing vehemently for the last fifteen, twenty years. Today I have listened for two hours to some chatter in the direction of how the rule of law is not respected and how the form is the only salvation, the first, because there is simply no other democracy. Of course, I agree with that, deep down, I admit. I repeat this definition several times, but not from the mouth of those who abuse it; and so on. Remember the word "deleted" and what you were doing. For 15 years you've strained this country. For 15 years you have abused the definition of a referendum only to bring you to that point to say: look, we are fighting for justice and we have used all the means that the opposition can. However, you have not reached at least the minimum respect that I would always expect from the opposition. I understand you're fighting for power. That's fair, in democracy, you don't even deny it, never when you go into politics. However, to use all the mechanisms, no matter what the goal is, you are allowed all the resources; however, here the common sense in our society ceases. And once you've got to pour pure wine. Two hours ago, your leader published a tweet with which, of course, you're proud and you're retwitting him, I don't know how many times and you say, "Who was Milan Berglez?" By the way, I don't know who Breglez is here, but I know who he is. And your leader said, "Oh, that model model?Oh, my God! [[…]] Hello?Oh, my God! What model are we talking about — the institute of the President of the National Assembly or the fashion track?Oh, my God! He went on to say, "He who stole the terms of office in the Assembly of State." [[…]] I'm sorry, he didn't steal from anyone, because if he did, you would have criminalized him, like you did the last day of Puppy under some other form. But it is true that you do not say this, that your leader has ceased his mandate, and the Constitutional Court has called it off; but no one has stolen anything. And with this pretense, you come back here and do what you can, of course. Even before the Constitutional Court decides, you simply go to the so-called non-disclosure – your leader of the parliamentary group calls it interpolation, this is Dr. Rules of Procedure, as someone mentioned yesterday, does not even know what interpretation is and what re-voting is – to open Pandora's box and inform the public how you feel about the injustice. Who – you? Here I am in a dilemma, eternal. When I read the SDMS, it's a union of migrant workers, I find that they use terms that are literally prescribed, such as arbitral and discretionary decisions, then that they cannot set deadlines and that they are legal conditions that have not been met; in short, all that was not at the beginning. Of course, there is doubt, I have no evidence, but this was sometimes known in your works in the referendums when you were one and the same – civil society and SDS. This was the same thing, remember the last referendum, the first to be signed was Ambassador Eva Irgle; but no, civil society was, I'm sorry, civil society was. Of course he has all the right, but here it shows where your honesty is. But tell me, where were you ten years ago with the labour migrant union, where were you? You were still in power, but where were you then?Oh, my God! You weren't even there, you just used something that you can use today to continue what's called abuse. And the perverse thing is that you project your own complex on us, like we're abusing something right now. The President of the National Assembly was indeed the first to use the instrument that you today call abuse; but the interpretation is not allowed to you and to us, but only to the Constitutional Court. But you are very fond of taking over all the functions and roles in this country. You like those who are always hurt, always bitter, of course also in the role of the plaintiff, and finally want to get a little more judgment; if it were possible, they would also carry out criminal sanctions. If this were to take place in the form announced by the applicant at the outset, the procedure should be respected. In all these years of our democracy, you've done it six times, five times directly alone, and six times you and the Human Party have pulled out the same circus you're taking out today. In one case you didn't take it all the way, because your leader then said because it was back to the procedure, that was, you wouldn't believe it, in 1998. He made it very clear that it was simply because the then president of the National Assembly refused to convene a meeting — he did not want to call it for similar reasons because they were impossible because they did not serve at the National Assembly at all. What you're doing today is still, like, 15 years from now. And you won't believe it – the president of the National Assembly wasn't left-handed. Dr. Janez Podobnik was, and he was dizzy because he could no longer see it. But a month later, your leader's famous paragraph, in one sentence, says: With regard to the request for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, the debate is irrelevant. Since we Members have today withdrawn this request for interviews in the last days of the meetings, the request for a discharge is irrelevant. What can I judge? That this procedure of yours is always a practice of blackmail. In fact, you do what SDMS does — condition or — or. And in the end, you say one more thing, it was a violation of justice. Excuse me, all Slovenians and Slovenes were able to watch on TV at night in Odessa, when a representative of the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia said the following, when a journalist asked him, "Do you know the content of the laws?" Answer: "No, we didn't have time to study." "Then this has nothing to do with these laws, at all substantively?" "No, I don't even know what this is about, but we're against it." Don't be a fool, as your colleague Pojbič says, from Slovenes and Slovenes and from all over society. Their words, don't bother me now because of this, I'm using him. You like it, it's convenient, or you write it in a reminder that it has to repeat it all the time. Therefore, I ask you if you are a serious opposition, because some Members and Members of Parliament are democratic in your Group, and they are also very capable. Unfortunately, I can't say otherwise, only your leader's supporters can be crystallized in your parliamentary group because the others have to be quiet because they are waiting for a record of whether they will be placed in the right constituency in the next term and are re-elected for a couple of sausages and one stew. [[advertising from the hall]] My friend Tanko, I know you're suffering, but wait a minute. Your minute will come, I'm afraid it'll be yellow. What matters to me is that you have experience. I've already mentioned one, it's deleted. Let me mention another experience with which Comrade Gorenak will not be most pleased because he was then Minister of the Interior. Loss of signatures. Where were you then, the fighters for the referendum and for human rights. That's why Mr. Gorenak had an interpolation. Of course he survived it, but KPK made it clear. Read your decision. I won't read it to you. The KPK made it clear that it is more than clear that the Ministry of the Interior has not done its job than it should have done. So to speak in the name of justice and purity, let the house first clean before the threshold, and look in the mirror and talk about righteousness. However, I strongly recommend and place your heart before attacking institutions such as the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, the Vice-Presidents and all other functions, have at least a little respect, as you or your successors will one day find themselves in these functions. And don't get them dirty before you get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you. It's always nice for someone to help with a little humor. Otherwise the old proverb says, "Where there are many words, there is little wisdom." It was very interesting now to listen to Mr Möderndorfer say that fear for the chairs or the desire for re-election and for the constituencies led us. And that is what the one who has replaced how many customers have already — four if I am not mistaken — has just converted into the largest government party in his struggle for survival. I'm not saying it's not legitimate, but it's not nice. I would suggest that in the future you take little account of the facts about yourself, that you do not smile in front of the whole public. Secondly, what must be said when you spoke about Mr Brglez himself being able to assess his work. Mr Brglez himself said at the outset, I quote that the proposal for a discharge had been expected since January. So Mr Brglez is obviously very good at assessing the value of his work properly and legally. Here we must give him all due respect or understanding for this self - criticism. When you talk about a tweet talking about someone stealing a mandate, I agree with you in this part. The word of the place is not appropriate, as the correct word is that those who voted in favour of the withdrawal of the mandate knowingly violated the Slovenian Constitution and human rights. And that they had been brutally violated, which is an unprecedented shame. This is the right expression for what you did at the time; because you were warned about what the European Court of Human Rights said, you were warned about the courts of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, but you deliberately ignored them. So you knowingly, gravely violated a fellow human being, a member of his human rights. This is the right expression and remains an eternal shame for you who have done so, and unfortunately also for the National Assembly and Parliamentarianism in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to give introductory remarks, which I have also written on one of the social networks, that the proposaler, and in part all of us today, has been given a professorial and commendable lesson in how parliamentaryism looks and how credible and serious debates should also take place in this National Assembly. Thesis is answered with an argument and the facts and concepts are named by their real name. And if we, or all the key actors in the country, always called abuse and fascism always fascism, it would probably also be the confidence of people in us or in all decision makers in this country at a slightly higher level than it is. And if I go back to my evaluation of the professor's performance, which is what the debate is about today. What exactly is the role of President and Leader? That he decides to take his responsibility and that he also takes the consequences of his decisions, when it benefits him and when he does not. Above all, it is capable of deciding when it is difficult to make a decision when it is not uniform, when it has to consider a number of arguments for its decision and, above all, the spirit of leadership in implementing constitutional principles and seeking the interests of citizens and citizens. In this matter, Dr. Milan Brglez did just that. He decided that in the event that he had made the wrong decision, this would have consequences for the decision and probably for him personally. But he didn't run from responsibility, which he said. He consulted, considered, and, above all, sought his decision not in an individual article, but in the spirit of constitutionality and statehood, which the President of the National Assembly, I think, could be expected. If we look at the matter as it is, we can see that the referendum institute is designed to reject a legal solution that we confirm or vote in this National Assembly. When Radio Student objected to extending the powers of the Slovenian Army, it was a reasonable application of the Referendum Institute. But Radio Student didn't abuse some law to improve his negotiating base for his next budget. He opposed a certain legal solution, so he used an institute that opposed a legal solution aimed at – a referendum. When you negotiate for your budget or for your interest group, there is no provision to use it or, I apologize, the Institute of Referendum. If the abuses of the institutions provided by the Constitution were to follow indefinitely, when appropriate, or when it benefits you to execute and ensure your own interest, a better negotiating venue or a more comparatively better position of a group compared to others, then I fear that a similar interpretation would also be possible at an institute called the introduction of extraordinary situations. It would be beneficial for someone, even if it was not in harmony with the purpose of this institute to use it. I think there's an overestimation on which side this could happen. However, there must be an on-the-spot assessment that none of us want to abuse the Institute of Emergency Situations, as it is being abused in Venezuela today. And I don't know how the assessment that the abuse of the Institute of Referendum is a completely different thing can happen on the spot. It cannot be, unless we want to abuse the Institute of Emergency Situations, then we cannot allow the abuse of the referendum institute. He holds that the procedure is king, but when a king is abused, deceived and misapplied, then such a king is a bad king. Then the government disagrees with the principles of government for which it was set, but the government has a completely different purpose, which is usually not for the benefit of people or the state. And if, in this case, we also judge the content and intention – because it is also documented through the media – we find that the applicants have in no way challenged the laws passed. So why use the referendum and why allow the use of a referendum aimed at stifling the functioning of the State to cause the functionality of the National Assembly?Oh, my God! To prevent the National Assembly from exercising its constitutional powers and duties. To prevent the Government from fulfilling the tasks entrusted to it by the National Assembly, including by the adoption of laws. Unless the purpose of the proposer or those behind him and his side is to attempt to create an emergency situation and, if possible, to re-abuse any of the institutions in the next step allowed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr. Milan Brglez took his responsibility, explained his decision and will be judged by the Constitutional Court. And there is no need for us to discuss something today with the additional six hours of the circus, which will be decided, I believe, soon known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u57	He's a magi-proposer. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u58	This easy use of the term abuse in a completely wrong way — abuse was a right that someone does not have. And then the purpose of your words is to the wrong address. But when you speak so easily of abuse, the only one who has not abused the function on the left is sitting next to you, and that is not you, by the way, when we are talking about a discharge or an obviously unconstitutional intervention in human rights when you were taking up the mandate of Mr. Janez Janša. But since you've been discussing abuse all the time, it's the best thing your forerunner has ever done. And I returned to him for a moment, when he said, We have changed the constitution concerning the referendum, because it was an abuse, because of you; it is said of the SDS. And right now, when this is happening, you're talking about abuse again, because that's exactly the basis for the actions performed by Mr. Brglez. Then decide what abuse is and what isn't. But if you truly believe that this is all abuse, please listen for a moment and stop reading that one of us wants to abuse it; for I will tell you how such abuse and actual abuse would end once and for all. Let's sit together, change the Constitution and introduce the Swiss model of the referendum. The legislative process is completely separate from the referendum procedure once and for all, and no process tricks are possible here anymore. The law is adopted in Parliament, the laws are in force. If people ever make a different decision, it is the direct decision of the people. There's no process tricks, no chance of abuse, no chance of will. Pure democracy in its best form, I suggest you do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Members, honourable Members, Honourable President of the National Assembly. Just as you have proudly, arrogantly and arbitrarily taken a decision not to sign off on the opening date for the referenda, so you have proudly and arrogantly started today's opening address with a great deal of disrespect for us Members of the National Assembly. Mr President, I don't understand why you are playing the victim at this point in time. I also don't understand why you feel like a victim because you're not a victim. For the opposition party has the right to point out, or to believe, that there is a violation of human rights and that there is an abuse of the referendum institute, it is only right to point out this. So you can't play or feel like a victim, this isn't about any personal assault on you. I'll tell you an event from the halls of the National Assembly, you personally apologized to me once for unjustly giving me a reminder during the session of the National Assembly. I appreciate it and respect it. But you can't expect us to be silent when there are obvious abuses that you've deliberately dared to commit. We cannot be silent, nor would it be right of the opposition party. In the introductions, you also attacked me as President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, since I did not allow you to explain at the Commission's meeting your position on the abuse of legislation and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course that's not true, Mr President-respected. I have given you this opportunity, but you have decided in a cowardly manner that you will not attend this meeting because you did not want to face the Migrant Workers' Union, which have submitted 2 000 500 signatures in accordance with the legislation, although they have gathered substantially more to call for the procedures necessary to sign the opening of the referendum proceedings. You didn't do it. Why you chose so willingly is of course another question, but you did not do so, you did not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Even more, you were not present at the meeting of the Commission, as you wrote down, for preparation for the continuation of the regular meeting of the National Assembly. I must say, more for the hair of the drawn reason why someone does not attend the meeting of the Commission, I have never heard of it, even because it is the President of the National Assembly. Mr President of the National Assembly, that others will also know who are accompanying us – for the first time, experts will prepare a scenario for you, saying that you do not need to know how to prepare for this scenario. And secondly, you usually, at least so far as the situation in this area is concerned, do not discuss exactly the agenda items, very rarely, usually when you need to protect yourself, but do not discuss the substantive items of the agenda that are at the meeting. But even though you were eager to prepare yourself for this meeting of the National Assembly, even though it might have been at 6:30 in the morning when the Commission's meeting on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities could have been continued, you could have explained your point of view, you even missed the start of this meeting of the National Assembly. Probably because you were too keen on her because you were so prepared for her. In short, your excuse that you couldn't explain the position on the committee is entirely unfounded. Let me go back to why we propose your discharge from the post of President of the National Assembly in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. For the first time, honourable Mr President, it has never happened in Parliament's history that the President of the National Assembly would act on his own initiative and intervene authoritarianly in the exercise of direct democracy. It's never happened before. And if not today, because the obvious coalition will support you in your illegal actions, which means that it itself acts unlawfully, you will have to leave your position when the Constitutional Court most likely decides that you acted unlawfully. Why can we say this with certainty? Because of this, Mr President, because what you have afforded is a dangerous precedent for democracy, dangerous, very dangerous. I don't know if you were aware of the key you've been thinking about, but it's a dangerous precedent, what you've allowed for democratic procedures. I almost do not believe that the Constitutional Court would attach this to you, since this would mean that all future Presidents of the National Assembly can do what is right for them and decide on their own choice as to when to allow a referendum to begin and when not. Are you aware of this responsibility?Oh, my God! Obviously not, for if we were aware of this, we would never have made such a decision. If you accept this responsibility, and if you stand for this decision, which you have voluntarily taken, as also pointed out by members of the coalition parties, in particular the Social Democrats – Mr Han said well that you have not consulted with anyone, but you are taking this responsibility – you take this responsibility also when the Constitutional Court decides that you have acted unlawfully, that you have not acted in accordance with the Constitution, that you have violated human rights, that you have the right to a referendum for citizens and citizens who have the right to decide on important social issues. And you're not the one who's going to judge whether a social issue is appropriate for a referendum, but someone isn't. If citizens and citizens collect a sufficient number of signatures under the law, then it is your job to carry out the procedures, which is why you are in this function. You are not in a position to make a decision as a king of the sun on your own; you are not in a position to be trusted by citizens and citizens. In this case, I understand if this trust is no longer available, how can they trust you if you abuse your position of power. You should be the first to act in accordance with the legislation and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but you have prevented citizens from a certain sovereign right to decide, to co-decision, through the Constitution. To what is a referendum based on the word ad referendum, and we all know what that actually means. This is what needs to be decided. And that you have acted unlawfully and that you have acted dangerously for democracy, we are not just warning the Slovenian Democratic Party and not just the four constitutional lawyers who can give their opinion. I will quote from today's Journal a letter entitled Illegal conduct by the President of the National Assembly, written by Mrs Pia Ravter, a doctorate in European constitutional law and human rights law. She wrote: "From a legal point of view, the matter is quite simple, the President of the National Assembly did not act in accordance with the law, meaning that he acted unlawfully. The basic rule of the rule of law and democratic regulation is that all that is not explicitly prohibited is allowed. However, the authorities, including the Institute of the President of the National Assembly, are treated in exactly the opposite way. The authorities shall only be allowed what is expressly prescribed." We therefore do not justify this in the parliamentary group, which you say is just a witch hunt, but so say the lawyers. Finally, Mrs Rawter wrote: "It would be safe for Dr Milan Brglez to consider his own political responsibility, which is primarily moral and not only regulated in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Regardless of the Constitutional Court's judgment, his action will remain illegal. He also questioned the legality of the entire legislative procedure. If we adopt a different position, we are on a thin ice of arbitration where the authorities can interfere with the fundamental rights of individuals without clear legal grounds." Mr President, you have abused everything that has been misused. You have abused legislation, you have abused the procedure yourself, you have abused citizens and citizens because you have informed them: do not engage, do not be active citizens, you do not have to participate in the procedures that democracy has, because I simply decide everything and as I say it will. In short, an authoritarian way of ruling and deciding. Otherwise, we have an incredible situation in this mandate, most of the doctors' right to sit in this call of the National Assembly, most of them coming from the modern centre Party, which you belong to; the biggest violation of human rights and the abuse of the Constitution is in this particular mandate. That's interesting. And this is always proved by the Constitutional Court, and you abuse human rights and abuse the Constitution. You initially explained that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we constantly abuse human rights because we are talking about them. Mr President, I have been President of the Commission for Human Rights for some time now. I am proud that we hope to speak out in this country and to highlight cases of abuse, because this has not been the case for the most part. It has not happened because some people are not interested in talking about human rights violations. We had countless meetings of the Commission when your fellow Members obstructed the session of the Commission, but you did not tell them that it would be good for them to go to the meeting and have their views represented in a reasoned manner. You didn't tell them that, but you told us to abuse human rights because we dare to point out violations of these. That's a problem for me, Mr. President. In this National Assembly there are such a number of lawyers, even doctors of law, but the most violations are in this area and they are happening here, now, today. Has anyone ever responded, Mr President, to the fact that you have taken away Mr Janez Janša's mandate in an unconstitutional manner? Has anyone ever been in charge of this?Oh, my God! Have you personally apologized to anyone? Did you apologize to Mr. Janez Janša? This is not only a legal issue, it is also a question of the greatness of man, Mr President. You used to teach us morals, so I understood it, but a man shows up when he confesses to his defeat and admits he made a mistake. I appreciate it and respect it if anyone has the courage to go to that man and tell him in his eyes: I apologize to you; a mistake has been made. Not just a mistake, but you did it consciously; and that's the problem. You consciously did, all together, all the doctors of law sitting here knowingly took away Janez Janša's mandate. And that is because you acted in this process to ad personam and not ad rem because you were dealing with hatred of a person; not with what is the point. And then he had to tell you and explain it to the Constitutional Court. And for free, moral sermons are introductory. I understand what you're trying to say, and I also understand that you feel kind of cornered and then attack left and right, although there would be no need. But you must be aware that this decision is yours to make, you are responsible for it. And we have the right to discuss it and also to warn about the abuse of law. We have another case, your government is supposed to be the most ethical government and the modern center's party is the most ethical party of all time, if I say so. You have a minister who has violated countless laws that have abused the data of citizens and citizens who have violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Have you ever stopped by and said it's true? You're not because you really don't care if it's right or wrong. The important thing is that it's like you set yourself up on a political agenda. Mr President, I think we should leave our position, but before then, I will not mention natural law, but I will only say this when you have taken away the anti-constitutional mandate of Slovenian Democratic Party President Janez Janša. Then you should know what to do. We wouldn't even be in this situation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you, too. Colleagues and colleagues, let me also welcome you from this place and wish you, above all, fruitful work and constructive dialogue. I give my word to Mr Igor Zorčič, followed by Tillen Christmas. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would like this debate held in the National Assembly to move slightly from these uncomplainted insinuations and accusations made by the President of the National Assembly, for which he received no warning. To the facts – colleague Grims has already repeated twice or three times that the President of the National Assembly should only finally quote those provisions of the Constitution, laws, regulations or anything that gave him this right to decide against the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. He's repeated this thing twice or three times. Since the President of the National Assembly has consulted the entire Slovenian legal profession that we have the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we have the Government's Law Service and so on, I would expect the President of the National Assembly to tell exactly what legal basis he used for his decision. Nothing helps us to criticize us in the media, not to attend meetings of the National Assembly, which is not true that we do not participate in the work of the National Assembly, which is even less true that we are not proactive because we have tabled almost as many laws or acts as the government has tabled. You also assess, and the President himself, that this agenda item is not necessary. That is why I propose, Mr President, that the President of the National Assembly, because he has not done so himself – he has not done what he requires of all others when we are discussing in the National Assembly, to use the legal basis and on this basis we are also discussing and referring to it – to invite him to finally say so. He's been sitting for three hours, and he hasn't said that yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Tanko, I understand your proposal and your promotion of the debate or the orientation of this debate, but I believe that Mr President will have more than one opportunity to answer all your questions during today's debate. I respect your suggestion. I give my word to Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Congratulations on your performance, you have already experienced the baptism of colleague Tank with a procedural proposal. I don't know where to start. This session has turned into something else. We've never heard of migrants. As far as the referendum is concerned, there can be one fundamental question that we must ask ourselves: Is the referendum, the right to a referendum right in itself, the right to per se? Does this right have any purpose? I'm sure the right to a referendum has a purpose. If I focus on the subsequent legislative referendum, the purpose of this right is for the initiators and then the citizens to decide whether or not to adopt a law or whether to enforce a law or not. Our history has shown that referendums have been repeatedly abused in the past. This has also been found several times by the Constitutional Court. Legislation has changed, but obviously we're still going this way somehow. Some want to continue to imagine this right as a right in themselves that everyone, including someone who has five minutes of time, may request a referendum. Some, however, insist that this initiative should have a referendum and then require a referendum with its content and purpose. In a specific case, we are witnessing a situation where the initiators of the referendum are somehow challenging laws that are not concerned in any way; and they themselves recognise this. They say, for example, that some of them are not concerned by the Codex of the Sea, but that is how they want to stop the cycles of the National Assembly. I think that the decision of the President of the National Assembly is entirely in place that he is not, after the interpretation of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, someone who has no right to think. You have to explain, you have no right to think — that is what was said between the lines today. And it is right to protect this right to a referendum for those who really need it, who, for example, do not want to be punished by a law that can harm them; for others who do not pursue it, who pursue completely other purposes, let this right be limited. I do not want to prejudge what the Constitutional Court will say in this case. At the end of the decision, it may also be dissonant, and constitutional judges will be able to vote four to five. What does that mean? According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's interpretation that the four should resign or how. I predict this, even if the Constitutional Court says that these incentives should be allowed to collect signatures, that in a new procedure, which will certainly be initiated by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, I will certainly not support any idea in this direction in order to dismiss the President of the National Assembly as a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Today it was heard five times, if not repeatedly, by a colleague of Grims about this: you have taken the mandate of a Member, you have been slapped by the Constitutional Court. Of course, it's a pure lie, full of falsehood. I have to read the decision, and I see that the President of the Commission has not yet read the petitions. The decision of the Constitutional Court was as follows. "The Law on Members is inconsistent with the Constitution. The legislator shall remove the finding of non-compliance within one year. The decision of the National Assembly shall be dismissed." The Constitutional Court has never dismissed any Members for the removal of a mandate to a person who was legally sentenced to prison at that time, but who said that the unconstitutional Law on Members, which, absurdly, was adopted by the Member himself, who had been deprived of his mandate. With this decision of the Constitutional Court and then the decision of the Constitutional Court in other criminal matters, matters were put in place, but this account, which is going on by colleague Grims, I have now heard my colleague Irgle, is completely depressed. Apparently, somehow, you haven't even read these constitutional decisions. There have been a lot of perceptions about this. Comrade Gorenak also wrote that the president of the National Assembly is a fan of totalitarianism. These are completely incorrect statements. The president of the National Assembly decided on his own conscience, and his intentions were not in any way bad. Those who wanted to stop the bicycles of the National Assembly were not harmed in any way by the laws they wanted to stop. You remember the adoption of these laws. No one has ever pointed out this to be an issue for migrant workers. Some such notes that the president of the National Assembly is a fan of totalitarianism; colleague Gorenak, you are a former commander, a militiaman, you have defended this left totalitarianism with a gun behind your belt and with a pendrek. [[advertising from the hall]] Depressed. This meeting obviously has a political dimension of its own, to deal with someone who is the president of the National Assembly, who comes from coalition lines. If we wanted to draw attention to the issue of laws that were supposed to be the subject of the referendum, we would have warned. What you did — nothing. You haven't done anything about these laws. You could also give yourself an initiative for a referendum if you feel you need it; you have this opportunity by law, and you have not taken advantage of it. So obviously the only purpose is to disqualify someone who is a member of the coalition because of some of his political tendencies. I will not accept this suggestion of yours in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u65	Gradually, Mr. Jože Tanko, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Vice President, your superior, as well as ours, the President of the National Assembly is probably not anyone. He has a number of powers under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. To one among us, his position is regulated in the Constitution, in Article 84. Its rights and obligations are laid down in Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure. With regard to a specific case, the right invitation to referenda on the initiative and procedures is explicitly stated in Article 16a of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative: "If the initiative is submitted in accordance with the law, the President of the National Assembly shall, within seven days of its receipt, inform the Ministry responsible for the management of the register of electoral rights of the initiative and set a calendar period within which the signatures of the electorate shall be collected to support the request for a referendum." That's all it says. And again, I ask the President of the National Assembly, or I ask you to invite him to explain precisely on the basis of which provisions of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative or any other act that we do not know on the basis of which he prevented qualified initiators from giving them a deadline for collecting signatures for the referendum. Otherwise, we will continue to witness similar nebulos as lawyer Zorčič said earlier when he does not even know that Members can no longer sign or request a referendum; it is eliminated by a change of constitution that we have adopted. Therefore, I ask you again to direct this debate or ask the President of the National Assembly to finally explain what the legal standards are in the public rules of the Republic of Slovenia on which he based his decision. There is no need for any interpretation, no kind of a word, to have any theological, such, or other interpretations; just read the provision on which the decision is based. Nothing else. I hope that this kind of explanation will not be too difficult for the President of the National Assembly, because it is obvious that the one who is most qualified to interpret the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, laws and so on is among us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u67	Mr Jože Tanko, I propose that we allow the debate to be held by all Members. I think that the debate is fruitful, constructive, and we also get answers to the questions raised. As has already been said, Mr President of the National Assembly will have more than one opportunity to answer all your questions, so I suggest we move on. I give my word to Mr Tiln Bozic and prepare Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u68	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. It looks like you're just going to work out today, at least as far as procedural proposals are concerned. Congratulations, keep it up! I'll just start with the end. It's kind of the one that we have an interesting situation. If I were to cut back on some rationality or finance, I would come to the conclusion that the president of the National Assembly listened to, heard and saved them, both to him and to us, as well as to all others, a little energy and money, so that he could focus on what their goal is, or those who advocate him. What am I up to? I think that they have made it quite clear that they do not know exactly what this legislation says is their purpose and purpose elsewhere, so they could then get out of this that they are, in some way, almost consciously exploiting this right given to them. And from here on out, there's got to be a step forward. Also, the statutes – they have been reorganised, they have become a union – say somehow what they should advocate, that there should be no extra taxation on income from abroad to help in group actions against Furs, protect the economic and social interests of members and so on. But it is true that the final indent tells us to pursue other common interests. If this means taking some initiatives for referendums from any area that is very difficult to link to any of their activities; and fine. The only one I have managed to link somehow is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Maritime Code. Why? Because, again, not in this law, sailors, those on long voyage ships have more than six months of special treatment for a particular reason, including historical and tax purposes. However, this matter is somehow more difficult for a number of reasons. Several times it was stressed that they were supposed to be in a deprived position somehow. But the fact is, they've been privileged several times by now. Once with that relief, which was somehow also annulled by the Constitutional Court, once again by the fact that, for those tax debts in the past years, they had already become oblivious to both eyes. The fact is, somehow we have to respect those hands and rules that somehow apply to everyone. As I have said many times before, we have international comparable legislation, many of them have also turned to the European Commission, written it, and in some ways tried to create some pressure. Then the European Commission replied, that was nine. 4. have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union to adopt an approach to the elimination of double taxation in accordance with European Union legislation. This is the Slovenian approach we have. They also said that Slovenia used the deduction method to avoid two taxations, where they took time and explained it little. If the tax owed in Austria is lower than the corresponding tax in Slovenia, the taxable person must pay the difference in any case. It follows that he will pay the same total amount of taxes, this is the sum of Austrian and Slovenian taxes as he should have paid if he was taxed in Slovenia. Therefore, it is not in a worse position, but it is in the same position as if it earned its entire income from employment in Slovenia. It follows that in this case it is not a violation of the freedom of workers. There were other arguments here, but somehow they got into it, explained it. I think there'll be something else to see later. And with that, I don't deny that the conversation wouldn't go on. They run on the government, I think the direction is right, where energy is invested in looking for some common solutions if they can be found; and they will somehow be fair to other fellow citizens. Investing energy in this for ten years has been a requirement for the call for referendums to be written to the European Commission, that it is also a general attack. Even on the Committee on Finance, we had the opportunity to fire from all cannons in all ways, but often without argument or with wrong arguments; rather than in my opinion, we could focus on those that would allow a possible shift from this dead point. It was also said that there were no conversations. There were many conversations at many levels. As far as this is concerned, I would like to reiterate once again what I have said in the opening statement that in my opinion the decision of the President of the National Assembly made sense, given that they themselves have said that they do not know exactly what is in these initiatives. And secondly, that their purpose is not what is written in their statutes, what is their purpose, but what is one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u69	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have reviewed the existing acts adopted in the National Assembly – the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Provisions allowing for a decision not to sign the procedure for collecting signatures, which is 35 days, cannot be found. That is why I am referring to you as an initiative to call on the President of the National Assembly – for the fifth time – to respond. What legal provision has enabled him to take such a decision? Secondly, we ask for further clarification as to whether there are any secret official lists in this country with which Members are not familiar, allowing the President of the National Assembly to decide as he has decided in the event of rejection of the request for a referendum. Are there any secret documents or secret instructions that can be done? I think that these things would help us to start finally discussing the content, the legal basis for such a decision; and not to fling about the Maritime Code, the oysters and similar topics, and what rights we Members have regarding referendums. By the way, the lawyer from the quota of the Modern Centre Party in the National Assembly doesn't even know that Members can't ask for it anymore. I suggest, however, that you address the President of the National Assembly with a request to finally answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. Your information is not correct. It's not in the fifth. You asked for the same thing at 6:00. I believe three times, Mr Grimes, and you three. Mr President of the National Assembly is a meter and a half from you and he hears you as well as all of you. The debate is very broad, but it is true that some want to hear only what we like best; but I believe that you will get the answers below. The debate is dynamic and constructive. Let's keep it that way. Mrs. Jelka Godec, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr President, Dr Milan Brglez, it is true that you were not my choice when we voted on the President of the National Assembly, and yet I expected something different from you and certainly not what we are experiencing during your term of office. And I would also like to hear what I like to hear, and this is to tell you which law, article in the Constitution gives you the exclusive right to reject the referendum. I haven't heard that truth before today, so it would be really good if you told us. When you had your expertise at the beginning, or your explanation, you were, I must say, deeply offended by the Slovenian Democratic Party, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party; not just us. You have also offended those who have submitted a request for a referendum and all those citizens who have trusted you with their voice, because someday those who have elected you may have submitted a request for a referendum and you will reject them harshly with your will. You also rejected those who still trust the first article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that Slovenia is a democratic republic, that Slovenia is a legal and social state and so on. You've quoted this a number of times today. Your insults were tweeted, your client, especially your statement when you said: Fascism will always be and everywhere I say no. All I care about is who you are. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That was your statement, sorry, Mr. President. Yeah, it's on Twitter, you can take a look. And I ask you this question: Whom did you say no to, to which fascists did you say no? To those who have submitted a request for a referendum, or to us Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party who have submitted an application for your release? I want an answer here, too. Whom, to which fascists did you strongly say no? All the laws that have been passed and which are somehow in the Constitutional Court or in any way obstructing these referendum initiatives have been adopted at the time of the Janša government, first or second. Even so, we have heard that the Law on Members has been passed by a single Member – Mr Janez Janša, but you have done absolutely nothing to change these laws in any way. In your insults at the outset, I must say that perhaps these insults can also fly to the so-called old Members, those who are not the first term. I can't afford that. And you have been applauded by those colleagues who have similar statements, in their media statements, similarly incite hatred towards all those who simply point out irregularities or have different views on certain laws, things that are happening in the National Assembly. Or those who do not agree that the President of the National Assembly decides for himself what is right and what is wrong. Of course, where this law and the Constitution do not give him justice. As in 1661 Ludvik XIV. said: State – this is me; so today Mr Brglez could come with such a statement and it would be completely enough. Those who know little history are also then Ludvik XIV. let's say he restored the rules of government, the high nobility was in charge of various court services or he was giving them money support to make it completely dependent on his grace. Thus he strengthened the king’s position according to God’s justice. So I ask Mr. Brglez, under what right does he strengthen his position as President of the National Assembly? Ludvik XIV. He promoted faith in his semi - divine position, but his rule was certainly not perfect. There were problems in the internal structure of the country, spiritual inefficiencies, mixed state finances and economic downturn. Isn't it similar today?Oh, my God! The president of the National Assembly said: "The country – this is me; I will decide which referendum will be called, which will be followed by the will of the people." But at the same time, we know that Slovenia is in the background experiencing everything I have listed: mixed state finances, economic downturns, spiritual inefficiencies and so on. From the electorate, Mr President of the National Assembly, you have been given a mandate to run this country and the society in which we live, in accordance with your political agenda. If you think that voters are wrong when they have applied for a legislative referendum, you must not go beyond the rules in force in the democratic game. Just because you think you're smarter than these people, than your constituents, doesn't mean you can deny them the legitimate right to a referendum. A voluntary decision, such as yours, which is unique in the twenty-five years of Slovenian independence, can lead to severe consequences. So any president of the National Assembly can at any time decide by his conscience, by his own will, by his own will, and close all possibilities for the people to decide on the referendum or otherwise. On one of the committees was said by the MEPs of the Modern Centre Party – people wanted changes and they got changes. Those who elected the government coalition didn't want such changes, and I don't think they wanted them to. Such self - will is difficult to understand. And if we don't understand or don't want to understand in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we don't want to hear your explanations – look, we listen to them, but we don't want to hear anything. He can't hear why it happened. Only that — as one of the Members said — is also substantively defined. It's not about content, it's about the process itself. Once again, what legal basis did you use, Mr. Brglez, which articles of the Constitution did you reject the invitation to referendum? That's the only question. Did you really make up your mind based on pure will and what you thought at that time? You have a duty to follow the law, and you have a duty to follow the Constitution. And I do not allow myself what you said at the outset, that I do not respect the Constitution, that I do not respect human rights and that I do not respect the laws. On the withdrawal of your term of office, you said that you would not voluntarily resign on the removal of Mr Janša's term of office if you did not do anything so terrible and did not intend to resign. Don't you think you've made an even worse mistake today? You didn't just reject one, you turned down thousands of people and all those who would like to make a decision at the referendum. I really want to know what these legal bases are, the articles in the Constitution that allow you such self-determination, willpower. And I think that, as President of the National Assembly, you are such insults to yourself at the outset, to the Slovenian Democratic Party and to all voters you should not allow. You would expect a person to make an argument, but as we know – I must say that we are also experiencing this on the committees – when there are no arguments, insults begin, the search for commas, vocabulary errors and so on. Mr President, step away from this throne from which you speak the State – this is me; and respect the law and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Jelki Godec. Next one's a mag. Dušan Verbich. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, the President of the National Assembly, a very nice greeting! Before my discussion, I will allow myself to give an answer to respectable applicants about the legal basis and the like, as this has been very often highlighted in recent times. But I would like to mention in the introduction that there would be no more misunderstandings or omens that usually happen that this is my vision. It is true, however, that I hope to say that, as Members of Parliament, in such difficult subjects, we simply cannot put ourselves in the role of an arbitrator of constitutional law and we are, in some ways, the most skilled in this kind of legal topic. With regard to the question or subject matter, or the President of the National Assembly himself has no jurisdiction and has no legal basis. Respectable motioners, I'd like some attention. General constitutional principles are hierarchically superior to all constitutional law, whether you agree or not, that is a fact. One such general constitutional principle is also the principle of the prohibition of the abuse of rights. This principle is found in Article 2 of the Constitution in conjunction with Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Constitution. Even though it's not explicitly written there, it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. And here I will return to what has been said a little earlier today — spelling. I was also involved in spelling on one of the parent’s work bodies, which was unjustifiable. If I go back to today's debate of the applicants, you are practically causing literacy in this case in your debates relating to the Constitution, because the Constitution is above all laws and also all procedural rules. And if I continue to exercise my rights in the rule of law, it is not possible to exercise its rights in contravention of the purpose for which they are given; or even with the sole purpose of harming others. Investing an unlimited number of requests for a legislative referendum to achieve objectives that have no connection with specific legislative procedures is such a case. Such demands must not only be allowed, but must be rejected by the President of the National Assembly for the apparent abuse of the right to referenda. If he does otherwise, he himself violates the Constitution, which, as it is said, in Article 2 and in conjunction with Article 15, paragraph 3, requires him to prevent the abuse of rights. This does not require complementing the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, since the legal basis for it is the Constitution itself — specifically, the general constitutional principle for prohibiting the abuse of rights. Now I'm going to make a point of my own. I am starting my discussion with a thesis that is already quite familiar in some ways. The abuse of justice is a negation of the essence of justice, and we will certainly only get a relevant answer to this problem by a decision of the Constitutional Court; certainly not by making a proposal to dismiss the President of the National Assembly. Especially not on the basis of the political debate today. I am of the view that the applicants of today's proposal do not intend to solve the substantive problem of daily labour migrants in the Republic of Austria; they are taking advantage of the opportunity to reduce the personal reputation, credibility and authority of Dr Milan Brglez as President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia through a legitimate political tool. Perhaps the biggest opposition party of the Slovenian Democratic Party, by submitting this proposal, wishes to reiterate its dissatisfaction with its previous way of working, leading or deciding this national assembly. Or by doing so, the applicant wishes to harm an institute called the President of the National Assembly, and I must admit that I have no reply right now. Members of the National Assembly, who represent the legislative branch of power, would expect and most likely expect voters and voters, professional and lay-offs, citizens and citizens to have a wide variety of political definitions of parliamentary groups – by the way, we have been elected and we have a mandate – to be able to resolve constitutional dilemmas on our own. By submitting this proposal by investors, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group makes it clear to me that they are not able or willing to resolve this within this national assembly. By submitting a proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, by the largest opposition party, we simply face the fact that politics, the professional and the lay public are not uniform. However, the opinions and views of constitutional lawyers are interesting, and I will not talk about the number because something has already been said about this today. Their views — and I would like to stress this in particular — regardless of their personal ideological beliefs, which are different or uniform. What especially attracted me and caused special attention is the following, and I will simply borrow it. He says: The decision of the President of the National Assembly is a positive message that the National Assembly, on the substantive side of the Co-Creator of the Constitutional Order, will, however, be maintained. So far, passiveity has been disturbing, the position of the President of the National Assembly requires that his actions be based on the powers conferred on him; and the burden of proof that the intervention is justified is on the President of the National Assembly. I have to admit, there's nothing to add here. Let me conclude, I support the President of the National Assembly in his decision, and in particular because, given the powers of the President of the National Assembly, he has made his own and courageous decision as he is. This decision by the President of the National Assembly only confirms my opening thesis, which says – The abuse of justice is a negation of the essence of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The text was requested by a representative of the Magi's proposer. Branko Grimes. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you. The Constitution must be read as a whole, that is the first and fundamental principle when it comes to the Constitution. Second of all, talk about literature, no offense, colleagues, but I was there when the Constitution was written, not just in a wider group, I even wrote some article. Not only do I know how it was written and who was involved, but I also know how it was interpreted, even in an individual process, because there were some compromises that were then eventually possible to accept. And as an interesting thing to say, the first drafts of the writing constitution provided for a majority electoral system and the possibility of recalling officials. Later, compromises brought this to a standstill, which was mainly the demand of the left. I would argue, however, that if this remained in the Constitution, today Slovenia would be a richer and more incomparably responsible country by all of us than it is today. If we are based on the principles set out at the time, the principle of legality is fundamental when it comes to an individual’s question. An individual or his or her actions in a process, especially when it comes to procedural acts affecting the field of human rights, must be based unconditionally, ladies and gentlemen, either on the law or on the law. This is explicitly provided for in Article 153 of the Constitution, and you can take another look at the last paragraph. Mr President should explain which regulation, which article, which paragraph of the Article gives him the basis for what he has done. But if that is not the case and we all know that this is not the case, but it was the usurpation of power, it was an abuse that was unacceptable and even a criminal offence. What needs to be done — and therefore nothing needs to be complemented by this moment of law or to say that it is unclear — is already stated in the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. If the Council of State considers that failure to enforce or later enforce the law could have consequences, it shall have the right not to accept the initiative. And then the dispute is decided by the Constitutional Court. An effective legal path, effective protection, the deadlines are reasonable, the reference to the Constitutional Court is that it must decide no later than 30 days. If things were as clear as the President of the National Assembly had imagined, the Constitutional Court would probably have decided within a few days, and none of this would have been necessary. And here to talk about the president showing determination. I don't know if you all have a little fuhrer syndrome or what's wrong with you. That's no reason to collect shortcuts. This is unacceptable, for then everyone can do whatever he wants, but it is justified by some good intentions or by a stupid statement from someone on the other side. Where this is going, I already told you. And that's what everyone missed, including those who supported it in the first phase. In the final stage, the exercise of such a path, such a shortcut, would mean that those in power could completely abolish the right to a referendum because they would always form one group themselves, pick up signatures, say – here; they would say – because we do not intend to sign a referendum. Oh, it's not a purpose, so let's go to the press, the law's in force. But all those who would expect the opportunity to express themselves against the law are wiped out under their noses. Then the rule of law is over, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why it is illegal to have jurisdiction beyond the law without legal basis. I find it hard to believe that I can hardly imagine that the Constitutional Court would say that what is right is that the law actually set out another way — the way to decide the National Assembly as a whole. And then there is also an effective possibility of judicial protection, not only in the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, but also in the Constitutional Act to implement the constitutional amendment of the Constitution when the article on the referendum was amended, where it is explicitly stated that in the dispute between, be careful, the National Assembly and the proponents, the Constitutional Court decides and that this is the interpretation that is appropriate in relation to the current law; that is, the amendment of legislation that might give any other solution or other basis. But this is the legal situation at the moment, and this should be respected, so should be done and there should be no problem at all. So things are legally defined, they are legally clear, unfortunately there is a shortcut that is legally inadmissible. However, if I am mistaken, please once again call on Mr President to merely quote the law or the law giving him the right to decide not to sign a referendum or to collect signatures for the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u77	Get Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert ready. And in front of her, I give the word "magic." Bojani Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I wish you a success! Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! Today is the second time we have decided on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly and today even on the subject of the non-signature of the referendum. The situation is as follows: the right to participate in the management of public affairs is a fundamental human right enshrined in Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This is not to be disputed at all, and I also felt that all these initiatives, which were taken by the Slovenian Migrant Workers' Union, were entirely legitimate in order to request a legislative referendum at the outset. As a former Vice-President, as I was partly involved in the adoption of these initiatives, I began to wonder where this was going. And what was soon clear was that the initiators had no real purpose. Even in their statements, they said that they did not oppose adopted laws. These laws, such as the Law on Media and the Law on International Protection, have even been said to be a matter of civil disobedience, because they believe that politics does not listen to their problems of double taxation. However, according to all the chronology I have examined, the governments have not been deaf to their calls. It was adopted by the Income Act, although their status was resolved, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions because they were inconsistent with the principle of equality. So we have faced the problem again, which I believe is good for all employees in Austria, but in my opinion, there are also those working in Italy and Hungary as well. It cannot be overlooked, however, that all employees abroad and their family members benefit from the infrastructure, education and similar services paid from the state budget, so it is important that part of the income is settled in Slovenia. I've also seen some of the numbers received by these migrants who didn't report themselves. And indeed, these amounts are enormous, and I understand that they have begun to seek their right in a different way. However, I think that this is not the right way to stop adopted laws. It is therefore really important to find a common way to resolve matters in a perfectly legitimate way and not in any way by pressure on the government or even the whole country. With the initiative of the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia to tender, it can be achieved if, of course, 2 000 500 signatures are collected to keep the laws adopted in the National Assembly for about two months. The question arises, however, what would happen when these laws are urgently needed for enforcement and would cause harm to others. It's unacceptable for me. Let me also summarize the fact that in Slovenia there is a constitutional democracy, the Constitution is above all. And that's what the mag said. Verbič, indeed, the principle of the prohibition of the abuse of rights is found in Article 2 of the Constitution in conjunction with Article 15, paragraph 3, although it is not explicitly stated, but with regard to the submission of an unlimited number of requests for a legislative referendum to achieve an objective which has no connection with specific laws, we consider that this is an abuse of this institution. That is why I believe that the President of the National Assembly has done the right thing to reject the obvious abuse of the right to referenda, but I must say that I also agree with the opinions of legal experts who, in their own way, interpret the President's decision. But the key is that they think he did the right thing. Of course, on the other hand, it is crucial to judge the Constitutional Judges. At this point, allow me to touch further on the first position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, which stated that the President of the National Assembly must present an initiative to call for a referendum. Then you ask yourself what role the president of the National Assembly has to play. And here allow me to quote Dr. Tonet Jerovska's opinion: "The President of the National Assembly is the first obstacle to abuse. If only I had the role of a postman, his role would be meaningless." And I'm pinning it on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Jasna Murgel ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the National Assembly, allow me to take advantage and wish you a successful, especially proper job, which will benefit citizens and citizens! Allow me to address the President of the National Assembly. This time I turn to you, esteemed Brglez, personally, as a man. Today we are not talking about the Slovenian Democratic Party, nor is the subject of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Today we are talking about the dismissal of someone from the post of President of the National Assembly, because in our view, this person has violated the law and the Constitution. That's our opinion. Your answer, however, was intended solely for an account with the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is your legitimate right. But when I told you before that I'm turning to you as a human, I'm actually not only disappointed, but I'm hurt because I didn't think you could sum it up or have such anger toward us. Such strong anger towards the Slovenian Democratic Party that I never thought of anything like this. Before that, colleague Jelka Godec summarized your statements, where you mentioned fascism, these are also the records from the magnetogram. "I will always say no to Fascism everywhere." Then you also mentioned Nazism and communism in the work. I would be very happy if you would answer that once again, because if this was about the Slovenian Democratic Party, if this was about those who are collecting signatures; but if it is not, then I really don't know what the point is. For what you read to the Slovenian Democratic Party is neither fascism nor communism, nor Nazism; but it is democracy. Just like you and I were elected to this National Assembly, you're just taking your job that way, I see it a little differently. These words of yours have much greater weight. Now, Member Jani Möderndorfer has returned to the Chamber, who here screams after Parliament many times, is no longer moving anyone. But when you do that, it worries a person because it's the second biggest job in the country. I would expect you to take it with all your responsibility, both politically and personally. I must remind you that I really strongly reject any insinuation and connection to any totalitarian regime. This will not only affect members and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, including all members and us personally. I once told the National Assembly that I would not allow it because my family suffered too much under all three totalitarian regimes. I think it's going to be a while before we have to think about these kind of sayings a little bit better. I will be happy when you know where, in any law or constitution, you can find your right to prevent citizens and citizens from signing under a referendum request or request for a referendum. If any representative who may have started to collect these signatures has justified this by some blackmail, I ask you why you, as the second largest function in this country, did not have to do so literally, because they no longer know how. Because the executive branch does not hear them, it does not want to hear them, nor does many others. Now tell me, how can you personally assess whether someone who signed this request really abused what you read to them?Oh, my God! You can't. Nor can I say the opposite, but in your statements you say: Who are you in the Slovenian Democratic Party to say what is constitutional and what is not constitutional? Is that what you, esteemed president of the National Assembly are for? Are you in charge of this case?Oh, my God! I don't think so. I think it's the Constitutional Court that will pass such judgments. Our job as the opposition is to point out what we think is wrong. We argue that you do not have a legal or constitutional basis for your decision; regardless of the different opinions of lawyers. In other cases, there have been different opinions from lawyers. In your performance, you said a lot of things, talking about some responsibility, political responsibility. Look how you imagine your political responsibility. Once you have taken away your mandate, and in whatever way your Members now wish to do so, even lawyers, the fact is that one of the Members has been deprived of his mandate for a certain period of time. The fact is, the Constitutional Court has written down a lot in that decision. There was also talk of preventing the work of the opposition, and that is true; but then you said I would take political responsibility. How you interpreted this political responsibility later when it came to a decision to withdraw, of course, if you are required by the coalition or those who support you. Your Honor, what if they did the same thing you did? Cuddy's suing, the Cadillac's suing. We really didn't expect them to get rid of you because they did the same thing you did. But there was no political responsibility. Not just that, not personal. Some personal property of an individual, however, I believe, even that – I'm sorry, we were wrong – sometimes he says something. He'll say more if you can't say it. You said that even our representatives are blushing abroad because of our decisions. It will not hold, but many have blushed when they heard what we were going to do in Slovenia when we sent the opposition leader's attacks just before the elections. A lot of people wondered what was going on. Even today, many wonder what is happening to Slovenia. The latest developments around the Slovenian Army, I believe you can read slightly better between lines and those that have warned about the strange direction Slovenia travels. There's a lot of that. And that's the strangest thing about being exhausted. When I was elected to the National Assembly, it's not my duty to deal with you. I expect proper guidance from you, not because, for example, someone has a bad day or because he thinks that some criminal policy must start with my performance. I'm just expecting some correctness from you to come by at the time in the country, even when you see things going wrong. But in such cases, you didn't pick up. Moreover, you have helped in some decisions, such as the withdrawal of the mandate and other decisions. You do not answer or act when some in this national council wear the symbols of totalitarianism; you mention in the opening that against all totalitarianism you somehow cultivate a negative attitude. It won't hold. Apparently, some of them are nicer to you than others. In short, once again, you haven't told me where your marriage allows it. You said you did it to protect the rule of law. What, though, is the rule of law like respect for laws and the Constitution? In this national assembly, we had an important decision at one point. It was a referendum initiative on the decision to amend the Slovenian Army Act. Is that right? We sat down that evening, took a decision, and then a proposal for a referendum was put forward. It was a matter of security, it was a matter of security for this country, and you did not take such a measure. You didn't think it was an abuse. On the other hand, in your speech, you will say something else, which in your own horrendous way, "I make this decision that this kind of abuse will not take place now and in the future." Does this mean that the next initiative of citizens and citizens in your eyes may again sound like an abuse and you will take that decision. This is already close to that country – that is me; and very dangerous. I don't think you can silence citizens and citizens in this way. Not with your maneuvers to help the government. The government's inability to do so is obviously everywhere and the fact that you have been destroyed by the opposition or tired, exhausted; remember how many times we sit here without ministers and you have to act, but you don't know whether or not to stop the meeting. How many times do you get support from your coalition partners? I think exhaustion is somewhere else. But usually personal exhaustion is worse when you know that something is not doing well; then it is much more exhausting than anything else, and I can tell you that. Of course I will vote in favour of your resolution. This time I will decide not only because you are the President of the National Assembly and we are talking about this function, but also because you personally, and this time you have not only personally hurt me, you have regretted me, but much more. And I hope that you will no longer be able to attend such performances in this National Assembly. I don't think it's healthy for anyone, even for a good feeling.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u81	The following are Mr Janko Weber and Mr Ferruga. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. At the moment when we are discussing the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, proceedings are also being held before the Constitutional Court, which is to decide on the decision to suspend the collection of signatures. This information already tells us that we have an uncleaned procedure which was created by the decision of the President of the National Assembly. The fact is that the legislative process starts in the National Assembly, either with a proposal submitted by a Member or a Member, or by a group of voters and voters, 5,000 signatures must be collected. However, at the time of the hearing concluded in the National Assembly, the legislative procedure shall not be terminated. With us, the legislative process ends at a time when there is also a request for a referendum. It's just that this moment hasn't arrived yet. When we talk about the abuse of the referendum, however, we must say that the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution came for this very reason. In fact, abuse has been largely eliminated in such a way as to determine certain criteria on the basis of which it can accede to the referendum. So when the National Assembly adopts the law, at the initiative of an individual supported by at least 2 000 500 voters, a procedure for the call for a referendum may be initiated. If all these procedures have been properly implemented by this point, as has been the case in this case, there may also be a time in which we must collect 40,000 signatures of the electorate and electorate. And these are the guards who are talking about abuse, which are embedded in the Constitution and also in the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. Whether these guards are enough or not, we don't really know right now, because the signature collection isn't happening right now. And it will probably only come in the event of a decision by the Constitutional Court. But at that moment, we will again have an extremely unresolved situation when we have established laws whose legislative procedure has not actually been completed. In order to avoid this, I believe that it is still necessary to understand Article 3 of the Constitution, which speaks of citizens and citizens exercising their authority directly and through elections, on the basis of the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial. The legislative branch of the Authority is the National Assembly, and I think that this is also one of those important data that would help clear the decision or resolve the situation. Today, some conclusions cannot be drawn precisely because everything depends on the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, I do not think that this is good for the work of the National Assembly, that we are directly dependent on how the Constitutional Court will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Janko Webra. Let me apologize to Dr. Jasni Murgel for letting her off the list. Dr. Brglez, would you like a word? Dr. Milan Brglez, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I will try to answer some of the dilemmas that have arisen so that my position will be clear at least on some of these matters. First of all, it is not about the eight or four constitutional lawyers that I have consulted, nor am I with all of them, nor have I asked to be supported by all of them in the matter. The fact is that the consultation was held with constitutional lawyers of various world-level definitions, even politically you are immediately aware that this is very different; and this is only after that or about when the police union withdrew its signatures, that is, before this last case actually happened. The fact is, by then, I had not seen any way out of what could have happened in this country, as far as the legislative process was concerned, on the basis of the abuse of the right to referendum. And if I now try to define this position first, some of these opinions, which are important, which I may quote more than once, but some of the facts of how these lawyers were defined, from public records. I am not mediating what has been directly mediated, but basically corresponds to it. The one that I also greatly appreciate and who has already attacked this position several times, and then, in the end, this attack was not done in the same way, even in the Constitutional Court itself, on the conduct of this national assembly, mag. Matevž Krivic says that the use of a referendum brake against purely third laws merely because of opposition to the government is a school case of abuse of rights. Dr. Matthew Avbelj, on the contrary, says: "The President of the National Assembly must reject the obvious abuses of the right to referendum; if he does otherwise, he himself violates the Constitution." It's magic again. Matevž Krivic: "Legislatively illiterate politicians teach citizens literacy instead of taking into account the meaning of the law as a whole." And that also today, in response to the doctoral candidate you quoted me as a doctorate in human rights law, is Mrs Pio Rawter, who says, "No matter what the Constitutional Court thinks, it will be his act" – that is, mine – "remains illegal." Where, though, is such an opinion vis-à-vis the Constitutional Court?Oh, my God! High above him. There is nothing else I can comment on here; but I know that constitutional lawyers can have their own opinions on individual decisions, and I allow that. I know the academic world and this is not wrong; but not in politicians, not in those who are in this country, to stand up to the Constitutional Court is simply not possible. And no one can stand up to this position, nor can the Constitutional Court stand up to the Constitution itself, it is absolutely clear how and what. The next opinion is back from the mags. Matveža Krivica, in fact, criticises the weak legal culture of politicians, I'm not exactly going to point out. What I would like to point out is Dr. Andraza Terška's opinion: "It is the right thing to do, it is a proper reference to the Constitution, politically legitimately responsible, so it is substantively justified, and also courageously." Dr Ciril Ribičič: "Referendum decision should be based on changing the situation of migrant workers, otherwise the use of justice contrary to its purpose." Dr. Tone Jerovšek: "The President of the National Assembly is the first obstacle to abuse. If only I had the role of a postman, his role would be meaningless." Here I point out that we are not going to equalize conscience on one side and willpower. The exercise of your own conscience cannot possibly be willful and stand behind what you do, nor can it. We do not know the decision of the Constitutional Court; this procedure is procedurally absolutely premature. Those who could judge and then look for political consistency, so that's the opposite. Legal first, then political; not political first, then legal. Of course, I imagine that you will first be political and then legal and once again political. Usually these things go this way, but that's right. Dr. Sasha Zagorc: "This is a violation of the right to a referendum initiative that cannot enjoy legal protection." Which means, in fact, if the abuse of rights is objectively identified and objectively identified, at least from repetition, there is a fact that you can attribute to everything. But some are, of course, objective facts that you know. The fact is, I've always been careful about this; and I also think it goes on, during the subjective assessment of whether this is an abuse; and an objective assessment of whether it is an abuse. There is something objective that is externally evident and that you can refer to; while subjectively my opinion on these matters is. I think this distinction is one of the key things in this process. Furthermore, it is not about trying to be self-involved, but I realize the meaning of what was done. I said that if I didn't do it now, then I would have allowed any further abuse. Why? Since such practice could be invoked and then simply based on the argument of abuse of rights no more in accordance with the procedure. However, procedures are very clearly defined by the time it is necessary, and the seven-day deadline is very clear. And within that seven-day period, even after the Constitutional Court has instructed the President of the National Assembly to prevent abuses. At that time it was the abuse of political parties, but this regulation remained the same at these points, and this initial part of the procedure has been regulated in the same way since the beginning. And this is a reference to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, not in both, but in the one you refer to, as I normally add to it, because it is even more explicit, more clear. The President of the National Assembly with such conduct presents, of course, the National Assembly. Next opinion, Dr. Igor Kaucič: "The President of the National Assembly had to verify the legality of the referendum initiative. Abuse is clear when it is obvious that the referendum has been used for other purposes, such as this." Dr. Mark Novak, written long before this case, but travels that such rejection should have been done when the abuse was only subjectively established, rather objectively. He says, "You just don't have the legal interest and the point. If this applies to all legal proceedings, this should also apply." Therefore, it follows from the argument of general legal rights. Another of his opinions: In such a case, when the right to a referendum is clearly abused for things not concerned and the applicant even admits that it is an expression of civil disobedience, this right is simply rejected or procedurally rejected." I didn't think I'd go that far. Everything I did, I didn't sign my hand, I didn't reject it. And then he goes on to say, "You just don't have a legal interest." I certainly say that this is followed by the distinguished legal experts I have consulted. Until then, I didn't know that this possibility actually existed. I didn't see it. All, so called from the left and from the right, claimed the same thing, that in this case it was possible to do what was right. However, I am absolutely aware that, following this decision, we urgently need a decision from the Constitutional Court, which will set the criteria for moving forward, criteria for such cases, which will not be as clear as this. The criteria, which would also prevent abuse of power, must be. In this case, I am pleased that I have also said publicly that the application to the Constitutional Court has taken place. I hope that the Constitutional Court will decide in this case because it has to set these criteria. In a situation where the National Assembly is unable to amend the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative and the additional fact, no, it is not capable, things are being checked on all sides at all, and we have not opened these articles. These articles were not even the ones to be opened, but we copied them more or less from the previous regulation at this point. Of course, the burden of proof has changed and so on, but we have the practice of the Constitutional Court, which says it is possible – and this is why it is not the National Assembly – because it is already delayed in the proceedings. Within seven days, the invitation to tender must be decided, and then the abuse has already been confirmed and you can no longer refer to it because you have found it. What I want to say in this regard is the basis of the Constitution itself, my basis is the Constitution, I have always referred to constitutionality, very clearly defined articles which are in the decision or in my letter, which is the same because I have concluded this procedure. And, of course, there's a possible complaint about that. On what basis will this be dealt with in a procedural manner, I don't even care. What is important is that he needs such a decision for principle reasons. And if it did not come on the basis of the initiative of those who were instigators, i.e. the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia, if it did not come to their initiative, I would try to bring the proceedings in the National Assembly to a decision or definition by the Constitutional Court because we need clearer criteria. This case was really exciting. Another example would be far more difficult to determine and, of course, the legal void could not be a basis. For certain actions, the guidance of the Constitutional Court is also an appropriate basis for those who have to implement the legislation because they say what is in it. The very definition of the abuse of rights comes from the interpretation of our Constitution as defined by the Constitutional Court; and not from anything else. I agree with the opinions of some of my predecessors that it is part of the debate on what could be and how existing legislation could be bypassed and in some way the recipe for how to circumvent this legislation. Clearly, after this decision, the initiators will try to abuse this matter in a completely different way, even if they want to abuse it. In a completely different way, this case will be put in such a way, but luckily again, we have our Constitutional Court, which may at times also be recognized by some other purpose for explicit referendum initiatives. And I hope that this decision will not remain on the shoulders of any President of the National Assembly. Another such thing that I have to say is why I did not respond to the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and the same opportunities and to all this reference. The first part is absolutely clear, last week I was abroad, today after the obstruction by Members, and on the other hand by basic non-conclusion, as I said – you can't be a prosecutor and a judge at once in a certain procedure. And it is clear for this procedure that in the end he will have someone to judge matters, but it is not only the National Assembly that he can judge politically; it is not legal at all. And this legal one and whoever has a legal interest went to the Constitutional Court and put the matter there. At the same time, it would appear that before the item on the agenda called the Proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly on the basis of the signatures of at least ten Members, since this is a basic condition, this is also a relatively simple condition to ensure that a mother's working body in the National Assembly has been declared a mother. Come on, this is not in the Rules of Procedure, and I will not allow this; it is out of the pure dignity of the President of the National Assembly to go to a committee where permanent violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are taking place, which cannot be done, because, indeed, after the present Rules of Procedure, every president of the home working body is much more free, arbitrary if you want, than the President of the National Assembly, who has at least a very clear session compared to everything else. These initiatives, which are, must be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as well as parliamentary practice. I don't think that's gonna work. This is my opinion, it is not possible, but it is easy for someone to ask what my responsibility is, that the presidents of individual working bodies do not do what they should do according to the Rules of Procedure. I have a chance to do something, but in the name of democracy, I won't do it. And on behalf of democracy, everyone in this House has come to the floor, however business and other matters are now. Everyone else has come to the point, no one has literally been cut off from being able to do what they are. I think that democracy is crucial so that we can discuss matters. But when we come to a decision, it's up to the majority. That's right, that's right, that's right. The only exception that could be – and here is the limit to democracy – is the existing human rights, if the matter is such as to extend particularly to minorityism, but in the broadest sense of the word, the minority of human rights. A minority also has certain protected rights in which it is not permitted to intervene in any way. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry. My thought was very simple when the whole thing was going on. If I had done anything procedurally wrong, the Constitutional Court would have given me this very clear warning and would have really missed my slap. I didn't miss a slap. In fact, it has been said that the legal basis has been misapplied and that this law has been unconstitutional for twenty years because it does not allow viewing on both sides in the same way. But I was, and I admit it, but I was part of that majority who made that decision and who felt that it was acceptable. The fact is that such a law can only be amended by a constitutional majority, which is not in this national assembly, but for many other things that would be necessary. As far as the word fascism is concerned. I made it very clear, and I also made it very clear why I said so myself why I had it written down. I say no to anyone, so I say no to fascism. Fascism. I don't hope to insult anyone by being a fascist. The other side that's attacking me is hoping for it. Yeah, that's what you're hoping for. The future Members will obviously use this vocabulary against anyone. But that's a fact. [[advertising from the hall]] Please! I can't say it myself. But I am absolutely behind the fact that I am and will always say no to fascism and Nazism, which are evil in themselves; you cannot abuse them. And on the other hand, as I have also clearly said, against all the abuses of communism which have been made; but so far there has been nothing else in this world but the abuse of communism. Every incarnation was an abuse. But because I know ideology, history, origin, you can take it out of Christianity and so forth, it's very diverse to say these things; but to distinguish one idea from another. One is the glorification of someone above others on an ethnic basis, and the other is something else that is placed within the same ethnicity. I don't define myself any more, but for me, there is a fundamental difference between one and the other. One evil is by itself: but another was evil always when it was used. It was mentioned that I refused, I don't know how many thousands of stimuli. If these matters were to be looked at very closely, however, the procedures so far do not lead to this very carefully, including graphically, whether it is different signatures, or whether it is the same or simply a search for whether they are electors or not; but it is not dependent on it. I think it was the same group after all the characteristics of the data collection. More than three times the same large group that usually presented itself over three thousand. What we usually get back from the Ministry of the Interior is stopped when there are about 2 000 500 and something over, then they don't check any further and it's not worth speculating about. One more thing I should say about that statement by Dr. Gorenak that I am lying and similar. Let's just say, I didn't have enough room to say anything in there. You have your share of the story, but the second part, the Income Act 1 and the Income Act 2 – is the exact same solution. One and the same solution, of course, with different promises. The legal basis for this complaint has been from then on because they both used the same basis; and this is global income. It was simply part of what, in part, already part of the heritage that concerned the interstate agreement and, on the other hand, part of the integration into the European Union and this kind of exchange of tax data that led to this. That's a fact. The second fact to be said on the same side is, I would say, the definition of faith and everything else is a little bit I can say something. [[…]] What matters to me is that I respect believers and faith, but I believe in science with all the wrongness of humanity behind it. Without it, I could not have worked earlier within the academic world, and without this guidance, which gives me a peaceful sleep, no problem after all, at least I say to myself that I have a clean conscience, I sleep completely peacefully in view of what I have done so far. But it's a completely different question, or everyone else can just look at themselves that way. But these are essentially intimate questions that are not so much connected to the function itself, but are linked to the person who is trying to fit this function. And I think that's enough for those explanations that I wanted to give right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. The text was requested by a representative of the Magi's proposer. Branko Grimes. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u86	Now I'm going to thank Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, very much for admitting what is essential to this story. I only hope that we are now being watched by all constitutional judges and also by those lawyers who supported them in order to give them a fair stake, namely these latter ones, to those lawyers. And the Constitutional Judges will know what time it is. For what you have said is totally unacceptable and, of course, flies on your account. What did you say? Yes, I had to claim that right because the National Assembly had not been convened, I quote, "because the hands were delayed." Now let's think about it, who is the person who should call the National Assembly so that the hands aren't delayed?Oh, my God! Dr. Brglez, you personally. This is what it means to be in the real state – because you have not done something, what you have now said you should do, you have taken a right that you do not have. You missed your deadline, which is rightfully unacceptable. To cover it up, you've usurped a right that you don't do under the Constitution. All your references and also the opinions of these lawyers, when they say that the procedure is such and such, have all overlooked something – the right belongs to the institution, the institution is the National Assembly. It may be that someone on behalf of the National Assembly is empowered to act individually, such as a working body, may sometimes also be a president or a college; but this must be explicitly specified in the relevant documents. But of course, you don't have the authority you took. It does not say anywhere that if the President of the National Assembly misses the deadline for the meeting of the National Assembly and therefore delays the possibility that the National Assembly should send a single matter to the Constitutional Court, the President of the National Assembly may be entitled to exercise his right and shall not respect that deadline and the right to withdraw it by failing to sign it. That's exactly what you've just said in your own words. This is absolutely constitutionally unacceptable. And I only hope that the Constitutional Court is now looking at this; if not, I will suggest to all those who are touched by this to send a magnetogram of this session to the Constitutional Court. However, I would suggest that the instigators complement their role, since it will be a crucial moment to understand the situation in the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly shall, by law, have a seven-day term for convening a meeting of the National Assembly, which may decide not to sign the referendum. The president of the National Assembly abandoned this act — either out of negligence or out of laziness, or out of thought; this is now purely irrelevant; the deadline has expired. In order to cover up this error, the President of the National Assembly has acquired a right that belongs only to the National Assembly as a whole; and after the expiry of this period he has simply compensated by not having called for a deadline for collecting signatures. This is a disgrace to the highest category you have just said, Mr President. You're supposed to be doing things in seven days. If you have not made a reference in seven days, you should set a deadline after seven days and then you could still decide, by the way, the National Assembly. Not that you take this right as you have it. This is not an excuse, this is not a justification; it is only a recognition of your own mistake, which you have now done, if you may not understand this. But do not say that there was no time to call the National Assembly or that you squandered the National Assembly because it was by chance the May Day. Many times in 25 years of history, the National Assembly was convened within 24 hours and has been convened many times even within 24 hours. If we wanted to, we could call the National Assembly peacefully. I'd like the National Assembly, according to the majority you have. It is very likely that it would have decided that, in the light of Article 21, matters could have contra-constitutional consequences by delaying the enforcement of the law or by refusing to do so. And in the case, the Constitutional Court would decide which, according to the article I quoted earlier, of the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Amendment to the Constitution in the field of the Referendum shall decide in a dispute, be careful, between the National Assembly and the proposer or the initiator. But to the National Assembly, and not to the Presidents of the National Assembly, you do not have this right as a person because it should be determined elsewhere and in a different way. But because you didn't do something because you missed that deadline and you were put in front of the fact that you should go in collecting signatures, but you simply said: I won't do it. It's not that simple. And no one has that right. I must say, I'm very glad that you said that out loud. The deadline is up, yes, and you've missed your deadline. We should set a deadline; and it's done. By then, the National Assembly could have decided peacefully without a deadline, then the deadline would have run; if it had decided later, the question would have been whether it was admissible or not. However, they would probably have taken such a decision, but then this debate would not have been possible. Then the Constitutional Court would decide, but the matter would be legally completely different, because the procedure would be respected, and the legal order would be respected. Above all, no one, including those I mentioned at the outset, based on the principles of trust in the law and could have been nicely drawn to their noses because they trusted in the rule of law and the rule of law, because they would not have done so. If anyone has overheard, I repeat for the third time, if what is now happening is completed, it will be as long as someone comes with an initiative, if the ruling coalition wants to avoid the referendum, it will wait for the seventh day, and then instead of the invitation to tender, the deadline will say, "Oh, it's an abuse," but someone will give a stupid statement that they will be referred to – so now we don't sign a hand, goodbye. And what then – the law will go into effect and then perhaps in time the Constitutional Court will decide otherwise. Who's gonna get back what happened? Probably no one ever; unless everything starts going backwards, which is really a very serious intervention in the legal order. This is what the Constitutional Court avoids, and you all know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u87	The answer follows the President of the National Assembly. Here you go, Dr. Brglez, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you. Even in the beginning, I made it very clear that my entire debate today is political precisely for the reason that the one who reads the whole matter can understand, but independently. We could know the law better, mag. Grims, on this question. You know that the President of the National Assembly has a seven-day deadline for his decision, for nothing but his decision to give his opinion in this case to the Legislative and Legal Service and that the counting of these signatures must be done by the Ministry of the Interior. These two procedural reasons are: when the President decides within this seven-day deadline, it is not up to anyone else, because it is up to the President of the National Assembly to decide. For the first time, I decided not to sign this deadline because there is an abuse of justice, an objective abuse of justice. Only at this stage of the procedure can this be ascertained. In the subsequent stages, this reference is no longer available and the dispute with the Constitutional Court concerns exactly four indents. And these four indents are very narrowly interpreted by the Constitutional Court in the light of the practice so far; not wide, without anything being inclusive, but much more decided than these indents have been put in place; and even at some point against the will of the legislator who was the National Assembly. This is a fact, we know the practice, and this practice would not prevent abuse. The only one who was able to act at this stage is myself in the capacity of the President of the National Assembly. I expect such interpretations, which is why this cavalette is very clear at the beginning of my speech, because only political debate and no other is possible in this national assembly. The argument expressed here is always and everywhere political, there can be nothing else. And that's what I'd like to deny, it's not a delay, it's not a cover-up; it's a serious thought that's not very simple at all. It's not like that. Even when you see it on paper, before you sign it, I will look twice at this case if I drink, but I am not that much of a lawyer, but I still need to have an argument based on everything that the Legal and Legal Service wrote down on one hand, and I also warned in terms of the fact that the matter needs to be well argued; as constitutional lawyers and former judges of the Constitutional Court have put it on the other hand. I had no reason, because they had no interest in coming to my hand or anything like I said. No payment in this case shall be taken into account, nothing like that. It's simply a professional consultation, and there's a difference of opinion between each other, and the responsibility is ultimately taken by the person who has to sign this thing. Then what do we do from the whole thing and how do we get it out; we are already determining what will happen if it does. None of this, if it is; but only when it is, will there be time for any further consideration and even consistency if you will. However, procedurally, the National Assembly will most likely be able to do so at all times, regardless of whether I run it or run it by anyone else. I don't see much trouble with that. However, I think that the procedure itself, given the weight and the importance of this decision, which urgently needs certain safeguards to not be misused, is at least in the definition of the Constitutional Court until such a definition changes the legislation and the case stands. And if it departs from this, there will have to be very legitimate reasons for the Constitutional Court to be judged again, by someone else. It is not just the light of the sky above us, at least in this case the Constitutional Court will decide in the end, and above all of us is the Constitution, which we must respect. And there's no choice here, there's no compromise here, nothing else. So I wanted to clearly position myself towards this tendingly wrong interpretation of what happened, and also putting words in my mouth. No, it wasn't meant to cover anything up, but the procedures here are clear. It's clear who has to do things within what time frame. Time limits are binding on me and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u89	Representative of the proposer, you wanted a word. Here you go, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u90	If I haven't been precise enough, let's do it again. You said it yourself. The hands are tied. We agree on that. There is a seven-day period within which you should either convene or convene the National Assembly, and it would have decided not to sign a referendum to remove the obligations arising out of the law; or it should have set a deadline for the collection of signatures no later than seven days by midnight. You let the deadline run out. This deadline is not a time limit that would give you the right to decide whether it is substantively one way or another, or whether it touches the area of this union and everything else you wrote there; it has the right to accept, as an assessment, the National Assembly. If the National Assembly had decided not to sign such a referendum, you would have no obligation to sign the deadlines. But since the seven-day deadline had expired, you did not do what you did — and then you said: now I will not call. And you didn't do anything at home. However, people could wipe themselves under their noses and remain without an effective legal remedy. Once again, not only those in the union, but also all those who have signed things; and they have certainly signed them in the majority of the good faith. Above all, all those who were misled when they were informed that someone had already collected the signatures, that the formal matter had been filed, and they intended to give their signature later, which is at least 40,000 signatories. Above all, all those who were counting on this option in one way or another. And probably someone would go to collect signatures – I'm sure in at least two cases they would go — if people weren't already informed that someone had immediately collected signatures and filed them. And they said - okay, the formalities are satisfied and the thing is going to be glass, we'll take over then and we'll move on with it. But you took a right you don't have. Once again, if the institution of the National Assembly has any right, it may have an individual on behalf of the National Assembly, but if the President, who is only the first of the same and nothing else, by the way, according to our arrangement; or if he has a part of the National Assembly, let's say, a working body, he may have the power to act individually on behalf of the National Assembly. But it has to be explicitly written in the Rules of Procedure as, say, a legal act, or a constitutional act, if you want, or in some law, such as the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the like. In this case, you do not have such a right and therefore the procedure was wrong, so this is a dangerous precedent. Once again, very simply – I hope we understand each other now – you should either set a deadline within seven days or call the National Assembly if you thought something was wrong. But let not the seven-day period expire, but let not the deadline be fixed, nor the assembly of the State be convened. This is a shortcut, a shortcut that has no basis in any legal act, and this shortcut is a dangerous precedent. For if anyone could have allowed himself to exceed a certain limit, he would not have done what he had to do, and he justified it with such good intentions or other good intentions, such as by preventing abuse; then it would be the end of democracy, for then everyone would have done what he wanted. I hope we understand each other now. That's why it was my introduction, and I've been asking you this from the beginning as a question. Specify the legal act, the name, the title of the act, the article, the paragraph under which you, as President of Parliament, have the power to decide whether or not a matter is materially appropriate. Under all the legislation I see, you have only the right to decide whether it is formally appropriate. It is said that a sufficient number of signatures is sufficient to verify that an appropriate issue has been raised and so on. And if all the conditions are met, there are only two options: whether you schedule a deadline for collecting signatures by midnight at the latest, or have already called the National Assembly to decide not to call a referendum; and you are automatically committed to this. The omission of these acts and the acquisition of the powers of the National Assembly have those elements of which I have spoken, on the one hand, is the usurpation of power and the apparent abuse of the position; on the other hand, this is negligence, because you have not done what you are legally obliged to do, irrespective of the justification which may be such or different.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I was thinking of congratulating the new vice president and wishing him a successful job, and they've already changed. I would like to give a few words to the genetics of the formation of our doctrine, which is linked to the abuse of the referendum in our constitutional profession, in the legal profession in the Republic of Slovenia. In 2003, the Constitutional Court repealed the Act on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other States Successors of the former SFRJ. The law that took away the permanent residence of the deleted has been annulled. Then came the adoption of the so-called Systemic and Technical Law to regulate the situation of deleted persons. This was followed by a large number of proposals for a referendum aimed at somehow preventing the implementation of legislation aimed at remedying the violations identified by the Constitutional Decision. And even then, when the Constitutional Court has repeatedly ruled that the abuse of the referendum is not permitted, it has created some jurisprudence that is useful for today, even in this case. The Constitutional Court has stated how it feels about malicious referendums — that they are forbidden and must not be tolerated. In the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was published 17. 6. 2004, and I will quote it, it was said, "If the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly were to identify such aims of the initiator, it should, within the scope of the possibilities offered by the Referendum and the Human Initiative Act, prevent the call for a referendum." Here, the Constitutional Court has only said that, for example, in the context of the requirements, the issue must be clearly expressed, the requirement must be reasoned; and by laying down rules to raise certain questions; that the reasons why the President of the National Assembly himself should also prevent the call for a referendum may also be different from that set out in the law. Thus, somehow this legal basis for the decision of the current President of the National Assembly was based on this practice of the Constitutional Court, which was mainly produced by the Slovenian Democratic Party in its strong desire not to give effect to the constitutional decision relating to the deleted. After this violation of human rights in the case of deleted persons, we are known throughout Europe. The Council of Europe, the European Court of Human Rights decided on this and it was a mass violation of human rights. This has been proven, this has been found by several courts, our court, the Constitutional Court and also the European Court of Human Rights. This was a mass violation of human rights. Infringement of the rights of one person is not a mass violation of human rights, and this violation has also been remedied if we are already talking about the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party; unless you think that his right, which has been violated, is more than the rights of other citizens. It would also be a mass violation of human rights if the Partnership Law had not been enforced. This would also be a mass violation of human rights, as this law aims at eliminating discrimination against persons of the same sex. And here too was the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, with the exception of the leader of the parliamentary group against this law. I don't know what happened to the leader of the Jozet Tank delegation that he voted for this law, maybe at the last minute, he changed his mind. This proves that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group or the Slovenian Democratic Party has repeatedly voted in favour of human rights violations or has been on the side of human rights violations. That is why I do not think he can make any judgments about this here; and Parliament itself is not competent to judge whether, in this case, there has been a violation of the Constitution or the law in the decision of the President of the National Assembly. That is why I do not think that we can do this here, so I will also oppose this proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u93	Proposer, please, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u94	Just one sentence. Dr. Murgel, I hope we agree on something. You said that he would be obliged to act within his powers to prevent abuse; that it was in the Constitutional Court's judgment. We both agree this far. What's the big deal? What's the problem? In that he has the authority to convene a meeting of the National Assembly, which he may decide to do so. But not to allow the deadline to expire, but then to decide, instead of the National Assembly as a whole, not to sign the deadline just because it is already late, and by the way, it is his fault; and thus, it leads to an irreversible legal situation. Laws go into publication, even if it is subsequently proven that everything was wrong and all decisions were wrong, it is virtually impossible to return to its original state. It's called legally irreparable damage, which we both know. Therefore, such conduct was not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare himself for Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. We always share opposition and coalition in our Parliament, which is nothing new. Our opposition colleagues always see and find some things that might be very nice in some public way like grabbing as some sort of bone to starve. And as my associate Mr Grimes would say, the story begins to unfold. I might be looking at these things differently and seeing them. It seems to me that we in Slovenia have all the problems with understanding democracy. Each one interprets it in his own way, each one wants to know and see it in his own way and to act accordingly. We have now reached a precedent where we can see that a group that had a certain interest, but with this power acquired by signatures, can shape the fate of all laws that do not concern it at all. This is a major problem for me, including the substantive problem, because as long as this group is fighting for its laws and rights, referendum law is also one of those where they have legitimacy and where it is clearly possible to give them all the support and power. And that's beyond a doubt. And now we must return to this matter with Mr. Brglez. I believe that his action in this particular case is courageous. Why brave? That he cut off the actual abuse of this institute of referendum for certain things for which this group wanted to prevent further work, is called the National Assembly and the Government and at the final stage of the functioning of society. And that's unacceptable. We all have to somehow realize that we live in a society, that we live in some framework of some democracy, sometimes we interpret these framework of democracy in our own way, but we still have to define it as a game of man not anger. There you know exactly what you can do, what you can't do, and what awaits you if you break the rules. And that's very important in that. As far as I am concerned, of course we cannot accept this, as colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party will require. I think that Mr Brglez has done his job correctly and that there is no need for his exchange, because it is important that we have some calm rational activity and not to despair, even here within Parliament, about wanting to have some extremism or some extreme, tension; because there is no time or time appropriate for it. I think we must be so responsible that we are actually trying to take this precious homeland to the right track of some calm, rationality and future vision. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u97	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u99	Mr President, I propose that you explain a few principles to all present. That every general act, that we do not speak of the Constitution law at all, generally touches everyone and everyone. It is said that this talk of how something of their competence is or is not related to their goals; it is very much on the shabby ground. Secondly, division into position and opposition is the most normal thing in democracy, because in this way democracy works. And it's very strange to set a starting point — well, we're splitting up into positions and opposition again. For the role of the position is constitutional, that it chooses and accepts; and the opposition is constitutional, that it controls. And third, when it starts all over again with that unfortunate expression of abuse. As long as there is a link between legislative adoption in Parliament in one way or another with the possibility of giving referendum initiatives, there is always a way to make use of it. Whether someone calls it abuse or not, it doesn't matter. But it's a chance to make the most of it. And if he wants to stop this once and for all, please listen to me once, I've been saying this for ten years. Let's go to one consultation and talk about the Swiss model of referendum, to separate this once and for all, and that one is the direct decision of the people and the other is the decision in Parliament and that the decision in Parliament is completely undisturbed. Parliament shall exercise its function; if the people decide otherwise at any time, it shall be the case, otherwise there is no possibility of any effect or blocking the legislative process. This would raise the quality of democracy and, on the other hand, avoid any such situation as it is now; however, we can do it, it will certainly happen again in one form or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Jean Mahnic and the Mag. Lilliana Kozlovich. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking my colleague Grims, who explained a little about the foundations of parliamentary democracy when his colleague Ferruga explained that it was a shame to share in the opposition and coalition. I can also refer to today's debates by the President of the National Assembly when it comes to totalitarianism, he always mentions two; the third he takes with a big lump in his throat, he says, were misinterpretations. Now he is not here, I would like to give him quite a few words; I hope he will come during my debate. For the first time, I would like to remind him that in 1933, Friedrich Hayek wrote to his chairman as a professor at the London School of Economics about the phenomenon of national socialism. He wrote exactly what happened on 30 January 1933 and even later after the death of the German president in 1934, when Adolf Hitler became Prime Minister and President of the State, when he merged two functions into one and also became Commander-in-Chief of the German Army. Friedrich Hayek wrote that communism as a third totalitarianism had failed for the first time in twenty years, especially in the then Soviet Union, to mutate and mutate into two systems that had not yet been found. These two systems of mutation of the first type of socialist or communist system then came out after Stalin into German national socialism and Italian fascism. They were all socialists. You can read about Mussolini, the president of the National Assembly, stories or autobiography in the Evening pad right now, so that he can see that all three totalitarians have come out of socialism, that is, for good purposes, where we will all be equal. So much for this history. And national socialism began its campaign by overthrowing, opposing and destroying the opposition in the German Bundestag. We also monitor this modus operandi in 2016. The next modus operandi 2016 is revealed to us by someone who acted unconstitutionally, both he and his coalition, when he took away the mandate. It is also evident when she is not in the hall of colleague Irgle. When she spoke, I think Mr Brglez looked him in the eye, explained to him, reasoned in her manner as always. Mr. Brglez has made it clear that he's abusing his commission. If you violate someone's right to a referendum, it's probably a violation of human rights. Now we've had some mathematical models, some of the coalition have been talking about how many people have been violated by justice. My colleague Murglov, for me, 3,000 signatures times six laws is 18,000. So we're approaching the number of deleted that you mentioned and thank you. So we have 18,000 victims in the first phase of this act. However, I would also like to point out that Mr Milan Brglez, as President of the National Assembly, does not have any powers to exclude. The law and the Constitution specifically stipulate that he must do so; the Constitutional Court is the guardian who can prevent the abuse of the referendum. I think that's clear. What is mentioned at the very least today is Article 153 of the Constitution, which speaks of the actions of the State authorities and their institutions, namely those which are not based on certain laws or legal rules, is exactly what Mr Milan Brglez did, which I am reading to him. What will be the result in the Constitutional Court, and what I myself wonder, as my colleague Dr. Toplak wonders, will be the following. Dr. Toplak also wrote the following words at dinner, which I think are important, and I agree with that. "The President of the National Assembly will have to show before the Constitutional Court that he has had to make an urgent decision on the non-continuation of the referendum procedure, even though the legislation does not give him this power. He's going to have to prove that there's really been an abuse of rights. That he did not violate the Constitution when he sent the laws into the proclamation without waiting for the conflict to end. That he didn't violate the Constitution when he didn't give them a chance to defend them, explain the complaints. That he did not violate the Constitution when he concluded on the basis of some other referendum initiatives submitted by that same society. That by rejecting the initiative of one society, he did not violate the rights of individuals who were not associated at all with migrant workers and who gave or intended to sign against the law,... I would ask if you would listen, colleagues, because I think you will benefit when you receive the answers of the Constitutional Court." ...in an honest belief that marriage is bad. That he weighed the 35-day delay following the entry into force of the law on one hand and the intervention in the rights of the supporters of the referendum on the other hand and that the swift implementation of the law is more important than the 35-day wait for signatures." Once again, dear colleagues and also the public, "One of these laws will not apply until nine months later. If Brglez were to please the tenderers, the only consequence of his consent would probably be a 35-day delay in the application of this law." In what way will colleague Brglez, with his legal experts, justify the decision to cut past the Constitution, past the legal basis, for a law that will barely enter into force, that is, validity, vacatia legis will be in nine months' time?Oh, my God! This is also part of my debate, which is perhaps a bit broader, this part of the argument that we are talking about today. I see that there is no great interest, dear colleagues, as always, in my colleague Irgle. At the end of my debate, I would not be too long; I would reply to those who today have received a selective hearing of some human rights on the Petitions Commission. I was on all the committees, even when we discussed it. The president too, we can say, conducted all these meetings of this commission, including when we were addressing topics such as, say, Roma issues, issues of violence against older people, violence against children, women, when we were currently dealing with abuse of social work centres and so on. We were always present there – colleague of Irgle, colleague of Gorenak, and perhaps one of our colleagues. You, your well-respected coalition colleagues, come there when your themes are so called. When your friends from some NGOs come there, there are so many of you there that sometimes even colleagues who are permanent members of this commission don't get a place to sit. I reject any suggestion to me and my colleagues that we should treat human rights selectively, that when it somehow suits us, we should only draw from this bag of human rights those who answer us and leave others in this bag. As a Democrat, I treat all human rights violations with the same weight and am concerned. Comrade Brglez spoke today about the abuse of the commission. Most of all, according to the statistics of the European Court of Human Rights, we are the biggest human rights violators in Europe after the violation of human rights per million people in Slovenia. Perhaps you could only tell us that we have too few meetings to deal with too little. Unfortunately, however, we are dealing mainly with those of Irgle's colleague, who is taking over the work and himself, which other committees do not do because they do not see it. A colleague recently did not call on the Justice Committee twice when it should have been because it was an important issue. Today he is the Vice-President of the National Assembly, which I do not acknowledge, because we are well-intentioned; but unfortunately we find violations of human rights in every other law. That's why this committee is so important. And it is also important after the last act of Mr. Brglez. This action is, we can say that in the third it goes willingly, i.e. after the constitutional withdrawal of the mandate, after his catastrophic declaration that postwar genocide is natural. You can also see his personality, his selective treatment of certain rights, his selective insensitiveness to one of the totalitarianisms, which is unacceptable to the President of the National Assembly of a country that is a member of the European Union. It's unacceptable. Such a person in modern democracy, modern Slovenia, which celebrates these days for 25 years, does not deserve such a city. Not because of the last act, but because of the first act. Let me remind you – as well as my colleague Brglez, if he listens to me – of the basic charter, the fundamental constitutional charter of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by our former colleagues on 25 June in this National Assembly. The fundamental constitutional charter in one of its articles speaks of the fact that the former State of the SFRJ does not act as a legally regulated State and that it is a mass violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. This was one of the greatest grounds for Slovenians as a nation to be made in 1991 and to declare their own country, respected colleagues and colleagues! Let's never forget that! And my colleague, Brglez, would like to ask – recently he had a debate on the liberation front, when he spoke selectively again about the half-lived history – to go look at all 620 mass graves, then he might see what it means to disregard human rights. Here, my colleague is here, and I think he'll be able to answer these questions. I will conclude my debate with this case. It was an act of great will by the President of the National Assembly. The guardian we are talking about, the guardian of the use of the referendum, namely the right to use the referendum, this guardian of the Slovenian democratic system knows, this protector is called the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as the largest political and legal act, is also the largest political act since the adoption of the Constitution is the greatest consensus of policy, and it clearly gives instructions that the President of the National Assembly must sign this deadline and must not decide on other matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today is a symbolic day, May 17. 26 years ago, the Slovenian Army was established with the establishment of the Manevre structure of national protection. On this occasion, I congratulate all members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces on their 26th birthday. In addition, Milan Kučan was indicted today against the former President of the Central Committee of the Union of Communists of Slovenia for treason and sabotage. In addition, today in the National Assembly, on this symbolic day, we are discussing a violation of democratic principles, a violation of the legal principles of the Republic of Slovenia, which were committed by Dr Milan Brglez, President of the National Assembly. I must say that I will support his discharge for the second time in this term. I'm sure it's probably not the last time. I hope that Mr Brglez, with the tie he had before – now on vacation, you have replaced it with a red tie on which he had the sign of the University of Ljubljana, to in some way report that he is slowly returning to the University – has stopped practicing democracy in this National Assembly, which has been doing everything since the beginning of his term. Earlier, Mr Brglez had been vehemently explaining how my fellow Member, Eva Irgl, would not walk because there was an ecclatanal violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If we somehow mirrored this at the meetings of the National Assembly, then the Slovenian Democratic Party could also say that it would not attend the meetings of the National Assembly because the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are being scrupulously violated here; it would be someone other than Dr Milan Brglez who has proved this several times. Even yesterday, despite not being satisfied with all the points of the Rules of Procedure, he added to the meeting of the National Assembly, I think for Friday, item of the agenda, the appointment of a new Minister for Culture. Regardless of what Dr. Brglez read in his debate, I must say that the same opinions of the same lawyers he read today were lacking in the debate in the National Assembly when it was decided to withdraw the mandate of our Member, the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša. The same lawyers wrote their opinions at the time, and then we read them here in this National Assembly, and Mr Brglez whistled at them. Today's opinions of the same lawyers – in the meantime you have hired the daughter of one of these lawyers as a professional member of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre – read by Dr. Milan Brglez. Interesting, ironic and two-faced. Just as it is appropriate for the President of the National Assembly to take democracy into his own hands, which interprets democracy in a way that Lukashenko would not be ashamed of. Dr. Yuri Toplak, who then and even now wrote a constitutional opinion, wrote it like this, I will read it even though some words have already been read by Mr Breznik; but it is better to hear it twice than never. "The President of the National Assembly will have to show before the Constitutional Court that he has had to make an urgent decision on the non-continuation of the referendum procedure, even though the legislation does not give him this power. He's going to have to prove that there's really been an abuse of rights. That he did not violate the Constitution when he sent the laws into the proclamation without waiting for the conflict to end. That he didn't violate the Constitution when he didn't give them a chance to defend them, explain the complaints. That he did not violate the Constitution when he concluded on the basis of some other referendum initiatives submitted by that same society. That by rejecting the initiative of one society, he did not violate the rights of individuals who were not associated with migrant workers at all and who gave or intended to sign against the law in the sincere belief that the law was bad. That he weighed the 35-day delay in the implementation of the law on one hand and the intervention in the rights of referendum supporters on the other and that the swift implementation of the law is more important than the 35-day wait for signatures." I agree with Dr. Toplak here. I will only comment in the last two matters, "that the swift implementation of the law is more important than the 35-day wait for signatures. There was no such law, since no such law has ever been applied in this term, either, in order to [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, that's already the third tie today, Dr. Horvath, you got it right. Fourth, the president says. In short, the coalition has not yet adopted a law in this term of office, so that it should be in force within 35 days or that 35 days could not be postponed. Except when we adopted Article 37a of the Defence Act, and because of the situation we had at the border and in the country itself, it was really in a hurry. And at that time, it appeared that the referendum was really meant to be delayed by those supporters of migrants who wanted to block this process under some pretext of demilitarisation. And the other is, "that by rejecting the initiative of one society, he did not violate the rights of individuals". How can Dr. Brglez guarantee that all these signatures that have come are just signatures of those who are members of this union. Many of them may be those who disagreed with these laws and have thus signed them. Then what about their right not to sign in order to go along with Dr. Toplak in his opinion says, to guess. And we probably agree here. The migrant workers have decided to do so. I am sure that we all agree on the way this is a matter of bargaining; but if this is not in law, it cannot be done as did the President of the National Assembly. It is only necessary to sit down with all the parliamentary groups and consider what will happen in the future in order to avoid such situations. Because the President of the National Assembly will be able to say the next time another initiative comes — it is an abuse, I will not react, I will not set a deadline for collecting signatures. We've been skating for 25 years of democracy. The way this democracy is, we could be here discussing days and days, not just hours and hours, but moving ever further away from it. If 2 thousand and 500 signatures were collected, the President would have to sign off on the deadline, whether he was sure or not that it was a matter of speculation or whether he knew or did not know or anticipated that these 40,000 signatures would probably not be collected. If we agree to such a practice, then this is the end of democracy — the kind of democracy that was imagined by those who created this country 25 years ago. And in the end, which is essential and which proves how Dr. Brglez, as I say, is somehow following some kind of lukewarm and some other kind of... Do you know what he said to the question, would he accept responsibility if the Constitutional Court said that Dr. Brglez was wrong? He shall appoint the President of the National Assembly and may also be dismissed by 46 votes. It is said that he will not give up despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has shown him for the third time that he was wrong. For the first time, the removal of the mandate, the second time the ban on the referendum on the Family Code or on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, but that's where he voted as a Member. And thirdly, because he's directly involved in banning these referendums or collecting signatures. He's not giving up. State, it's me. The National Assembly, it's me. I am supported by the President of the Government, I am supported by Members who are excited about democracy, despite the fact that they were full of the mouths of democracy and the rule of law before the elections. But if not sooner, in two years, we'll be at the top of the campaign if the elections are regular; then you'll get your portion.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the whole matter that we are dealing with today, there are some things that remain unclear, and I will refer to the record that was written by the President of Milan Brglez in Vecer, where he said, among other things: "What is often forgotten is that the law that affected migrant workers was adopted in 2006 at the time of the government of Janez Janša." And then at the conclusion of the requote, I quote: "And let them not forget when this law was passed – in 2006. At that time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was led by Mr Janez Janša and the President of the National Assembly was Mr France Tsukati, both important members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is those parties who today behave as if they had nothing to do with the status of migrant workers. But she has, for she has cooked all this mess." I think Dr. Brglez here has already replied something about this, but relatively superficially, because of this some additional information to the knowledge and in what has actually been happening all this time. Firstly, both laws, those in 2003 and 2005, have the same provision regarding taxpayers. With this difference, Mr Brglez, that in 2006, 2007, 2008 so-called migrant workers, Slovenian migrants did not charge and pay income. At that time they were not actually taxed with Slovenian income. In fact, the government of Janez Janša did not tax these workers on the basis of other articles in other laws, on the tax procedure and so on, which were adopted at the time. If we talk about it today, those who may have paid their income have received it all back. They were not taxed by the Tax Administration. And here, of course, you forgot to say it. This is, of course, half the information and then it's wrong, wrong information to use very correct terms. If you're talking about taxes in your records, then you need to look at them in full. In short, once again, during the government of Janez Janša migrant workers were not taxed with Slovenian income. Then came Mr Pahor's second government and Mr Križanič introduced in the Income Act a so-called higher relief for migrant workers of EUR 7 000 500, which was then declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. Indeed, agreements are under way with Apache, today the unions since 2005. And from 2005 to 2008, these cases were resolved in a way that was supposed to be resolved by the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation, and no further action had been taken since 2008. At that time, the government of Janez Janša also accepted the solution; but no agreement was reached, and then the Pahor government actually terminated those negotiations. That's the truth about it, I can go into details, I don't have time. I can also explain to you the individual meetings, including those where I was alone and led them with regard to the Apache Society, later with the union. This government solved the problem of that time for three years, that was the government of John Janša. Then the next government handled it differently. This gives rise to all the problems, all the problems and also your records. I think you're writing about it incorrectly. You're writing incompletely. Then a person has a hard trust if you simply overlook all these facts that are mentioned. At that time, Dr. Bayuk was the late minister. And in this regard, of course, I would expect, Dr. Brglez, that you simply take this into account – the facts as they are. And in this regard, I would also ask you not in any way to deceive the public, including the readers of the Evening, the Diary and so on, that the government of Janez Janša has done all this. The government of Janez Janša did so, and if the government of Mir Cerar had done something more, perhaps today neither today nor today would there have been anything else. But I can tell you the names from the Ministry of Finance, which are the ones who could do more than we did then. Since my colleagues have already told you everything else, I will only give you a slightly more comprehensive information in the information and say that this statement here is incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl and Dr. Dragan Matić. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The problem of working migrants is certainly one of those who drag on too long. Perhaps there is an injustice that should have been resolved long ago; nor does it excuse this fact that they have chosen a completely wrong path or some kind of civil disobedience, as they have clearly predicted. At the same time, there can be no doubt that in their case there is an abuse of the Institute of Referendum. And they also came up with a similar idea in their model when the police unions came along, and they saw in good time that this was not the right way to achieve legitimate goals. These day-to-day migrants have not made an effort to show even a minimum interest in achieving their objective. Probably has nothing to do with the Codex Marines and their problems. And that this is an eclectic violation of the right to referendum, is a fact that we probably cannot challenge. On the other hand, there is the President of the National Assembly, who is not anyone in this country. It has certain powers, a certain role, certain tasks and, among them, I think, it is also to protect the legal order, to protect the legal order, in particular to protect it from abuse. And the president of the National Assembly acted this way. On the other hand, I'm sorry, I don't know the details, I'm sorry that there was a deadline that could have been delayed where this complication or abuse could have been prevented in a more elegant way. I am convinced that most of us in this national assembly, if we were to decide on this type of abuse, would, of course, be against abuse and would not be discussing this issue for hours and hours today. I believe that there were certain reasons why this could not be done; and that he chose, in fact, the most difficult way possible for him. He made a decision as an expert. He relied on legal opinions, he relied on the Legislative and Legal Service, and I believe that, even when he realizes that he has such a decision, even though it is professional, especially political consequences. In doing so, he took full responsibility for himself. As a result, the president of the National Assembly acted courageously for some, including me. I think it is finally time that, not the National Assembly or institutions, such as the referendum as one of the highest forms of democratic decision-making, is not abused. I think there's a real man in the right place who can say "no" to such abuses of democracy. I am sure that legal practice in this area was needed at some point in the past. The dilemma here today, given that in most cases we are not legal professionals, we will not resolve it. We are acting on our conscience, and I think that we are all aware of why we are in the National Assembly; and therefore, we are most likely to defend the righteous work that he has committed himself to and for which the President of the National Assembly has also made his point; no matter what the decision of the Constitutional Judges will be in the end. However, I personally, although I am not a lawyer, believe that the law is not an easy reading and a literal quoting of legislation, but something more; that it has its purpose and that it is also decided primarily on the basis of what is written. Therefore, I do not personally question the correctness and appropriateness of the decision. This is also the reason why the proposal for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, of course, will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mr. Franz Jurša. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I will start with the so-called CIA – not the association on the other side of the Atlantic, but the Civil Initiative of the Apache or the civil society movement, which in this interim, transitional period has been renamed the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia. It is evident that people who walk with a belly for bread on the Austrian side of the border have their reasons for going there. They probably don't want to work in Austria, but the situation forces them to be able to cut off a better, thicker piece of bread there. Their story, of course, is not simple; in some ways, it can be a sad story; but surely there are problems that linger for quite some time. All of us would probably be pleased that the representatives of this union would not have had these problems at all and that they did not need to establish a union dealing with these problems. However, all of us together can be critical of the government, many times even some criticism is justified; but here, however, in this place, governments should not be criticized on average. However, this government has started, faces and also solves the problems of all these members of this union. I am sure that these conversations began by listening; and I am sure that the other side also hears what he wants to say. The fact is, it is my personal belief that the union representatives have chosen a method that is not appropriate, a method that is not okay. Any law that we will adopt in the National Assembly can be put at risk by a referendum or in the initial stage by collecting signatures for the referendum, literally bringing the country to a standstill, or stifling, this country, as well as our work, is devalued. We can pass laws here, as in the current lane, that will simply stop or at least be suspended if not completely stopped, for at least some time. We need to know what laws this is about, and of course it is not essential, but here we are talking about six laws that – I will still allow myself here – do not have a direct causal link to the problem that the Union of Migrant Workers of Slovenia is exposing. These are: the Law on the Implementation of the European Union Customs Law, the Law on Administrative Fees, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Maritime Code, the Law on Protection against Discrimination and the Law on Partnerships, which we have adopted after long complications and lengthy discussions in the National Assembly. In a way, I am also personally very happy that there are many peripeties or conflicting views behind us, including the referendum that regulated this issue; it is obvious that they are not quite behind us. Yes, the decision of the President of the National Assembly, which is now that narrower topic or item of the agenda. My colleague's decision, Dr. Brglez's decision was a bold, brave decision. I believe that also very well thought out, from a variety of aspects. However, I am sure, and I will not vote in favour of its resolution, that even the right ones, which they are squeezing, are also attached to the many lawyers who have also made this public statement. I believe that many of them, too, were consulted by their colleague Brglez before taking this decision. I do not want to talk about the institute of the referendum itself for long and wide, but at least I would like to underestimate the importance of the institute of the referendum, but I think that, in some way, through the frequency of the use of this institution, the very direct democracy itself can be divorced. I am in favour of us serving such or other referendum only when and above all when it comes to some strategic, key decisions that the State must make as such; and it also seems to the politicians that it is reasonable to ask citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia about this and after that. We also know what are the participations in the referendums, the crucial ones – Slovenia's entry into the European Union, even NATO, and what else can be found here; what are the participations when we talk about some matters that are of greater importance, which concern some very targeted groups of people; which issues we should not even ask people in terms of human rights, because they are about the defence capacity, the security of the state, and the financial and so on. When it comes to migrant workers, I believe that these discussions that have taken place – and this is positive, very positive – will continue and will end; and in the interest of all those involved, especially those that are most concerned, are the daily or weekly migrants serving in neighbouring Austria. At some points, this debate today has made me a little sad because I have felt — if I am wrong, I will be very happy — that at certain times the matter has also gone in some way to a personal level, which is certainly not appropriate and inappropriate. At this point, I am also slowly closing my debate, I will not guess, I will not prejudge, but what the Constitutional Court will say, and what the Constitutional Court will say. I am never personally and I do not think that there was any practice in Desus to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Although the last decision of the Constitutional Court put me on the verge of whether or not to comment when the Constitutional Court put itself on one side and decided, as it had decided, on STIZ-2 as regards voluntary inclusion in compulsory pension insurance. I will not prejudge what happens when the Constitutional Court decides whether the President has acted properly or not. However, I would expect the President of the National Assembly to be dismissed at least until the decision of the Constitutional Court is known that in some way he would not have prejudged this decision, or in this way he has accumulated – that is, of course, my personal opinion and I have the right to it – political points. I believe that the President has considered this decision well before taking any further steps to give him a good thought, to make the right decisions in the interest of democracy and, in particular, in the interest of democracy, or, if you wish, to restore the reputation of the National Assembly, which is also falling in many ways. As I say, I will not vote in favour of the dismissal of President Brglez. I believe he will remain President after today. I wish him a great deal of success and a successful leadership of the National Assembly in advance! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Prepare Mr. Franz Jurša and Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president of the National Assembly! This debate was a little confused about what new arguments had not been heard by the Slovenian Democratic Party, with the exception of repeated repetitions on the same issues. In the meantime, some more thesis appeared for refreshment. I have heard in Parliament several times the explanations of history by people who apparently consider themselves to be acquaintances. Mr Breznik, Mr Grims, who had not previously understood – for my purpose or for any other reason – Mr Brglez, when he explained. This thesis that all totalitarianism is the same, and also this thesis that national socialism and communism are the same because they come from socialism, forgive me, gentlemen, this is nonsense. National socialism stems from Nazi theory, from racial theory that one race is übermensch, a superhuman; the other race is not even human. These are Jews and they have to disappear. And in national socialism, the Jew could not turn, become a Nazi and survive; but it was meant to be sent to Auschwitz or some other camp and to end up in that world. That was the system. But the communist totalitarian system evolved from the theory of a worthless society where no human exploitation will occur. Then, for various reasons, he converted himself into a totalitarian system that can be compared to the first, after the multitude of the dead, and so on. But both of them aren't basically the same. Mr. Logar, please. Mr President, let Mr Logar calm down a little, because he obviously wants to say something and he can't wait. Similarly to Christian religion, Christian religion is something very positive, love of neighbor, compassion; but we know how it has been converted in history through crusades, religious wars, witch hunts, inquisitions. Again a multitude of the dead, a multitude of woes: but this is not evil. And that's what Mr. Brglez said, and you didn't understand him. We have an original evil, we have a system that reverses an idea that converts into something that was bad then. It's just a brief discourse that we won't always listen to how totalitarianism is the same. Dante’s hell has several circles for various sinners and degrees of sin. With regard to today's topic, there is no right to abuse justice, at least I haven't heard it anywhere. This is probably not a constitutional or legal category. That the adoption of laws had been halted or attempted to block by referendum initiatives, without those who had invested it having any legal interest or even knowing the contents of those laws, was more than demonstrated, since they did not even hide it. They just wanted to use it as a means to achieve their goal. And if now Mr Mahnic, who deals with fashion accessories, ties and related connections of experts, notes that there is no legal basis for preventing abuse, this is the logic that led to the fact that we have a law in a federal country in the United States that prohibits driving a car with blindfolded eyes; because someone found himself and drove around with blindfolded eyes on the road. Then they had to adopt such a law that it was forbidden; but that was a complete nonsense. If abuse comes from the nature of the matter itself, the one responsible for preventing it is obliged to prevent it; if not, it must bear moral and material responsibility because it has not done so. As to the claim that these problems with migrants were not in the time of John Janša’s government. It is true that the Income Act was passed in April 2004 or during the time of the Robbery Government, but as soon as December 2004 the Janša government proposed a amendment to this Act, the Marble Income Act, as a matter of urgency. Were there exceptions to migrant workers at the time? They weren't. They were in favour of capital. The new law was based on a reduction in the capital profit tax achieved by the removal of the majority equity share. The second option was in 2006. At that time, Janševa’s government under the competent minister, Dr. Bayuk, decided to thoroughly renovate and adopt a new law on income. And this guy was solving these problems for migrant migrant workers? Not at all. On the contrary, it has determined that the incomes of residents of Slovenia are taxed on global income, meaning that they are taxed in Slovenia from all income regardless of where the income is obtained; in terms of geographical origin of income. And then, it's interesting when you say everything was fine. At that time, in 2006 the same members of the Civil Initiative Apache protested against the government of SDS. On their demonstrations came the inscription, quote: "Austria gives us bread; you, Mr. Janša, Bajuk, Simic give us a stick." Then the government of Janez Janša acted foolishly in principle and in the spirit of the rule of law and in respect of the principle of equality of all citizens simply stopped sending the bills for the payment of income to all these migrant workers, although they probably did not need them. Then the Borut Pahor's government tried to resolve the matter by introducing a special relief amounting to EUR 7 000 and more, on the basis of which this inconvenience was then eliminated; but in 2013 the Constitutional Court found this to be an unfair tax privilege. And since this decision of the Constitutional Court has to be respected, there has now been this complication, which we are talking about, regarding migrant workers who are now trying to settle with the Constitutional Court's decision in such a way that they are applying for a referendum not in one case, but in larger plurals and quantities. And so could any interest group in this country. I know of one who is also in trouble, which is being unduly taxed. These are culturers, self-employed cultural workers. Since 2012, they have been treated in the same way as car mechanics, such as craftsmen who work like tables or furniture; and what they earn is treated as profit rather than income. They must pay some flat rates from this title on the basis of last year's volume of funds they have acquired, even though they may not have any work this year. Not to mention all the other social rights they do not have because of this status. They could also start applying for a referendum after the same recipe and then another group, third, fourth, fifth. In the end, we'd have a system paralysis, resulting in total chaos. Where can that get us? In this context, this move, which the President of the National Assembly has taken, is justified and I support. However, the Constitutional Court will give its final judgment and, on this case-by-case basis, it is likely to draw the line that these phenomena will no longer occur or that these problems will not occur. And as far as the rest is concerned, there's been a lot of saying here. It was said that there was some sort of totalitarian reflex. I don't know what that meant. Where there are many words, there is little sense, said Mr Grimes. But he's the one who's the marathon talker. And when he begins to debate, there is no end to the theft, one and the same difficulty is repeated in hours and hours. In this regard, he might have thought a little of himself. As for totalitarian reflexes, we do not have a party leader who would be a former official in the totalitarian system. We don't have one. Look at him, see how he taught Defence and Protection at Ivan Cankar's High School, talked about JLA as a shock fist system that needs to protect the social system and self-protection. He taught us all of this at the time. You know, we don't have that kind of leadership. Ask him what it's like to do with it; not to argue on Twitter with our president of the National Assembly as a passionate Twitterster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u113	Vice President, thank you for your word. Once again, all my colleagues and colleagues have a nice greeting! If you listen carefully to the debate we have in this Chamber, then you can quickly conclude, perhaps only the subject of another, conclusions, views, and conclusions of individuals are exactly the same. At the final stage, we are always looking for what government has ever done and why it has done something or why it has not done something. I recall that we have been discussing the day-to-day migrants in the National Assembly since I first came to this Chamber, this is the third term, and this has already been discussed. Every time there was someone in the opposition, he wanted to solve this problem vehemently. But when he was in the coalition, things looked a little different, especially because in some ways certain funds had to be provided so that public finances could function smoothly. If I start to talk about daily migrants, I have to say that the most daily migrants are from the area I come from – northeastern Slovenia. And these people actually went to Austria to work because they simply did not get a job in Slovenia, or they had such low wages and took advantage of the opportunity to earn more in Austria. However, it is necessary to carefully consider whether we are all under the same tax burden. These are facts, and without this somehow we will not be able to come to a common conclusion. The Constitutional Court has already stated certain matters in this area and we have never come to the end in Parliament. We always open things up over and over again. The position of our Group of Members has been clearly expressed. I must also say that my personal position does not differ from that of the Group. I personally appreciate that the President of the National Assembly took on a great deal of responsibility, brave and bold, when he decided to do as he did. But I must say, the only thing I resent him is that at least the coalition partners, if not the presidents or leaders of the parliamentary groups of parties, did not at least inform us of his decision. A little oil has been poured on fire by the President of the Government with one statement, where some of us felt, I will not say less valuable, a little less, but after growth we are quite pleased that we are as big as we are. I would recommend it to the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, because even in sport, as far as I know it, I regularly follow it, it is never good to hit the first ball. Dear colleagues, it would be wise for us to wait a while and then, once we have reached the conclusions or the Constitutional Court will decide, you will react accordingly. However, one concerns me very much, namely the question which is related to the proposal for an explanation for the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, as well as a proposal or a constitutional complaint against the decision of the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, not to set a deadline for the collection of signatures for the six-law referendum. The identical sentences were there and then I wonder whether the leadership of the daily migrants has prepared this matter for you, or was it possible the other way around. We can conclude very quickly. In view of your skill, knowledge, and experience, you might first conclude that this matter may have been produced in your kind. But that's my thinking. I'm not gonna say that I stand firm for what I said. However, at the end of the day, I would say something to my President of the Defence Committee because I felt the need to tell him. Dear Jean Mahnic, I would be very happy if you and your actors could sit down and tell us when the date is for the Slovenian Army to celebrate. If you decide on any date, I'll respect it. Above all, you who were not burdened with anything at the time because you were not there. As for Mr. Milan Kučan's criminal charge, however, I think it would be right to say that Mr. Milan Kučan is former president [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much. So we don't spread the darkness. Replica, please, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Jursha. Because I wasn't there at the time, I can unburdenedly talk about some things. Just for comparison – two days before Sunday’s celebration, which was first thought of as a celebration at the 25th anniversary of the Slovenian Army, they changed the title. And what was the address? 25 years of the Slovenian army in a separate state. Because they also know that the army is 26 years old.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. It's not enough time to respond to everything I've intended for, but very quickly. Let those of you who were in the National Assembly and those who were not in the National Assembly remind you of something quickly. In 2012, the rubber union, remember, brought signatures and demanded the collection of 40,000 signatures for exactly the same reasons. Same exact reasons. But it was a bad bank and SDH. You can imagine what would happen if, at that time, Prime Minister Janša and Virant, who presided over the National Assembly, agreed and said there would be no referendums. There would have been 60,000 of them out there, including many of you from the SMC, who went there. I want to respond to one more thing. Many of you have said that Janša's Constitutional Court has corrected the injustice. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You've done something unconstitutional, however you interpret it. What if we were to adopt a single-vote marriage at the time. Would that be constitutional? Why don't you let me do something stupid then? Why don't we agree that Mr. Speaker takes his place, which you've forced us into, and you've even turned the law into?Oh, my God! You forced us into this, you know that. He wouldn't be here today. And don't talk then – wait, wait, wait. In 2008, you giggled when the procedures in the Patrio case began. In 2011, you said – convicted, done, convicted, convicted, I don't know what. In 2012, you said - you must not go to court. In 2014, you took his mandate in an illegal and unconstitutional manner, but do not tell me, the President and everyone else, that "the law was not in conformity with the Constitution". No, it's for selling fog, president, not fog selling. You took away his mandate in an unconstitutional way. Got it, did it, did it, did it. Let's move on. In the time I have left, and there is very little left, I can only respond to a few things. Mr. Zorčič, I really wouldn't want you to be a lawyer, ever, because then I'd be convicted right away. I hope I never get a chance to ask you for anything like that, and I wouldn't. You're telling me that I was a militiaman and I defended the totalitarian regime. But your deputy wasn't?Oh, my God! If you tell me that, Mrs. Kozlovich can. Like now, to me, not to her. But you know something, you used to work in the sandstone when I was doing it. But you must know that informed police officers, once militiamen, as did Mrs Kozlovich, as well as I, have dealt with traffic, public order and peace and crime. The other is the political police, the Ubba or the SDV, whatever you call it. Read a book and you'll be richer in knowledge. Let's move on. I think Mr. Möderndorfer was talking to me about the loss of signatures. Ladies and gentlemen, four institutes have been looking into this. None of the four institutions accused me of being the Home Secretary for this, none! Although this was what Jani Möderndorfer wanted, who was then sitting there in your position with many soldiers like you now have; but there was no way, no matter. But there is something else that one of the former National Assembly experts has told me that I have no evidence that the signatures were taken out before they went to MNZ, here in the National Assembly, in a copy shop; by the responsible persons, not by any ordinary workers in the copy shop. I'm sorry I'm running out of time to answer to the president of the National Assembly. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, will be given the floor and then the proposer. Here you go, Dr. Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to stop at seven points. The first item is an interpretation of what was going on at this meeting or who was to play the role of the victim. It was insinuated that I should have tried to play it myself, and then you tried to prove yourself to be the victim. I think that the whole point of the political debate is not to get to who is the victim, although I can imagine that this is a very desirable position, because people are sympathetic to it. What is important is that this diversion of attention to the attack on you as a key part of my defence, from what are the arguments behind how I acted, in fact, an attempt to divert attention from being wrongly requested to collect signatures for the referendum, this is the first thing. Secondly, it is important that, in my belief in this case, I have made the right decision; but you will not judge it; the Constitutional Court will judge it at the end of the day. What I can tell you, however, is that it is an abuse, that you try to use this session or abuse it, whatever we call it, for an attack on one side of the function itself, probably on the other hand, and on the other hand, something that has happened in your opinion should not happen in any way, because then this abuse will still be possible. But like I said, this will be decided by the Constitutional Court. What I do know, however, is simply the fact that this meeting can be understood as an attempt at political pressure and influence on the Constitutional Court, absolutely. But luckily it will have the last word and as always I will respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. That's what I can say and what everyone has to do, not just anyone in this country. The Constitutional Court must also respect the decision of the European Court of Human Rights because it is a political will in this country to do so. However, it is not directly useful or anything like that, it is not in the same respect as the Court of Justice of the European Union in both instances. That's one of the things I'd like to point out. The other thing is, this time I'm going to read the 20's decision exactly. 4. 2004 and repeated below 17. 6. This part of the sentence was repeated. What's important is that the court said how it felt about the abuse of the referendum, and it was taking all the sequences out of it. In paragraph 17, he said: "The National Assembly also substantiates the non-constitutionality of the referendum issue by stating that the issue is an abuse of the Institute of Referendum with a view to delaying the legislative procedure aimed at enforcing the Constitutional Court decision because the initiators should submit the initiative with a referendum question for the same reasons as the previous one." Reinvestment, repeatability, repetition. "The Constitutional Court" is now important here, "does not rule out the possibility that such a preliminary and subsequent legislative referendum" – at the time we knew the matter, but from this point of view is important – "used also for non-constitutional purposes, for example", I stress the word "by introducing new and new initiatives with a view to delaying the legislative procedure for the adoption of a certain law which the initiators oppose." It's an abuse, too. Not contrary to the purpose of the law, even the same, simply because of the fact that there was a decision in the back of the Constitutional Court to implement the law. Then it goes on. "If the President of the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly has identified such aims of the initiator, he should already, within the scope of the options offered by the ZRLI, for example, within the framework of the requirements that the issue must be clearly expressed, that the request must be justified and that the rules for the setting up of certain questions under Article 18 of the ZRLI" – yes, absolutely in some respects, but not in any way in that he can intervene – "prevent the call for a referendum." This is what the Constitutional Court imposes as a guideline in this case, an interpretation. Their interpretation is binding on me, not yours. And we have to follow it until I have nothing better than basic. In this case, the word "for example" is very important. As recently explained by the then President, the ninth Constitutional Advocate, i.e. the Constitutional Judge, then the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr Wedam Lukić, is able to conclude from this that the possibility that the President of the National Assembly, even in the case of other abuses, will decide not to set a deadline for collecting signatures has not been ruled out by the Constitutional Court. There is this possibility and, of course, this matter will have to be judged. What is ironic is that you have made the basis for this either the current or previous Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which you have received back from the Constitutional Court if I use your terms, even some kind of slap in this case. As usual, no one was responsible for this slap, nothing happened. That's three things I wanted to say. The tie itself, there's really no problem here, not with the colors or anything else. However, it is the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. There's no reason a man wouldn't do that. However, I would like to ask my colleague Mahnič, who is not here now, to study as soon as possible. First of all, his studies won't get old, that's one thing that matters. Secondly, more importantly, he will understand that the fact that I am defending the right to insult me and that he insults the rest of the National Assembly, of course with all responsibility, also means defending democratic debate and the basis of what is happening in this House. This approach I've had so far, I don't think she knows anything, at least on my part, an exception. I know that sometimes you suffer because abuse is repeated and repeated because you simply do not take away another word. But the possibility of a word in this House, at least as far as I am concerned, has always been. And because of this, minimally because this notion of democracy is completely different from what he learned from the I don't know which textbook, I could stress it. It'll be correct as far as my fellow mags are concerned. Spreads, add something to this matter of yours that has complemented; but gradually we will most likely come to the whole truth. And that is that your government has actually shifted the burden of deciding to the following, because the tax debt has remained and had to be resolved somehow afterwards. That solution, however, did not stand up to constitutional judgment, but the problem was simply a hindrance. Everyone can complement, but in the end we come up with a whole story from different angles. Politics is never believed in the word directly, but from different angles of view it is; direct lie is an unacceptable matter. What I'd like to say is one question I have for Mr Grimes, which is definitely my turn. However I look at the matter, it seems strange to me that the Slovenian Democratic Party is so sympathetic to cross-border migrant workers at work in Austria. I wonder if, in the same way and so consistently, their support for the abuse of their rights would also be enjoyed if, in this way, referendum rights were abused by, for example, Roma, Muslims, same-sex Muslims?Oh, my God! This is about anyone, actually. That's what I'm interested in as one of those questions that I have. And maybe one last explanation when I was talking about blushing. When I was talking about blushing, I was not talking about your blushing, I was talking about reddishing your fellow Members from the European People's Party in the Council of Europe for violating the secrecy of procedures that are absolutely sacred to them. You know what I'm talking about, I'm not gonna turn this around anymore, but something like this is so unacceptable, it's so incomprehensible that we can call an extraordinary session, and we'll tell you what I'm talking about quickly, without a big problem. What it is, it doesn't matter. At least some respect for procedures is also an integral part of Parliamentarianism. And those procedures that the Slovenian Democratic Party colleagues tried to open in this National Assembly for the purpose of mutilating individual candidates for Slovenian judges of the European Court of Human Rights, that is something that is unthinkable in European terms, something that the European People's Party does not tolerate. I wanted to point this out just as an example of how far we could go. We'll call a meeting and you'll see. I'm done with this and thank you for all your support. I can't say anything but that the National Assembly is a city of political debate. Everything I have said today represents such a political debate. I don't talk often, it's a fact, because of my function. For this reason, I thank you for this opportunity, although it has been expressed as an attack on my function. But then when I do, I have a specific purpose why I'm doing this. And then, in the capacity of a Member, not as President of the National Assembly, because up there, at the President's table, except that I lead, I do not do other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. First of all, as far as the answer is concerned. It is a little strange that the one who is being dealt with asks questions to others; but I always love to serve. Like the attitude towards the Roma, because you specifically highlighted it. I personally wrote in the law on RTV "special broadcasts for the Roma" because it is the importance of including them in society in an equitable, productive way. On the other hand, I have always opposed giving someone a special position when it comes to the issue of elections and similar matters. Why? Because this destroys the One Man principle — one voice that is the foundation of democracy and has always been. If you look at the stories behind you, you'll see that it's always about being supported, which is positive, and that it's alerted to what's wrong. In this case, for example, the problem was that you used quite a few untruths on your part. When you explained why you weren't here this morning to see what would happen. But I was informed by my colleagues that you wrote in an apology to the committee that you would not be, because, I quote, "you are preparing for a meeting of the National Assembly." And nothing else. It is said that everything else was now, let's say, a political interpretation. Whether it's nice or not, I'll leave it to others. You have seen that the law that has caused problems to Slovenian daily migrants at work in Austria and other countries, that there will be no agreement on terms, is the fault of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's not even true. This was the law passed by the government of Rob, but it did not take full effect until the time of the government of Janša. Later, this was compensated by a solution to change the basis for their tax burden. The Constitutional Court, as some later correctly established, annulled this several years later. Now the problem is still a problem, so don't say we didn't warn you about it. I've done it myself more than once. It would be easier to be simply sustainable with appropriate bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries, where they would opt for one or the other taxation; not double, of course, which is unpleasant and generates a variety of protests. On the other hand, if you have all forgotten this, it has also been a subject of interest to the warnings and even to the public expression of the already initiated European Commission procedure against the country of Slovenia. If you've forgotten that, I'm warning you. This matter is important and relevant and Slovenia will not be able to avoid it, so it is also worth the attention of all. As for the solution that I have pointed out and is, in my opinion, the simplest and legally most correct – this is a bilateral agreement – the legal order in Slovenia is such that it cannot be put directly by the National Assembly, which is one of the Members or a parliamentary group; but it is a matter of negotiations that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must negotiate. I suggest that further activities take you over there and we can agree on the matter in the best possible way. So much for the very backdrop of this story. Now let's get to the point. There's always a problem in small print. What is the point of the story with today's session? Everything that needs to be regulated in relation to the referendum is already properly regulated, except for the part that touches on constitutional change, where there are temporary solutions in the Constitutional Law; the matter is fully operational and functioning normally. If we both read as a whole about this matter, which is now the subject of the session, there should be no slightest doubt or complication. Seven days is the time limit for a formality in which, following an initiative to collect signatures for a formal request to be accompanied by at least 40,000 certified signatures, the President of the National Assembly, together with the competent services, has the time to determine, in accordance with the law, whether the legal conditions for the invitation to tender are met. At this time, he has two options. The first is that no later than 7 p.m. until 24 p.m., the deadline shall be set for the collection of signatures. Another option would be to assess them that there is a serious error in calling for an amendment or an appropriate amendment, if possible under the applicable legislation, on the basis of legitimate powers. And the second option is to convene the National Assembly and propose to it a decision not to sign a referendum if it is a substantive problem, which would be of such a nature, that the postponement of the law or its non-admission may constitute a serious legal complication, a violation of human rights or other similar problem. In a given case, it did not do either. That man, that is, the president of the National Assembly, who should have called the National Assembly if he had estimated that there was, as it were, a material abuse, he did not do so; but he took the right, after the expiry of the deadline, not to sign the notice. This is a double violation of existing rules. And the reference to the Constitutional Court and the judicature you presented is flawed or wrong. The one who suggested this to you read this thing flawedly. If you go back to reading the text you read yourself, what does it mean?Oh, my God! Within the limits of your powers you have; and then they are also worked out if you have read the text in detail. What are your powers? To see whether a sufficient number of signatures are attached or whether the question is correctly raised is whether it is formally filed and reasoned; in short, these formal terms are the powers you have under law. And within these powers and only within these powers, if you carefully read the decision of the Constitutional Court, you have the right to reject the matter; but not to allow the deadline to expire, even to determine that the formal conditions are met and not to sign the deadline, nor to leave the substantive decision to the National Assembly. For only the National Assembly as an institution has, by law, – and also by the Constitutional Law, which monitored the amendment of the Constitution in the field of referendum – this follows very clearly – to decide that the invitation to referendum would have unconstitutional consequences, obviously unconstitutional consequences; and the final decision in the case of complaints made by those concerned, either by the initiators or by the applicants of the request, if any, to the Constitutional Court. All matters are thus perfectly legal, the path is clear, and adequate and effective legal protection is also provided. For the law then goes to the Constitutional Court, that it must decide such a matter as a matter of priority. It sets an unbinding deadline for the Constitutional Court, but this deadline is of an instructive nature and travels it to decide within thirty days. Then, depending on the decision of the Constitutional Court, the law shall be sent for publication or further proceedings shall be carried out. Things are completely settled. There's no legal void. The legal void was created only seemingly because of the shortcut that was now taken. This shortcut is problematic in many respects and clearly violates certain constitutional principles. It may be possible for someone to make a questionable statement, to conclude from the sequence of events that it is possible to exploit a procedure. You can call it legal abuse, it can also be interpreted this way. But if you use the term abuse in relation to the referendum, it's on a lot of torn legs, especially in relation to this part of the procedure. I warn you this, and once again, if you want to avoid anyone ever taking advantage of this procedure in any way, you would say - abuse, then the whole referendum regime will have to be set up differently. That's what I've been warning you for ten years, and I'm always saying the same thing, you can check it back. And I've always said that on my client, on the Constitutional Commission and everywhere. Then we should go in the direction of the Swiss model referendum in order to completely separate the legislative process in Parliament from the referendum. And they both work unimpededly, they fully respect democratic principles, there can be no problems, no complications or harm to the country. If we accepted this model, we'd have an even better level of democracy than we have right now. And let's do this if you want to avoid such situations. However, as long as the arrangements are in place, the procedure must be followed. What did Churchill say? The process is the mother of democracy, the procedure is the mother of democracy. One can't miss a deadline, and then take the right and say it — that's abuse, and I won't call it. Because then one very bad question arises where the limit is. What is the meaning of such a principle that has been brought to an extreme? That any government for citizens can do the most shameless, harmful, or what they would reject with all four of them, bring the law over if it does a simple trick. Deal with a group, send it out, collect the signatures, and then say later, when the hands run out and others can't collect the signatures – yes, because we were joking, we wanted it for a totally different purpose. It is found to be an abuse, and the matter is over. The referendum is gone, the referendum is ruined, the law is published, and the power is cut. Such an option should be excluded in advance. And as a result, such an intervention as it was done in this case is unacceptable. I am sure of this, and no one will ever convince me otherwise. Why? Because it's not just about those who went as unionists to collect signatures, it's far from that. It's about everyone and everyone who signed the papers. And I'm pretty sure that a lot of them, probably most of them, have signed up in good faith, that's all. Then it is no longer the property of a union, but it is a group of voters and voters. There's another status under the law, and that's not all. This matter was then also directly and directly to all those who went to collect the signatures themselves, but they saw that someone was already collecting them; perhaps they had also given him their signature in good faith. And when the signatures were filed, they said - great, we don't have to collect signatures, we'll participate in the referendum. And all of these were played and cheated by this game. And all of this was actually taken away from the possibility of going to collecting certified signatures and then exercising their right to a referendum. And all of this was done only because the procedure was not fully clearly defined. This is not just about these groups or one union. It concerns all signatories in the first place, but it also concerns all those who did. This is confidence in the law, the rule of law and the rule of law. Someone else did not therefore go to collect signatures because he believed that the signatures were already being gathered, that the referendum would be held there, that he would be able to cooperate, that he would place a certified signature there, that he would be able to vote there, that perhaps even he would take the initiative later in the procedure. No way. Because of a statement and a sequence of events, this has been declared an abuse; and goodbye. You just can't play with constitutional rights like that. Options should be provided for in advance and a regulation should also be laid down. The rules are just fine, you just have to stick to them. That's the problem we're talking about today. What was taken from it? The right to an effective remedy or to an effective judicial remedy was first and foremost seized by the initiators themselves. Once again, it's not just one unionist, even if he speaks later on some of his interpretations. He can only say that in his own name. He can't say that anyone who signed that is the same opinion. How does he know that?Oh, my God! And how can those who then interpret these words, specifically the President of the National Assembly, hope to say that this applies from the first to the last for all those who have signed it? And even if I did, there's a problem of trust in the law, in the legal order. Indirectly this has been the case and it is the confidence of all those who believe that the law is before the referendum and hope that they will be able to exercise their rights in this way; and therefore do not take the appropriate initiative themselves. They are not going to collect signatures, as signatures have already been filed, but why would five sets of signatures be needed? All of these are played in this way, this is a problem of trust in the rule of law and the rule of law, there are always two aspects. As a result, these rules must be duly respected. And, of course, it's the right to judicial protection. What should the Constitutional Court do? Even if he thinks that they have the right motive for obviously violating the procedure, he will be in an impossible position. What to eliminate all laws in return; God knows when this decision will be taken. Now it is not in the law that it must deal with this in thirty days, in the shortest possible procedure; but it can be decided in accordance with its procedure, calmly whenever it wishes. And then it will be clear that the laws already in force, the laws will be in force, an integral part of the legal order, will have legal consequences, the laws themselves. And what the Constitutional Court should say – we're putting it all back together. In theory, we could do this, but in practice this is very unlikely, virtually unbelievable. And what would that mean? This would mean once again a new intervention into the legal order, disproportionately large, and the play of all those who would trust in the law into the applicable laws and in some way exercise their rights or obligations on the basis of established laws. That is why such a procedure is in the Referendum and Human Initiative Act; it should only be followed in order not to do so, such a situation should not have happened if these principles were respected. Why did this happen? They say it's for good purposes all the time. The law is not based on good intentions; the law is based on respect for the procedure; the time limits must be respected. It is important to respect the individual act of the one who has this right under the law. What does it mean to respect the principle of legality that was apparently violated in a given case? This is explicitly stated in Article 153 of the Constitution, the last paragraph, you can verify that any act, either an individual act or an act of an institution or someone acting with public authority – is said to concern this obviously the National Assembly and also the President of the National Assembly – when it comes to the exercise of rights, must be based on the law or the law. Every action! It is logical, therefore, that when the Constitutional Court determined that it could act, for example, in the event of an apparent abuse of the right to referendum, the President of the National Assembly also wrote "in the framework of the rights conferred on him by law". And also, once again, I stress, this is a matter of whether it is clear whether it is set correctly or whether the signatures are accompanied by an appropriate number, or whether all the other formal conditions are met. These are the powers of the President of Parliament who has them by law. In this context, all his conduct is lawful if it is based on this law or legal provision. From there, however, the law explicitly states - but the National Assembly, as an institution, as a whole, may decide that the failure to enforce a law or to postpone its application and thus continue to constitute a constitutional problem; and it may decide not to sign it. And then the Constitutional Law says - in a dispute between the National Assembly, not the President of the National Assembly, and between the proponents or initiators the Constitutional Court. This is clearly written; acts that we have adopted here together. This has not been respected and these rights have been violated. No one can deny it, someone can legally excuse it. I'm saying it'll be very interesting to read where the Constitutional Court will stand. But the fact is, what has happened should never have happened in the legal order, with full respect for the rules of the game. The President of the National Assembly is personally the President of the National Assembly, who is responsible for a given case of non-compliance, obviously disregarding the rules of the game, that he allowed the deadline to expire first, that he then took up the right of the Assembly as a whole to judge matters that he did not give to him by law. There is no legal basis in any legal act, you know that very well. For the last time, I call on you to list for me the acts that would give me the basis, the law or the law, for the actions carried out by the President of the National Assembly. Thus, it was an obvious arbitrary intervention, the adoption of rights, and therefore it was also obvious indications of actions that constituted abuse of function and reckless work at work. The seven-day deadline was when the President of the National Assembly could easily convene a National Assembly that would decide one way or another. At his conclusion, he could have done his work. None of these problems that we're talking about today would be. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask you whether there is any other desire for a debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Parliamentary practice applies if there is less than a minute per debater, then there is no sharing of time. This concludes the debate and brings us to a vote. In accordance with Article 201, in conjunction with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President’s discharge shall be decided by secret vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The groups of Members have forwarded proposals to the members of the panel leading the vote. These are: Dr Mitja Horvat – Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, mag. Bojana Muršič – Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec – Group of Members of the United Left, Mrs. Iva Dimic – New Slovenia's Group of Members – Christian Democrats. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the composition of the commission? If not, I ask for a vote. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the votes shall be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not visible. In accordance with Article 84 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 201(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President shall be dismissed if more than half or 46 Members vote in favour of the discharge. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. The Members and Members of Parliament who will assist me in the vote, please report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5.05 p.m. and will last until 17.20 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will continue at 5.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u123	Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the discharge of the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez. The vote was held at the National Assembly on 17 May 2016. 83 votes were divided, 83 votes were cast, 10 votes were invalid, 73 votes were valid; 22 votes were cast, 51 votes against. As the majority of all Members did not vote in favour of resolution, Dr Milan Brglez was not relieved of his office as President of the National Assembly on the basis of the outcome of the vote. / applause/ I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u124	Respectable. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cobillary Lips, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 46 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Mark Ferluga. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Dearly beloved. Kobilirna Lipica is a unique property with a herd of horses of the Lipica breed, as we know it, and the only Slovenian breeds of horses that have been grown in Lipica since 1580. And even in the world it is the only Slovenian recognized breed. And her stem cobillary is, of course, the Kobile Lipica. This is unique, as we know, a cultural monument not only for the Slovenes, but also for Europe and the world. In her long career, Lipica experienced ups and downs, as well as difficult times, which unfortunately are not over. Today we still have to face the consequences of inefficient governance and management. It is unacceptable for us candidates, Members of the Modern Centre Party and Desus, that the problem of Lipice has been unsuccessfully solved for almost a decade, since the first laws of 2006. There was also a further change in 2014, but these changes did not bring the new vision of Lipica as the identity of the symbol of Slovenia and horses on the one hand, and Lipice as a tourist destination on the other. This law represents only a minimal possible compromise between the professional, interested and political public. Why is the new law, and why are Members and Members of Parliament making the novel? We have decided to cut down the Gordija knot created by the separation between the public office of Kobilna Lipica and Lipica Turiz because they are both state-owned and there is virtually no cooperation between them. This reduces the reputation of the country, tourism and the economy. Today, Lipica is not only divided into two separate legal entities, but it is shared literally by physical barriers, which is unacceptable for us and also for the visitors of Lipice. With the proposed amendments, we would like to allow for the possibility of a single, comprehensive management and management of the co-balancing area, allowing market activities, including within the framework of the public office of Kobilirna Lipica. At the same time, we want to transfer real competence from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The activities required to carry out a comprehensive reorganisation of management models will be under the responsibility of the Ministry. In addition, – and let us not forget – from this ministry came the country's only biggest investment in Lipico since its independence. As such, the bill is without prejudice to the field of horse and horse activity, which must be stressed and to the protection of natural and cultural heritage. This parliamentary novelty of the law does not represent a new management model for Kobilarna Lipica, but offers the opportunity to prepare the necessary changes in the direction of an effective management model in an integrated area based on the preservation of horses, cultural and natural landscapes as the central element of Lipica. Until then, in particular, we want to ensure a uniform way of marketing and managing Lipice. We have received many concerns from the applicants so far that the proposal for a law relates mainly to market tourism activities; that cultural heritage, horsemen and cavalry will be in the function of foreign tourism products. In order to remove all doubts about the fact that the mother body has adopted a supplement with which it is clearly determined that market activity can only be developed in a way: to fully maintain the value of Kobilar Lipica as a historically important and original cobalan horse of the Lipica breed and the cultural function of protecting an area with cultivated karst landscape; to establish itself as a top horse and horse center; to link the natural heritage and cultural values of Kobilar Lipica with modern life and to become a generator for the development of tourism in Kras and beyond. On behalf of the proponents, I would also like to stress that the amendment of the law has been supported by the State Council, supported by the Civil Initiative for Lipica, four karst municipalities – the name Sežana, Komen, Hrpelje-Kozina and Divaca, the Trade Union of Visiting Workers and also the local population, SDH and the normal government. The Krashevs are also advocating a single Lipi space, which they no doubt confessed to yesterday's press conference, because they believe that this space and property are indivisible and that the latter must care for a single leadership that will be good at managing and engaging in some synergy with the local communities of this area. On the basis of the above arguments, we propose that the amendment of the Law be supported by Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party and by Desus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u126	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Andreja Potočnik, President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u127	Mr President, distinguished colleagues from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 15th session. 5. 2016 as a parent working body considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kobilna Lipica. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal order and the technical and legislative aspects. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the draft law. The Committee was also provided with the following material: the opinion and amendment of the Government, the position of the Civil Initiative for Lipica, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, the draft amendments of the Public Institute of Kobilar Lipica. The amendments to the bill were tabled by: Government to Article 1; Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre; and Desus to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5 and 7. At the meeting, members and members of the Committee were also invited to submit proposals for amendments to the Committee of the Members of the Parties of the Modern Centre and Desus Group to Articles 1 and 4 adopted by the Committee. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the proponents, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Culture, the Slovenian State Holding, the Public Institute of Kobilarna Lipica, the company Lipica Turizem d.o.o., the Municipality of Sežana, the Civil Initiative for Lipica, the Association of Hostings and Tourism of Slovenia, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out in the supplementary explanation that the key comments of the services in the written opinion, despite the amendments tabled, remained. In doing so, she drew attention in particular to the lack of alignment of the bill with other laws, to the lack of consistency within the law, to certain uncertainties in the proposed solutions or indeterminate definitions, and to the inadequacy or inadequacy of the transitional regime. The representative of the Council of State further stressed that the Commission of the Council of State for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supports the proposal of the law. The representative of the Civil Initiative for Lipica and the Mayor of the Municipality of Sežana expressed support for the proposal. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Slovenian Food and Tourism Union, who stressed the need to amend legislation as soon as possible, which will allow for the uniform management and management of Kobilarna Lipica. Members and members of the Committee did not discuss the individual articles of the bill. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 5 and 7 of the Modern Centre and Desus Group of Members and, as previously mentioned, Articles 1 and 4. The Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology Aleš Cantarutti, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u129	Honourable Presidents; honourable Members, allow a few more words on behalf of the Ministry or the Government. Kobilirna Lipica is one of the most famous tourist destinations in Slovenia, there is no doubt about it. About 70,000 visitors visit her annually, and the vast majority come from abroad. Given that Lipico visited more than 280 thousand visitors in 1985, it is clear that Lipice’s development potential is extremely large; but not exploited. The reasons for this are certainly multifaceted. We believe that the proposal for a law is a good basis for us to make a difference in this area. Change is necessary. I am convinced that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Kobilana Lipica will have a positive impact on the resolution of the currently most pressing problems in Lipica. Let me remind you that today in Lipica there are two legal entities, both owned by the Republic of Slovenia – the Public Institute of Kobilna Lipica and Lipica Turizm d.o.o.; each on its side without communication, without the necessary cooperation, as if they were not aware that the activities they carry out are not only interconnected but inseparably intertwined. Nevertheless, business partners, visitors and the general public view Lipico as unique. These legal persons operate completely separately and, especially unacceptable, the marketing of everything Lipica can offer to guests takes place separately. An essential amendment to the bill before you is the possibility of carrying out a market activity to the public office of Kobilarna Lipica. The latter is disabled in the current framework, as Lipica Turizem d.o.o. is therefore a competent economic company, which has been insolvent for a long time. The change in leadership in autumn 2015 has improved business, but not sufficiently. We believe that by allowing Kobilier Lipica to carry out a market activity, the risk of a possible hindrance to the tourism activity already being carried out in Lipica has been substantially reduced for more than 50 years. We therefore do not detect new tourism activities. Because there are resources and because we have a relatively limited number of resources in Slovenia; we need to make use of the resources that we have at our disposal, blue, smart, in combination with nature and also sound enough. At the same time, the proposed amendment provides for a transparent way of managing the business results of individual activities. We probably all agree that the latter, given past experience, is essential. The proposal provides for clearly defined delimitations of activities and possibilities for the use of revenue surpluses over expenditure. This reduces the risk of possible spillage of funds between the public service and market activity, as the current debate has often mentioned fear. I assure you these fears are unjustifiable. The amendment also provides for a change of actual competence from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We welcome this because, as already mentioned, the activities required for the implementation of the overall restructuring of Lipice will mainly be within the competence of the IGRT. The fact that Lipica is a very important destination for the government is also evident from the fact that in 2014 and 2015 the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology provided €5.6 million of European funds for investment in the Lipica Public Institute. This was an important investment that restored all the most important objects of cultural heritage and landscape, namely public infrastructure. This is also the basis for the development of new products and an incentive for the development of all activities in the co-balancing area and for a more successful and cost-effective business. Once again, let me stress that future development and business depend mainly on the single market of the whole area, and we therefore support the proposed changes. Maybe a word or two more about controllers. We believe that some of the problems in Kobilana Lipica are currently due to too many operators. The proposal to amend the law will reduce the number of operators within the legal framework. Currently, these are: Kobilirna Lipica, Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, SDH and Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which the Ministry of Economy is expected to replace after the transfer. The proposal to amend the law goes in the direction of gradually withdrawing the Ministry from the role of manager. In doing so, I would like to point out that it would be most reasonable and rational for the Lipice area, as it has been in the past, to have only one but only one but an effective controller. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the efforts of the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party and Desus and the proposal for a law. The current situation in Lipica is unacceptable. The current management of Lipice is, as we say, inappropriate. This is felt by guests, and this also affects business results. The event in Lipica – and this has also been mentioned – is not proud of the owner, diminishes the reputation of the said destination and causes irreparable damage. The problems in the Kobilarna Lipica area have been taking too long, so it is high time to get rid of them as soon as possible. In our sincere opinion, the first step towards this is to propose amendments to the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u130	Excuse me. I need to warn you about time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u131	I'm sorry if I've been too long.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u132	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, in its name Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you, beautiful vice president. Once again, good day to all! Lipica, which has been one of the most famous tourist destinations in Slovenia and beyond our borders for many years, has become a symbol of the country's inefficiency and inefficiency as owner of this unique cultural monument and priceless natural heritage. The different views of individual managers on governance and individual partial interests have led to a situation that has called for changes. The consistent separation between the basic activity related to the Lipicans and tourism activity in recent years has led to the setting of fences and locks within the complex, poor business results and increasingly poor tourist visibility of the cobile and Lipica as a whole. The situation has become unsustainable. The legal basis used to interrupt the passing of the ball between the spheres and between the individual legal persons was essential — a colloidal and tourist work. With the new law, we are transferring responsibility for Lipica to one government pillar, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which remains the primary activity that will be given special attention in the future. However, the management and management of the entire complex becomes unified with the new law. It is the synergy of horseradish and tourism that will enable Lipica to develop new opportunities and opportunities. Since the beginning of the monitoring of the Kobilar Lipica problem, which has become increasingly complicated, we have insisted in the Desus Group that the country, as the sole owner, must assume responsibility for poor management and find a solution that will break the vicious circle. Today we are pleased that we have reached an agreement and that the current proposal also supports the local community. The new Kobilana Lipica Act enables the complete design of the tourist product of the Lipica estate, which will be based on the heritage and tradition of cobile and horse lipicans; in conjunction with the modern tourist, guest and recreational possibilities of the property. In addition, it is important that the law does not interfere in any way with the field of breeding of horses of the Lipicas. The supervision and direction of the primary activity remains as it has so far been in the domain of the professional council, the breeding committee responsible for the herd and the professional manager. In the future, however, we believe that more attention will have to be paid to the profession itself, which will be primarily the task of leadership. The latter will also have to ensure business transparency and provide the necessary resources for the development of primary activities. In the Desus Group, we believe that the proposed solutions and support for the law are a new opportunity for horsemen and the development of the tourist complex as a whole. That is exactly why we have decided to become co-signers of today's novelty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u134	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, on behalf of Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The key point of each debate on Lipica, its perspectives and difficulties is, of course, Lipicane. The horse, which is a natural and cultural heritage at the same time, makes it possible to develop a tourism perspective, a private initiative and the possibility of developing local communities and related private initiatives. As we discuss how and how to resolve and resolve the relationship that has had a negative impact on today’s situation in Kobilana Lipica and surrounding tourism, we must nevertheless ask ourselves a significant question: What was earlier — an egg or a chicken? In this case, we place this in the box: What is the public interest — a horse or a hotel? And what is the first thing we need to protect — cultural and natural interest or private initiative — in a public institution? If we understand and ensure that the public interest survives, develops and is not threatened, then we will also set up a framework for the development of tourism, for the development of a private initiative and for service activities in the public institution's clothing. If we think the other way around is to take care of tourism in a public institution's clothing, only then for cultural and natural heritage, then we have made a mistake. The Lipicaan is in Lipica, which is unusually dangerous. A serious mistake can be made if we misinterpret why and what perspective we have for the Lipican — cultural and natural interests. At the same time, it must be understood that without an adequate support environment for the development of tourism, private initiatives and arrangements of the situation that led Lipico to the point that we have thus lost years to solve the problem; and that we are only discussing, hopefully, the last solution today, the issue of the Gordy knot needs to be cut. Social Democrats agree that it is time to conclude the debate and decide on one of the solutions. The solution on the table is not as close to us as we put natural and cultural heritage first. However, in the light of the fact that the decision and the solution must be taken, we will not oppose the law. But we hope that, over the years when we evaluate the decision and the solution that is placed on the table, we will not be like Djordje Balašević in one of our songs – I am sorry about the horse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u136	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Joint Left Group, on her behalf Mrs Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Allow me a little bit of poetry, Edward Kocbek: The officer reports: the Lipicans participated in a historical film. Radio explains: The millionaire bought lipicances, the noble animals were restless all the time flying over the Atlantic. And the learning book teaches: Lipicans are grateful horsemen. They are home from Crassus, a flexible hoof, a giddy snout, bright wonders, and stubborn loyalty. I am sorry that I have only five minutes, or I would remind you again of the history of Lipica there since 1580, because most Members and Members of the ruling party at the 1st urgent meeting of the committees that we have convened have listened strangely, and later in a sovereign way rejected all our conclusions and thus demonstrated how much she cares about Lipica. With the second reference to the urgent meeting of the two committees, certain manoeuvres have already begun, and we all remember them well. At that time, it became clear to the media that this time a ruling party – a modern centre party in Lipico – would be able to seal its claws. To this day, political parties had their own capital and human resources interests, which is why Lipica is in the same condition as she is. If people with political interests had not danced after the floor, they would not be discussing Lipica for at least the third time today. In doing so, we must not forget that the Law on Kobilirana Lipica was adopted in 1996 for the purpose of joining Unesc's list in order to protect the Lipican; and not for the protection of the interests of the ruling political parties. First the SLS – Casino Portorož, then the LDS – the removal of the protection of the area, then the SDS – the golf course, and finally the SMC will be next. Let me stress that the United Left still wants the situation in Lipica to be finally settled, so yesterday I again asked the question to Minister Restoration in order to obtain additional information to confirm the novel. Not only did his arrogant attitude disturb us, but we were also disturbed by the fact that in his response, he was only putting the responsibility of the current district minister, the Jew, who was supposed to be insolvent, non-participative and unwilling to send the data in order to carry out an analysis of the operation. He also showed cobial and tourism to play pinkpox and to be caught under each other's feet just to make things worse. And all this is supposed to be settled by him when the Ministry of Economics becomes the Ministry of the Interior. Although the Ministry is responsible for tourism, it is not responsible for horse rearing and breeding – that is, the primary activity of Lipice. Therefore, there is so much greater fear that the tourist work will prevail, that the herd will be reduced and the horses will die out slowly; or the privatisation of Lipica will follow, that is to say, the privatisation of Slovenia's natural and cultural monument. The fact is, we haven't believed in this law in the United Left since the deposit. In recent days, though, we have received a number of negative opinions from the field about the law, which only further confirms our doubts. The fact is also that the cobile has almost already come out of the minus that she has gained because of Lipica Turism, and is on the way to finally start working with the green numbers in the future. And the third fact is that Kobilna Lipica is seeking entry into Unesc's representative list of intangible cultural heritage and that it may even be disabled because there are many different interests in the game. There are increasing indications that there are currently at least three fronts that show human, capital and personal benefits. The first, in the interest of the privatisation of Lipica, is in the background of the real estate interests of some prominent people and other so-called golfers; and the third, which comes directly from the ruling party of the modern centre with the interest of recruiting its people. Finally, let me point out that we are fighting for a worker in the United Left, because we have always drawn attention to the situation of employees in Lipica in the emergency meetings and on the questions sent; this time, despite the wishes of employees of this law, we do not have to support them. The employees hope that this law will solve their problems, but there are no such solutions in this law. On the contrary, when preparing this novel another season will be lost, and we fear that the adoption of this law will only make it worse in Lipica Turism and in Kobilana Lipica. That is why we will not support the novel, but we will probably discuss Lipica again at the end of the year if Lipica will be ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u138	The next is the New Slovenia Group of Members – the democratics of Krk, on her behalf Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u139	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, we are again dealing with the situation of one of the most recognizable, representative brands in Slovenia. You could say horses would laugh at us, but the truth is, it's a sad thing. In recent years, the Kobile Lipica has been pushed aside and into a flood even throughout the decade. Christian Democrats believe that the causes are different, and the underlying reason is poor government governance. In Slovenia we do not know how to manage our representative brands very well, but we have excellent brands. In addition, the Kobalina has had this misfortune that it has been managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and Minister Dejan Židan for years by the guardian, who has managed the circle of people around the Party of Social Democrats. The status of the public institution on the one hand and the economic company Lipica Turizem d.o.o. on the other hand is changing too often. Once their activity is separated and reunited; and so it continues indefinitely. However, the situation in the public office and in tourism is only worse after every change. The novelty we have before us is the result of political struggles within the coalition, specifically between the Social Democrats and the Modern Centre Party. This is why the latter has also invested, not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which would be a normal coalition path. The largest government party has apparently found that the Social Democrats, with their people and the same approach to cobalt management, will not succeed in any other way than finally sinking the Slovenian and world pearls. In our view, it is high time to change into a cobalt and, as we say, as Christian Democrats, it is time for a new agricultural policy. It is more than obvious that the current government of the areas it wants to launch is, as a rule, under the auspices of the ministers of the Social Democrats, moving under the auspices of Minister Počvalska. Apparently there's at least some hope of getting rid of what it can get rid of. The strategic management of cobial and tourism needs to change. Christian Democrats believe that the strategically primary priority should be Lipica Horses, i.e. Lipica Horses. All tourism and other economic activity must, in our view, act as a support activity for the primary sector. Let me touch here briefly not so far away Postojna Cave. When we visited her a while ago in the framework of our visits, we were pleasantly surprised at how things worked there. Part of tourism revenue, which is 35%, is invested in infrastructure. This can be an example of good practice for regulating tourism activities in Lipica as well. A certain percentage of tourism revenues must be returned to primary activity, i.e. horseback. Christian Democrats believe that Kobilna Lipica should remain one whole, not to be separated into a public, private, profitable part of the feast. However, it would certainly be good to consider placing the guest part in concessions if the public institution is not able to demonstrate in a short time that a profitable activity can be carried out successfully and in the good public, cultural part of Kobilarna Lipica. Of course, we remain open and concerned about who will lead and care for the breeding book. The question of cultural heritage – these issues remain open despite this law. It is our belief that Christian Democrats would be the key to how and what these things will be. With our inheritance, we are obliged to act more responsibly. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u140	The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. We have before us a new law on Lipica, which is essentially a symbol of the statehood of Slovenia. The point is that we must act very responsibly with this symbol. It is right to harmonise the interests of what will happen to Lipica in the future, because through Lipica we will be familiar in Europe and also in the world. We see, however, that it is not possible to harmonise even in the coalition, because the party of the Social Democrats will not oppose, but will not stand for the solution. Tourism, however we look at it, is the future of Slovenia. Local self-government can have major multiplier effects from such tourism and from the whole place. It is a matter of tourism that we must view Slovenia as a whole and connect it with other pearls that are not missing in the surroundings, from Postojna Cave, Škocjanski Caves, including Pirana and other surroundings. Why is Lipica so important? It is important because we will market Slovenia in the future. However, the proposed solution raises a number of questions. Despite the numerous sessions, we did not get any answers to the questions. If I expose just a few. With regard to Lipica, there is no clear perspective on what tourism will do, what we will develop in tourism, what will happen to horse breeding. Responsibility is not defined, nor is the SDH task defined, which has a number of intentions in the field of tourism and has also identified tourism among strategic investments. That's not what we've heard. In particular, funding costs and how tourism will be financed and what is the perspective of this tourism need to be highlighted. We note that once again it is not clear how we will solve the problem of financing one and the other, as the Court of Auditors has already pointed out in the previous regulation. It is said that the funds may be spilled again. Although the local communities supported the project mentioned above, they also did not receive all the answers to the questions. We don't know what the effect Lipica will have on the local community and what people will do with it. Lipica's protection is questionable. The procedure we have before UNESCO is questionable precisely because of these changes, because the procedures under way do not foresee such a solution as is proposed. It can also be a property circuit, which has been repeatedly pointed out, and a private interest. If we now have a problem with having a Public Institute on one side, on the other, Lipico Turism, and that these two are not cooperating, it can only be a problem in the workforce. If we have two people who are responsible for these two functions, we can cooperate and solve all the questions. We don't know what's going to happen to Lipica in the future and whether it's really a frame-up. Who will take over this project and what career, what qualifications does this person have? In order to be able to decide the fate of Lipica beforehand, at least these questions should be answered, if not to any other. And since we have no answers to these questions, we cannot make a transparent decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u142	I invite Mr Mark Ferrug to present the position of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team from the Ministry of Economy! The fact is that the problem of Lipice, one of the three largest pearls of Slovenia and the potentials of Slovenia, has been solved for decades. This is a problem that is insurmountable in the current legal order. We have two entities in Lipica that should act in synergy; unfortunately, they do not communicate or cooperate with each other. The key purpose of the last novel, so-called novel C, is to transfer, first of all, the competence to the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of the Economy; secondly, to enable the cobial to carry out market activities and to enable the uniformity of all activities within Lipica. Of course, with the aim of increasing the quality and efficiency of the operation, protecting the cultural and natural part of the property and especially the horses of the Lipicans. Following the adoption of the law or after the transfer of powers, relevant data will be obtained at the Ministry of the Economy to enable clear planning of the necessary changes, based on the preservation of horses as the central element of Lipica and in the service of ensuring stable tourism revenues and other activities due to the need for sustainability of the business model of the entire tourist destination. The fact is that Lipica is a tourist destination as a whole and one of the identities of the symbols of Slovenia. And that is how we have been promoting it in Slovenia for years. We don't take it from the Lipicans, but every year the Ministry of Agriculture has given EUR 2.8 million, which means that in the current law it is only about "buildings" or some synergy. Perception about Kobile Lipica is a unique property. The public does not separate between the Public Institute and Lipica Turism. But it is a single area, which is owned by one owner 100 percent; and it is a country. The activities are closely intertwined between each other, which means that marketing and management of the entire property must be carried out in a uniform manner. That is why we want this to be effective and also rational. Since its establishment, for more than 400 years, the Kobalina has been in various forms of public ownership and has always been a single, rounded whole, intertwining the activities of horsemen, horsemen, various forms of tourism. Therefore, it is inappropriate to build its development on any ownership of the property or the overthrow of the estate of Lipica. The market activity in the protected area of Kobilarna Lipica, as defined by the current ZKL-B, is narrowly defined as the activity of catering, hoteling, golfing, other recreation and souvenir sales. Such an extremely narrow, incomplete description of market tourism activities in the Kobilarna Lipica area is contrary to the nature, mission and meaning of tourism. The main purpose and mission is to place the horses of the Lipicans, the protected cultural heritage, and the natural environment at the centre as the primary component of the entire tourist production, that is, Lipice. The only integrated tourist product Lipice also allows communication, promotion. This is most important in the international environment and in tourism markets. This law also prevents the issuance of real estate for market activities for a long-term purpose to an external provider and thus fragmentation in the business and management of the area, as has been the case so far. The law is therefore only a first step, but this time in our view, on the way to the objectives set. A number of other activities are needed, from the adoption of plans for the management of the protected area, from the preparation of a strategy for the implementation and financial plan for the development of tourism, and from the market, economic activity of the protected area and from the provision of qualified management. Once again, under Article 12 of the current law, the property of the protected area cannot and must not be alienated or set aside. In the Modern Centre Party, we support the proposed legal changes because we believe that all activities will portray Lipica as one of Slovenia's main pearls and parade horses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u144	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u145	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear new vice president, congratulations on your election! We are considering a proposal to amend the Lipica Act. This, for the first time, entails transferring powers from the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. from one ministry to another. Allows under one roof catering and tourist activities in Kobilirna Lipica. As you know, I have repeatedly stressed the solutions that Lipica shines in old glory. These solutions are those proposed by the first Janša government at the time, i.e. the compulsory separation of the basic activities of Lipice. The main activity of Lipice is to protect the Lipican as a Lipican. Tourism, however, should remain an activity that will be put on the market, to win the best in the market and to offer the best tourist offer around the market of Lipica and Lipica at all. I agree with my previous colleague. We agree that breeding of the Lipica breed, leading the native, performing selection, testing your skills when preparing the annual plan is left to you with the aim of maintaining the line of the stallion, the generations of the mare, then schooling, carrying out tests, working skills of the horses, carrying out the school riding with the carriage, the school riding club, the training of young riders and so on – this must remain as a museum, like the stables, must remain in the Public Institute of Lipica. This must be our business. Tourism and marketing must not be a public institution. We're going back, dear fellows and colleagues, back in time. We're going back to some systems that didn't give the results that we should give. We're going back to something we know doesn't work. We're going back. Just because two entities are unable to communicate with each other, Your Honor, does not mean that you will systematically change the matter as it is now. In Postojna you have a good example of what it means when a tourist work comes under a private person who has knowledge that surrounds with the best people, as far as marketing is concerned, regarding the search for market niche. In which the lipicans could be even more marketed, all of this law essentially destroys them. I also looked at the people who Lipica Turismu d.o.o. These people don't know and can't market at the highest level of Lipica. We can't set up a serious four-star hotel in Lipica with these people. I've been to the Hotel Maestoso several times. I've also looked at the club's closed hotel for years. I looked at a semi-built golf course, and I looked at the non-marketing of the golf course and so on. The fact that they do not communicate – and I also agree with the current director of Lipice Turism here, 16 000 euros to the renters of the Maestos Hotel seems exaggerated – but that means not communicating with two managers. That is why we are now amending the law and putting Lipico Turism under public administration. What are we gonna do about it? According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, respected colleagues, you will be withdrawing funds for Lipico Tourism for people who have not yet been able to market, could not market, or could be marketed at a low level, to low budget tourists. But I think Lipica and her pride, her history in the world, has the advantage that few countries have. We've got lipicances, we've got Planica, we're under-marketing Bled. We still have the Maribor Pohorje, we have a whole range of activities we don't know how to market. I'm afraid I'm going to say again, I've been in the world, I've seen some destinations that have a worse history, worse legendary stories than Pied Piper has. This story, I was laughed at a half tournament in Rovinj a few days ago when I explained that Lipico was being thrown back into the public service; also marketing, tourist activities. They laughed, literally. The Lipicans were threatened three times, respected colleagues. For the first time in Napoleon's wars during the Illyrian provinces between 1809 and 1813. That's when they destroyed the original book of the Lipizzans. Habsburgers moved Lipicance to Hungary. The second time during World War II, when the 170th herd was relocated to the Czech area of Sudety. Only 11 Lipicas were thrown into Lipico after World War II. And for the third time, they're threatened by such legal solutions that you've submitted to the Modern Center Party. Someone who talks about liberalism. So the third time since 1580, the Lipicans have been threatened in the time of the government of Mira Cerar, with the abnormal solution of the party Desus and the party that is speaking today and declaring yourselves liberal. Dear colleagues, we have five times better solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group; therefore, we will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u146	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of call qualifications for the implementation of regulated calls, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u147	Dear Vice President, congratulations on your appointment first! Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions. Allow me to briefly present to you the reasons and content for the adoption of the law. The adoption of the bill is proposed in order to amend European legislation on the recognition of professional qualifications. The original directive, which entered into force in 2007, changed in 2013. This Directive is addressed to Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and Regulation (EC) No European Union. 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System; so-called IMI Regulation. The general objective of the adoption of Directive 2005 and, consequently, of the bill before you are: to reduce barriers to the free movement of persons and services in the internal market of the European Union, which means to facilitate the mobility of professionals and services in the European Union; to increase the employability of highly qualified individuals and to offer more opportunities for job seekers in regulated professions, which means a more flexible labour market. Directive 2005 fully and systematically regulates the area of recognition of professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions in the States Parties and provides persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one State Party with access to the same profession and the right to exercise that profession in another State Party with the same rights as nationals of that State Party. The bill partially transposes the provisions of the European Directive, in particular the procedural part, while the other sectoral legislation transposes the material part primarily with regard to certain regulated professions in the field of health, architecture and veterinaryity. The purpose of the new law is transparency, clarity, understanding and rationality. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the achievement of the following objectives. Firstly, simplifying procedures using a European professional card to better exploit the benefits of an already well-functioning internal market information system. Secondly, the transformation and simplification of the general rules for the establishment in another Member State or the temporary provision of services in another Member State. Thirdly, updates of the automatic recognition system, especially for doctors, dental doctors, nurses, graduates of midwives, masters of pharmaceuticals and architects. Fourthly, the creation of a legal framework for partially qualified experts. Fifthly, clarification of patient protection measures due to concerns about language skills. Six, developing user-friendly and content-oriented information on rules on the recognition of qualifications. And for the seventh time, the introduction of systematic review and mutual evaluation for all regulated professions in the Member States. In the second reading of the law, you will also consider proposals from four amendments, which are mainly of a technical nature. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be considered at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u148	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u149	President, thank you very much for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister! At its 22nd regular session, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons discussed the proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons has also previously addressed and supported the proposal of the law; only with the warning that European directives should have been transposed previously into national legislation. The work of the Committee was carried out by the Ministry responsible, the representatives of the Council of State and the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law in terms of its powers. The proposer initially said that the adoption of the law was proposed in order to amend European legislation on the recognition of professional qualifications. It was clarified that, given the scope of the changes, a new law has been drawn up in the field of recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions, since it ensures a comprehensive and systematic regulation of the field, in particular in terms of the recognition of professional qualifications for all regulated professions. The purpose of the bill is to increase transparency, greater clarity, understanding and also rationality. The general objective of the new law is in particular to remove obstacles to the free movement of persons and services in the internal market of the European Union. The removal of barriers will facilitate the mobility of professionals and services in the European Union, increase the employability of highly qualified employees and provide more opportunities for job seekers in regulated professions as well. In the short discussion following the introductory presentation, it was explained that the proposal for a law to transpose Directive 2005/36/EC into the internal legal order. This will remove obstacles to the free movement of persons and services in the internal market of the European Union, which means in particular facilitating the mobility of employees and services in the European Union. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted several amendments as a consequence of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and voted and adopted all the articles of the bill. On the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is also drafted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u150	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Group of Social Democrats will be represented by Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u151	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the exercise of regulated professions is essentially a technical law, which deals with the harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Union. New developments under the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the content of the Regulation on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System are transferred into national legislation. In view of the scope of the amendments, the Government has decided to submit a new law as a wish to make the new regulation as transparent, clear and understandable as possible. The bill mainly refers to the procedural part of the recognition of professional classifications; whereas the substantive legal basis is regulated in the individual sectoral legislation of certain regulated professions in the field of health, architecture and veterinary. The proposal for a law on the basis of a follow-up to the objective of facilitating the mobility of experts and services in the European Union covers a number of substantive sets which are divided into chapters in the law. These sets of amendments include: the introduction of a European professional card, the principle of partial access, common principles of training, the modernisation of the general system, the temporary and occasional provision of services, the updating of the automatic recognition system on the basis of minimum conditions of competence, access to information and electronic procedures, language requirements, alert mechanism, mandatory application of the IMI system and transparency and mutual evaluation. This is a new mechanism that will ensure greater transparency of around 800 regulated professions within the European Union on the basis of Member States' reporting to the European Commission. Chapters, in addition to all the innovations listed above, include general provisions, general rules for the performance of regulated professions in the Republic of Slovenia, the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the permanent performance of regulated professions, the provision of occasional or temporary services in the Republic of Slovenia in the performance of regulated professions, the European Professional Card, administrative cooperation and information, and transitional and final provisions. The basic purpose of the bill is therefore to transpose those requirements of the amended Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, which means to comply with the European Union's legal acts. The adoption of the law is essential, as we are already very late in implementing European legislation. Since the bill provides for a comprehensive and systematic regulation of the area from the procedural point of view of the recognition of professional qualifications for all regulated professions, we will support the draft law in the Social Democrats' Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u152	Following is the position of the Joint Left Group, on its behalf Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! One of my favorite architects says - God is in detail. The draft law openly states the expected effect of the law. The States Parties will simplify regulatory rules which may affect a more flexible labour market in the European Union. Let's ask ourselves, what does that mean?Oh, my God! Contrary to the romantic notion that this law solves the problems of workers seeking, in particular, work abroad, it is essentially a mechanism for reducing labour rights. Emigration of workers from Eastern Europe – and increasingly from Slovenia – to Great Britain, Germany, Austria and other countries in the centre is becoming a means of fighting organised workers. There are even more expensive methods than this law. For example: last week, the French Government took measures to ensure the flexibility of the labour market through a decree passed by Parliament. Many protests, in particular involving young people, students, even students, have been suppressed by tear gas. The import of foreign labour, which is willing to work under worse conditions than domestic workers, seeks to reduce trade union organisation and labour solidarity. For example, the European Commissioner for the Internal Market Bolkestein even proposed years ago, listen to Slovenian or Bulgarian workers who would have been assigned by companies to Austria or France receive Slovenian or Bulgarian salaries; and not French or Austrian. However, the Directive has not been adopted. Let us recall the domestic case of Marof Trade, which has been known to state authorities for at least 16 years. There are dozens of such Marofs; Britoff comes to mind. The proposed law will have the same effect for two reasons in particular – the directive limits the right of countries to demand the same level of education and competence from foreign workers as from their nationals. What does that mean? In this way, they can do the same work less qualified. Another unacceptable mechanism introduces mutual evaluation of regulatory legislation. If we translate this into a slightly simpler sentence – Member States, and in particular the European Commission, will force the deregulation of professions, leading to poorer services and, of course, less bargaining power for employees in such deregulated industries. The government promised extensive deregulation of professions in the European Commission's National Reform Programme last year and this year. For example, one of these professions is social work, which continues the trend towards outsourcing of social services in the private sector. At the same time, the approach to the examination is no longer linked to traineeships in public institutions, but to any work experience in the private sector. For the United Left, of course, the task of the country is not to promote brain escape, but to create conditions for employment and well-being here in Slovenia, which is changing from an immigrant country to a country of emigration. The emigration balance is still there, but it is very obvious when we look at statistics, that the educational structure of the emigrants is much higher than the educational structure of the immigrants. Therefore, if it were to be held that it was possible to develop a country by exporting labour, then Greece, Portugal and other countries of mass economic migration would catch up with countries at the centre of the European Union if we were talking about the European Union. In fact, the opposite has happened; therefore, such legislation is unacceptable, especially since the government is continuing to privatise the economic systems that have provided employment in that country. Since God is in the details, as Mies van der Rohe says, and because it is not just a technical law, precisely because of these and such details that I have listed here on behalf of the Group of the United Left, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u154	The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u155	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! With the bill before us, according to the applicant, the European legal order on the recognition of professional qualifications and on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System, the so-called IMI Regulation, is being transposed into national law. The bill follows the main objective – to facilitate the mobility of experts and services in the European Union. The new law covers several content sets: the introduction of a European professional card, the principle of partial access, the modernisation of the general system, the temporary and occasional provision of services, the modernisation of the automatic recognition system on the basis of minimum conditions of competence, access to information and electronic procedures, language requirements, the warning mechanism, the mandatory use of the IMI system for better and easier administrative cooperation of competent authorities in the Member States, and transparency and mutual evaluation; this is a new mechanism that will ensure greater transparency of around 800 regular professions within the European Union on the basis of Member States' reporting to the European Commission. The proposal under consideration, however, relates to the procedural part of the recognition of professional qualifications, while the substantive legal basis is regulated by specific sectoral legislation; health, architecture and veterinaryity, for example. We Christian Democrats are an extremely European-oriented party. Our core programme states that the fundamental and most important non-political framework for Slovenia is the European Union. In the interest of Slovenia, the European Union is strengthening the relative weight of small and medium-sized countries; that is, deepening political integration and coordination of economic and fiscal policies. In this context, Slovenia must develop its own membership priorities in the European Union, including with regard to mechanisms for neutralising the negative effects of the free movement of goods and persons to Slovenian language and cultural specificities. This is precisely what we would like to point out to the proposer that, when implementing the new legislation, he will ensure good monitoring of the effects and will respond as quickly as possible to the negative effects. The level of service in our country should not be reduced due to the free movement of persons. On the other hand, the State should better ensure that there are not so many highly educated and qualified young people forced to move to other more friendly European Union countries. Christian Democrats will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u156	Following is the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, in its name mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions. Although the Legislative and Legal Service has made as many comments as possible to the proposal for a new law and amendments have been needed, we agree with the objectives pursued by this law by the Government. As already explained by the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities during the examination of the mother's labour body, we are just before we receive a reminder of the delay in introducing the changes to the law into our legal order. We certainly want the solutions proposed to help facilitate the mobility of professionals in the internal market of the European Union and to enable European citizens to better carry out their profession in other Member States. We also support the Government's efforts to fully regulate the area covered by the Directives and thus find answers to some other questions. We would like the government to adopt a similar approach in some other important laws that regulate emergency solutions; too often, there are systemic issues that we should take more time to address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u158	Following is the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u159	Mr President, the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your word! The main solutions introduced by the amendments to the European Union Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications to our legal order relate mainly to the simplification of procedures using a European professional card, the transformation and simplification of general rules for the establishment in another Member State or the temporary provision of services in another Member State, the modernisation of the automatic recognition system, in particular for doctors, dental doctors, nurses, graduates, pharmacists and architects, the establishment of a legal framework for partially qualified professionals, the establishment of a legal basis for providing users with friendly and substantive information on rules for the recognition of qualifications and the introduction of systematic review and mutual evaluation for all regulated professions in Member States. Among the solutions contained in the proposal for a law, it is certainly appropriate to point out a European professional card designed to encourage and speed up the recognition process and to ensure its greater transparency. The card provides useful information on the qualifications of service professionals. However, the information system for the internal market allows for easier and faster cooperation between the competent authorities issuing and verifying the cards in the Member States. The proposal also introduces the common principles of training or a common set of minimum levels of knowledge, skills and competence, which constitute a new system for automatic recognition of professional qualifications with a common framework for training and a common test of competence. This highlights the aspect of facilitating the mobility of experts and, consequently, the easier recognition of qualifications. In addition to updating the general system for the recognition of qualifications and the system for automatic recognition on the basis of minimum conditions of competence and certain other solutions, the proposal also allows improved access to information and electronic procedures. In addition to providing information on access to regulated professions and information on the conditions for carrying out regulated professions on the web portal or the single contact point, experts will be allowed to contact the single structure for all administrative procedures related to the establishment, permanent provision of a profession or the provision of services in a Member State. The latter is crucial for reducing procedures and reducing burdens arising from administrative obligations. That is why we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u160	Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u161	The reason for the adoption of the proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions is the harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the legal order of the European Union. This time too, we can regret that the coalition has missed timely implementation of the Directives, since Slovenia should implement these Directives in its legal order by 18 January 2016. We welcome, however, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided on a new law and has thus achieved greater transparency, publicity and understanding. The proposal seeks to facilitate the mobility of professionals and services in the European Union, to increase the ability to meet highly skilled jobs and to offer more opportunities for job seekers in regulated professions, which means a more flexible labour market. The proposal for a law on the basis of a follow-up to the objective of facilitating the mobility of professionals and services in the European Union covers several substantive sets: a European professional card, a principle of partial access, temporary and occasional provision of services, and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we paid particular attention to the requirements of Slovenian language knowledge in the performance of professions in Slovenia. With the amendment adopted on the Committee, the conditions for monitoring the mandatory use of the Slovenian language have increased, which we welcome. However, we will pay attention to how this will work in practice; and propose appropriate legislative changes if the use of Slovenian language in the practice of professions does not prove satisfactory. We will not oppose the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we have a comment on the timing of the bill, because the government is coming with a lot of laws to Parliament when the water is already running down its throat and the European Commission is threatening to punish us. This is, in our opinion, very irresponsible. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should imagine and change such an approach, as this can mean additional pressure on the legislative process and may lead to the adoption of poor, inadequate and questionable solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u162	The final position on this point will be presented by Mr Uroš Prikl, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Hello again! Let me briefly present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a law on the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions. In the Desus Group, we will support the bill. In the introduction of our position, in some way, I cannot help but point out, which has been in practice several times so far, that we have before us one of the rules that we adopt after the deadline for implementing the European Directive into our national, Slovenian legal order. It is true that we are only a few months behind schedule, in some cases inappropriately more, and so we believe that we are not yet in the process before the European Commission. However, it will not be too much to warn and call on the government as well as the competent ministry indirectly to take a more up-to-date approach to meeting the obligations of membership in the European Union. It's not just about the fines that we can face in such cases. It is also important that many times then we rush into our internal order by bringing the European acquis into order; and in the legislative process, as has already been said, we can also adopt an inadequate and incomplete solution in some way. I speak generally; this does not apply to this law, which we consider to be very good; therefore, we will not majorityly, but with all our votes. In some ways, this law is more technical in nature or in some part of a technical nature, as it relates to the procedural part of the recognition of professional qualifications, while the substantive legal basis is based on the specifics of the areas contained in each sector's legislation. The objective of the implementation of the Directive is to remove obstacles to the free movement of persons and services in the internal labour market of the European Union. Removing barriers will facilitate the mobility of professionals and services in the European Union, increase the employability of highly skilled workers and provide more opportunities for job seekers in regulated professions as well. The latter will certainly have a positive impact on the economy. There will be more taxes collected, more contributions, more social states. With regard to the content of this law, I would like to point out in concrete terms a small piece, but not so insignificant, especially for our Group of Members and also for me personally. It is the knowledge of the Slovenian language of the person who will provide regulated professions or services with us, i.e. in the country of Slovenia; its mother tongue is not Slovenian. It is crucial for the service user to be able to agree and understand with a person, i.e. an expert who will perform a specific work for him. Therefore, the requirements for knowledge of the Slovenian language are fully and completely in place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also a matter of appropriate and professional knowledge relating to the performance of a particular profession. However, the relevant knowledge of Slovenian is particularly necessary and necessary in specific exposed areas, and this knowledge must also be scrutinised and verified in a consistent manner. This is certainly the area of health care, since it is the patient’s safety and life. Even after the applicable sectoral law, the person who has been issued a decision on the recognition of a professional qualification must provide proof of the knowledge of the Slovenian language before being employed by the healthcare provider who has offered him an offer to work. Moreover, in the provisions of the proposed law, it is explicit for the case of professions that affect patients' health that this knowledge can, in addition, be verified. For the reason that it brings more mobility, better movement of persons and services to the European Union and, secondly, more opportunities for job seekers, of course, this law, as I said in the first place, will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u164	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 46 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 47 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss the amendments, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the criminal code within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 62 Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Violeto Tomić. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Violeti Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u165	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. The novel of the Penal Code that we are considering today has been prepared in the United Left with the support of the Civil Initiative. The proposal received very broad support as it was signed by as many as 62 Members. The problem of animal torture is a very important topic, but it is not discussed in public. In the area of prosecution, however, the lack of legislation does not cause much to be done. Animal torture is certainly an indicator of the state of society. It is an act of repudiation and cruelty when individuals lie above an animal that is totally dependent on man. People who are able to torture animals who are able to put a firecracker in a dog’s pocket, tie it to a car, burn cats or serve large sums of money by arranging dog fights are certainly able to do something similar to a fellow human. These are behavioural patterns that are simply unacceptable and condemned; therefore, it is also important that legislation in the first place provides an adequate deterrent function and that, in the second instance, it allows effective prosecution and sanctioning of perpetrators. We therefore wanted to send a clear message with the amendment of the law that all forms of animal torture were unacceptable and that, as such, they would be duly sanctioned. The comprehensive solution contained in the bill would ensure the effective prosecution of serial torturers and lay down appropriate prison sentences for them. The basic proposal envisaged four new safety measures to ensure that all animals are taken away from the perpetrators, that the ownership of new animals is prohibited and that further survival is thus prevented. We have also proposed a clearer definition of the crime of animal torture itself, namely that sexual abuse, organisation and participation in animal fighting and neglect of animals causing death or serious injury should also be defined as torture. The bill would also prohibit selective breeding and the sale of fighting animals as a criminal offence. We have therefore proposed a comprehensive regime to ensure that torturers are effectively detected by the police to ensure that the perpetrators of animal torture cannot continue; and to ensure that the perpetrator is also adequately punished for animal survival. But this comprehensive solution is no longer before us today. There is only one small step ahead of us in the right direction. A small step that does not give a clear signal that animal torture will simply not be tolerated by the state. A small step that will not allow the police to effectively prosecute criminal groups that create huge profits at the expense of torturing and killing animals. As first signed under the proposal of the law, I cannot therefore be impressed with what is left of it. I also cannot be impressed by the lack of readiness of the Ministry of Justice to solve this problem. Since the proposal received the support of the constitutional majority, we expected the Ministry to be actively involved in the process. When we received the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, we expected support in the preparation of the relevant amendments, but something completely different happened. The Ministry has delivered a strongly negative opinion. This opinion was followed by a coalition. The amendment of the Penal Code in the form before us today will therefore only take a small step towards adequate animal protection. The organisation of dog fights and the training of fighting dogs will be after a new crime, but the prosecution of perpetrators will continue to be ineffective and the penalties will continue to be far too low. The animal will continue to be treated as an object; neglect of animals, even if this is why it is killed, will continue to be treated only as an offence. This change of law is therefore not enough; it brings part of the necessary solutions, but it is certainly not enough to solve the problem in its entirety. As a result, we will continue to look for appropriate solutions. However, we expect the Ministry of Justice to deliver on its promises as soon as possible and to provide us with a comprehensive solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u167	Greetings, distinguished presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Justice Committee is at its 21st session. 5. as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Mrs Violeto Tomić and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 18. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of Justice, the opinion and amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State. The Government has tabled amendments to the bill 31. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Ms Violeta Tomić, the representative of the proposalant, stressed that the torture of animals is a very repulsive act and it is high time that we also speak publicly about this in the National Assembly. The novelty should clearly define all forms of animal torture, the punishment has a dissuasive effect and the increased range of penalties should give the courts a real possibility of adapting sanctions to a particular case. It is essential to add to the description of the offence of animal torture the sexual abuse of animals, all forms of cooperation and participation in animal and animal fighting and bets that have not been adequately covered so far in the description of the offence. The proposal covers a whole series of measures to deter and sanction such reprisals. The Parliamentary Group of the United Left does not support the government's amendments, but it felt that if they were adopted, at least a small step would be taken in the right direction. However, in future changes to the CAP, the scope of the covert investigation measures for the prosecution, organisation and implementation of animal fighting will need to be adapted accordingly. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that criminal legislation is a serious repression of the State, which must be justified in terms of the principle of ultim ratio, so any amendment to the Penal Code must be weighed. The principle of proportionality requires legislators to substantiate that a specific means of incrimination is, in this case, appropriate and necessary to achieve the desired objective. It is also bound by the principle of proportionality between the offence and the penalty when prescribing the penalty. Moreover, the penalty must reflect the hierarchy of values that prevails or prevails in a given company. With regard to the proposed new four security measures, which could be pronounced for the offences of animal torture and the prohibited selective breeding of animals, she warned that they must not hide among themselves, that there must be a clear relationship between them and the security measures already laid down in the current Kazan Code. Due to the principle of proportionality, they should, as a rule, be limited in time and also actually feasible. However, for each proposed security measure, it should also be verified whether procedural rules for their expression should be laid down in the CAP and whether the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions should regulate the competent authorities and the manner in which the proposed measures are implemented. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Justice said that the Ministry agrees with the position of the Legal and Legislative Service. He expressed his support for the amendment to Article 4, which undoubtedly incriminates the torture of animals with determination to raise legal certainty. National Councillor Mr Jernej Verbič highlighted the urgency of solving the issue of selective animal rearing and the fact that in the field of dog fighting it is used on the basis of the conclusion of illegal attitudes and is an incriminal act in connection with animal torture. It supports the content of the proposal; in the event of non-acceptance, it proposed that the Ministry of Justice should take due account of the content of the proposals in the future government amendments to the Penal Code. The representative of the PIP Institute said that they represent dog fights a big problem, because many dog beds are exclusively reared for the purpose of raising dogs for fighting. She warned that the prosecution was virtually impossible because the police could not use covert investigative measures; and called for amendments to the legislation. In the debate, members and members of the opposition committee felt that the hierarchy of values in society should also be reflected in the proportionality of the penalty at stake. Since it is a matter of organising dog fights for classical criminal activity, which is covered up, investigation measures are necessary to detect. Members and Members of the coalition warned and discussed the issue of animal torture and welcomed the positive steps taken in this area. We already have a criminal offence of animal torture in force in law, and the system is already working on some cases. They agreed that the current incrimination would be complemented by the enforcement of animal fighting or betting. They doubted, however, that the high penalty would really prevent such crimes. They pointed out that the legal and legislative services were concerned with criminal law, where things had to be clearly defined and demarcated and the penalties were placed in the system as a whole. They called for the possibility of the use of covert investigation measures in this case to be included in the change of the CAP in the corresponding catalogue. The Committee then adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! At its meeting on 31 March this year, the Government adopted an opinion and subsequently drafted amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Member, Mrs Violeto Tomić. The applicant assumes that the penalties for perpetrators of animal torture are too low under Article 341 of the Code, that the provision of that Article of the offence does not provide for sufficient clarity and that the Penal Code does not provide for any measures to protect animals, so the proposal lays down four new security measures: the collection of animals, the prohibition of the transfer of animals, the prohibition of contact with the seized animal and the prohibition of the ownership of animals. They complement the description of the offence of torturing animals with new forms of service of this crime, provide for a new offence of prohibited selective breeding of animals and lay down stricter prison sentences. With regard to the criminal penalties prescribed under Article 341 KZ-1, the Government first points out in its opinion that KZ-1B had already increased its sentences since 2011. Thus, the penalty for the offence referred to in Article 341, paragraph 1, of six months has been suspended to one year in prison and for the offence, after the second paragraph, from imprisonment to one year in prison to two years in prison. It is important, however, that this increase in the prescribed penalties has also taken into account the principle of proportionality as regards comparison with the penalties prescribed for other offences in our Code of Criminal Procedure. According to the Government, new security measures could not be implemented because their procedural arrangements and arrangements for the treatment of temporary and permanent animals are lacking. The newly established offence of animal torture is, according to the Government, a disproportionately high prison sentence with a different system of sanctions in force under the applicable code. Penalties are sometimes the same or even stricter as comparable crimes against a person. Since the procedure in the case of the law submitted by the parliamentary group or group of Members is such that there is no professional coordination, the Government has also obtained information from the professional services responsible for the regulation and protection of animals in the design or adoption process of its opinion; and we have also requested the opinion of the Supreme Court. On the basis of the information we have obtained from these bodies, we have drawn up the position of the Government, the amendments and also the amendment by which the Government supports the more appropriate identification and incrimination of the crime, the selective breeding and the incrimination of the bets that are organised in relation to the fight against animals. For this reason, it seems to us that this proposed solution is a contribution to a more specific regulation of this area, this incrimination of such a crime; therefore, the Government supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has a United Left on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you, Vice President. Animal torture is a subject that is certainly not discussed enough. This is an act of repudiation and condemnation, which most often ends only with a payment order. We have prepared a novel of the Penal Code in the United Left on the basis of information from the field. It is therefore a response to the warnings of the professions and people who deal with this issue daily and also face exactly the same problems every day. The current regime has two main problems. The first is that legislation does not necessarily provide the necessary dissuasive function and the second does not allow effective prosecution and appropriate sanctioning of torturers. The basic proposal of the law provided precisely this – its adoption would clearly signal that all forms of animal torture are unacceptable and that, as such, they will be duly sanctioned. In order to achieve this objective, we have proposed the introduction of four new security measures that would prevent the torturer from torturing any other animal. The tormentor would thus be deprived of all the animals he already has and be banned from owning new animals. In this way, he would be prevented from torturing the animals further. As far as the definition of the crime itself is concerned, we have proposed a clear definition of all forms of animal torture; we have also identified sexual abuse as a cruel treatment of an animal. We have defined the organisation, cooperation and implementation of animal fighting and betting on fighting as a crime. Today, it is only a crime. As a crime, we have also identified inappropriate animal care. The torture of animals caused by the custodian by the animal’s failure to provide adequate housing, food, water and other basic care and, consequently, the animal’s death would become a criminal offence. The bill also contained a completely new crime, namely the prohibition of selective breeding of animals. Here is the thought of breeding, the key purpose of which is to increase aggression and body weight, for such breeding of animals has serious consequences. Dogs that breeders do not have to sell for dog fights are sold online. In this way, a trained dog may be in the hands of an unsuspecting owner of a soon - to - be - murder weapon. In addition to these solutions, a more appropriate prison sentence has been proposed for each of the defined offences. The height we suggested would be guaranteed by two. Firstly, I would play my dissuasive role; secondly, I would ensure that the police can effectively prosecute the perpetrators. Of all the laws we have listed on our tables, there is only one more article today. In the United Left, we have coordinated the bill several times with all co-signers and in the final proposal we have also taken into account all their comments. Despite the 62 signatures of the Members and Members, the Government gave an extremely negative opinion and the coalition followed him despite the co-signature as usual. Despite the harmonised text and the agreement that a comprehensive solution was needed in the field of animal torture, amendments were adopted by the Committee, which deleted almost all the articles of the proposal. Instead of a comprehensive solution, we have today received a proposal for a new Penal Code, which represents only a small step forward. With a new proposal, the organisation of dog fights and the training of dogs to fight crime, but the prosecution of perpetrators will continue to be ineffective, the penalties will continue to be far too low, the animal will continue to be treated as an object, the neglect of animals, even if it kills itself, will continue to be treated only as an offence. In the United Left, we believe that any form of animal torture is unacceptable. The Government and the coalition's arguments that we have no problems in this area and that animal torture is properly regulated as an offence do not require us to agree. We are convinced that more needs to be done in the field of animal protection and that serial animal torturers need to be strictly sanctioned. We will, of course, continue to do so. So today it is only the first small step that we will support in the United Left; but that is not all that will happen. We expect more attention to be given to animal protection in the future. However, we expect concrete action from both competent ministers. In the United Left, we will certainly monitor developments regarding the provision of adequate animal protection and continue to point out any shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u173	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! In each society, a scale of values followed by the majority is established. They refer to a small constitution of some kind, so it is important how we define ourselves to these values. In Novi Slovenija, we put man first. His life is untouchable and it is right that the Penal Code for every threat to him lays down the strictest sanctions. Since criminal law constitutes a serious repressive intervention by a State which is only used as a extreme measure, they must be absolutely weighed and justified and must reflect one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, that is the principle of proportionality between crime and punishment. For this reason, we did not support the original proposal for the new Penal Code tabled by the United Left. True, animals are also living creatures, and many owners treat them contrary to them, torture them, treat them harshly, or even breed them solely for animal control. Christian Democrats strongly condemn this and defend the punishment of the perpetrators. Thus, to punish – yes, but by applying criminal law only when the minor means are no longer available. In doing so, it should be noted that it is necessary to assess whether a particular measure is appropriate to achieve the desired objective. Any incrimination must be based absolutely on the principle of proportionality, which was not found in the United Left proposal. The current legislation already criminalizes the offence of animal torture. There is a prison sentence of up to one year. The proposer proposed an increase in the prison sentence of up to three years and identified several qualified forms of the offence, including participation or participation in animal fighting. Let's look at the next comparison. The same Code for Crimes against Life and Work and the Body lays down a prison sentence for serious injury from six months to five years and for particularly serious injury from one to ten years. In Nova Slovenija, we do not think that we can compare the risk of life and physical harm to the injury of animals. Nor can we compare the amount of costs for the monthly care of a dog in an animal shelter with the minimum wage of our citizens or the lowest pension. If you don't know, the daily allowance is 19.12 euros. So it costs 600 euros a month for animals. Since the updated proposal for the amendment of the Penal Code now retains the sanctions of the current Code for animal torture and adds to the incrimination of the organisation of animal fighting and animal breeding for animal control, we will support the amendment in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u175	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The problem of torturing the animals that are ahead of us was the project that he promised. It was a partnership between civil initiative and parties in Parliament. And the guarantee of success was the largest parliamentary party. At the meetings we had, we expected the client to use the institutions that are in the government with which I have good contacts and to obtain all the necessary information. Of course, we were aware that the proposal was not legally harmonised. And this is where we expected the added value to be given by the government when the law is designed so that it is in accordance with all the legislation. But that didn't happen, and of all the amendments, five were deleted, one was left. Of course, we will support this amendment in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, because it is a small step in the right direction. However, we expect that the solutions will soon be before us and that they will be well and qualitatively explained. It is that the government has repeatedly promised us that it will not accept certain solutions, for it is preparing systemic and comprehensive solutions. And that is why we expect a systemic and comprehensive solution to come before us soon. We have highlighted in these solutions the problem that is still quite pressing in Europe. The United Nations, Europol, SOCTA Report, and so on, reminds us of dog fights, dog breeding and trafficking, the sale and trade of endangered species. And the dog fights and bets associated with these dog fights are the problems of organised criminal groups. The fight against these groups is also a covert investigation. However, for these covert investigations, we need incrimination that is appropriate so that these covert investigations can be initiated. And that is exactly what we expected this legislation to bring. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we expect a comprehensive solution, which will soon be before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mag. Liliana Kozlovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u177	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! He is not a Member and there is no man who would reasonably support the torture of animals, unless something is wrong with him. For he who is willing to torture animals means that he will also do it to man, and is able to do it. We appreciate and support the work of the civil initiative and also the initiative of the proposer. Our intention has been from the beginning and remains honest. From the very beginning, we helped the proposer, gained the position of the Ministry of Justice and coordinated ourselves. On everything we could not agree on, and therefore all the signatories agreed that we would respect the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Unfortunately, when faced with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we have found that it has pointed out that certain acts are defined as offences only as the last resort when all others are dismissed; that certain conduct is already prescribed as an offence and cannot be covered by a description of the offence. In particular, they stressed the principle of proportionality between the offence and the prescribed sanction, especially since the criminal justice profession and the government had already increased the penalties for those offences in 2011. With regard to security measures, however, they are already laid down in the Animal Protection Act, to the extent that they do have a preventive effect; however, there remains a sanction imposed by coercion and to a large extent an interference with fundamental human rights and freedoms. The same concerns were expressed by the Council of State, which warned that there were discards, but we must respect the rule of law and, at the next stage of the adoption of the bill to coordinate and complement the legal experts, who will help to resolve the comments of the Rule of Law and the concerns of the Government. In the light of the agreement of everyone at the time of the co-signature of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinions of the Council of State and the Government, we have followed these views in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre and we support the expert opinion of the Government, because criminal law is one where there is no room for political decisions, and we should also want them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u179	President, thank you for your word. Topics, which certainly include the fight against animal torture, are always quite resilient and practical for the cheap collection of political points due to emotional response. Unfortunately, this time the amendment of the Penal Code was no different. Let me remind you, the proposed amendment of the Penal Code was prepared in the United Left and signed by, among other things, by all coalition parties. Even before the amendment was discussed on the working body, we have become the target of attacks in the Slovenian Democratic Party, including by the proponents, when we do not want to co-sign a proposal for amendments to the Code, we oppose tightening measures in the area of combating animal torture. How correct our decision was, however, is the final result of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, which is virtually no longer. Coalition parties have made a salad of mortal, so that the content as proposed is not. In front of us is a mutilated version, and it has been mutilated by co-signers — coalition parties SMC, SD and Desus. In the procedure tabled, the proposal envisaged eight amendments and additions to the provisions of the Penal Code aimed at defining more clearly the forms of animal torture, the introduction of appropriate measures to punish animals as victims of the crime committed and the increase in the penalty. And what is this amendment today? The seven proposed amendments have been deleted and the remaining amendments have been amended. It should also be pointed out that, on the proposal for amendments to the Penal Code tabled by the United Left, the Legislative and Legal Service has drawn attention to the problem of proportionality between crime and punishment. In this light, it would therefore be appropriate to think in the direction of alternative possible forms of criminal policy, which may have a significantly greater impact than, for example, a financial measure against the torturer or the perpetrator of the crime. In criminal policy, it is not only fair but also effective. I would prejudge the words if I argued that the applicants did not take the proposal seriously. But the final result of the Spanish coalition is in front of us – there is nothing left. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we rightly ask ourselves who is in fact concerned with the issue and the protection of animals – those who do not want to participate in such political manoeuvres and give false hope to all who sincerely fight animal abuse; or those who use such topics for cheap collection of political points. All the way up until now. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that measures against animal torture and the introduction of appropriate measures to protect animals as victims of a crime are actually necessary. That is why we will definitely monitor this one change.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Stare, co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a novel of the Penal Code was tabled on the initiative of the Civil Initiative to stop dog fighting. Members and Members of the Desus Group also signed the bill. We have decided to introduce the novel because we have assessed that legislation in this area is still weak and that animal tormentors are often unpunished or penalised with no dissuasive effect. Unfortunately, many times we can see the horrendous images of animal torture, and therefore we are obliged to do our utmost to punish the tormentors and to prevent such acts. Animals are living beings to be treated with care. We do not agree with some arguments that we should not punish the perpetrators strictly because it is not a crime or a crime against a person. An animal is a sensitive living company, I repeat, and it's not a thing that belongs to someone and can do what he wants with it. The aim of the novel was to clearly define all forms of animal torture and to determine the level of punishment by playing an important deterrent function in the first place; in the second, by allowing effective prosecution and punishment of torturers. New forms of crime would be identified, inter alia, following the original text of the novel. The cruel treatment and sexual abuse of animals, as well as the organization, participation and assistance of animals, would be clearly defined as animal torture. The proposal also provided for a completely new crime, namely the prohibition of selective breeding of animals. When introducing the bill, we received the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which reminded us in particular of the principle of proportionality in relation to comparison with the penalties prescribed for other offences. We have also been warned that some proposed solutions will not be implemented in practice. That is why we decided on the Home Committee to support the amendments proposed by the Government. If the bill is adopted, the penalties for permanent mutilation of animals and the causing of animal deaths will be increased in a cruel manner. We are pleased, however, that among the new crimes, there will also be an organisation of animal fighting, which, under the current legislation, will only be defined as an offence. It will also punish those who are involved in breeding and raising animals for combat, here we think of dog fights. We are aware that these solutions are only a small step compared to what was in the initial bill; we are also aware of the disappointments of civil initiative initiators, but we attach ourselves to the fact that criminal legislation needs to be amended with caution. With warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, we finally agreed to abandon the changes that could be unconstitutional. Concerned is the expert's assessment that in Slovenia about 20 dog breeds are sold around the world by dogs for dog fights and dogs from Slovenia. At the same time, dog fights also take place on our soil. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we believe that the adoption of the novel will make a significant step towards bridging this problem. Let me get this straight. The law brings positive changes in this area, so we will support it in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will postpone the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! Allow me to add to the position of the Group of Social Democrats on amendments the provisions of the Penal Code, which has been incorporated into the parliamentary procedure through the signatures of Members and we support it in our group. Such a number of signatories, which 62 Members have signed under the proposal of the novel, shows that the awareness that the torture of animals is an act of repudiation, which is both unacceptable and simply impossible and must not be tolerated. Since it was adopted on the parental committee, it is less than we wanted; but we are aware that, at this moment and at this point, there is still a step forward which sends out a message to the public that animal suffering and abuse in the value system of our society is not acceptable. As early as 2013, by amending the Animal Protection Act, we have done much to ensure the welfare of animals and have made it clear to the public that any behaviour that constitutes animal abuse is unacceptable. Slowly but consistently, judicial practice is also established. In the last period, a number of torturers have been convicted. Legislation is a living matter, so in changed circumstances it needs an upgrade or a change; and so we see today's proposal as another step on this path. We would like to point out that the Social Democrats are aware that the path does not end here as well and that a number of changes will be needed. Among other things, we need to find the right solutions and properly translate what has now fallen out of the original text. Some provisions on ownership and suffering caused by negligence will also need to be cleared, as we cannot accept this anymore. Today, a new provision is introduced in the Penal Code, which defines as a criminal offence also the organisation of animal fighting or the attitude regarding animal fighting and the cultivation and training of animals for fighting. There is a risk of imprisonment for two years and a fine; if an animal is killed or is permanently crippled, a prison sentence of up to three years is threatened for such an act. The belief that cruelty to animals also leads to crime is very old. The punishment of suffering is therefore more moral than a legal issue, according to some. It is a question of setting boundaries between allowable behaviours and also of detecting deviantity, which often manifest itself directly to animals. This category includes dog fights, which, according to our firm belief, are one of those practices that must undoubtedly be prosecuted in order to prevent such acts to the greatest extent. It is one of the most repulsive acts where, for the purposes of their own ego and their own pocket, animals are tortured in the lowest possible manner. Jeremy Bentham, an English legal philosopher thinking at the age of enlightenment, was at the turn of the 18th and 19th centuries one of those who called for the legal arrangements for the protection of animals by reason of reason, quote: "The cock fight, the bullfights, the hunting of rabbits and foxes, the fishing and other similar forms of entertainment require us to self-reflex and open the question of humanity. These forms of entertainment cause sensitive beings severe suffering and the slowest and most painful death that can be imagined. Why would legislation rule out the protection of any sensitive being? The time will come when humanity will fill all the breathing creatures. The slaves have already triggered mercy, and it will end by softening ourselves to the animals that work for us and satisfy our needs." End of quote. This makes such actions unacceptable today, in 2016. If we are talking about modern society, there must be no obstacle and no doubt that such practices are being prevented, banned and tolerated. Two centuries of uninterrupted progress in the field of animal protection inspires confidence in mankind and gives faith that one day we will establish a legal order that will work preventively and prevent any form of animal abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving to 20. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on road transport rules, the first defence. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with their first signed Magi are members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u185	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! The Road Traffic Rules Act classified bicycles and bicycles in the same category with an auxiliary engine up to 50 cubic centimetres of volume. This is a one-way or two-way vehicle driven by a driver with his own power or by an auxiliary engine capable of reaching a speed of not more than 25 kilometres per hour; this is in fact equivalent to normal wheels. The reason for this is the built - in factory protection, which prevents higher speeds than 25 kilometers per hour. Nevertheless, minors often take advantage of this similarity by removing the mentioned speed - limiting protection, thus exceeding speed and speed of up to 90 kilometres per hour. The difference between a scooter and a so-called twenty-five with stronger wheels and a motor is thus only in electronics that limit speed. With regard to other characteristics, everything is the same — weight, size, leadership, and unfortunately, speed. No need to have a driving licence, no registration, technical inspection or protection of bicycles with an auxiliary engine. The driver does not need a protective helmet to ride with them and this is also the reason that it is most popular among the younger participants in the transport. A bicycle with an auxiliary engine can be used by a 12-year-old person who, of course, lacks any specific knowledge of road traffic regulations, has even less experience. The following comparison is completely incomprehensible, and let us listen. The bicycle has the right to drive on its own on the road of a child who is at least 12 years old and has a bicycle card; and a person who is over 14 years old also needs a bicycle helmet to drive. The conditions for riding a bicycle are therefore stricter than the conditions for riding bicycles with an auxiliary engine. Another thing is unacceptable: bicycle drivers with auxiliary motor can also use streets and roads that are primarily designed for pedestrians, can ride on bicycle paths and other areas where pedestrians and especially vulnerable groups of pedestrians — children, mothers with children’s carts, disabled persons, older persons, and could also list them. Wheels with auxiliary engine are also not entered in any record. Today, no institution knows how many bicycles an auxiliary engine rides in the country and how many are involved in various traffic offences or even accidents. These vehicles are only registered or recorded as bicycles in official statistics. As a result, such a bicycle is also difficult to track and it is almost impossible to sanction drivers. The main innovation that we are proposing in New Slovenia is the establishment of the lowest age limit for auxiliary bike drivers, 14 years old, and the mandatory use of a protective helmet up to the age of 18. We also propose the conclusion of compulsory basic insurance, as in the engine bike category. In the event of an accident, liability will also be covered from this insurance policy. The total cost of the owner under this heading will be around EUR 30. However, this is not possible under the current regime, since the bicycle with the auxiliary engine does not need to be protected; in the event of a traffic accident, only the possibility of a civil action remains for the injured person. Since it is now almost entirely impossible to track or identify the owner of the bicycle using the auxiliary engine, the law also entails mandatory use of so-called identification plates. The identification plate is not a registration plate, I stress that it is not a registration plate, as this bike will not have to be registered as a bike with an engine, but the competent administrative authority will enter the bicycle with an auxiliary engine on the basis of the concluded purchase-sale contract into the registration of bicycles with an auxiliary engine. Dear fellow Members, because this is a matter of security, in this case it is the safety of the weakest in road transport, I appeal to you that we support and give the bill an opportunity at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u186	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I swear to Grebenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Any road traffic participant wishes to have a transport system that meets his needs and expectations. The quality of life depends to a large extent also on safe mobility, and therefore road transport is also the responsibility of a country which has the necessary levers, with which, in addition to individuals, it has a direct or indirect impact on this area. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia with a first-signed mag. Matei Tonin, amends and complements the content that is regulated by three regional laws under the current road safety regime. The scope of the approved protective motor vehicle helmet is governed by Article 34 of the Road Traffic Rules Act; the age requirement for wheel-driving with an auxiliary motor is governed by Article 49 of the Drivers Act; the scope of registration, registration plates and compulsory bicycle protection with an auxiliary motor would be best regulated by the Motor Vehicle Act in the light of the proposed content. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the content of certain proposed solutions, it considers that, given the substantive dispersion of the proposed content, it is not possible to resolve them in a partial manner, since they require a systematic approach to at least three of these road safety rules. In addition, it is necessary to provide financial resources for the establishment of the central record. Let me say that the Government intends to open and give consideration to the National Assembly all three laws already this year. The first of these will be the Motor Vehicle Act, which is scheduled for inter-resortmental treatment in May, before the end of the month, and will, indirectly, solve a large part of the problem by different delineation of individual vehicle groups; at least as regards the safety and use of helmets on smaller motor vehicles, so-called mopeds. We therefore propose that Member groups or Members do not support the proposal to amend the laws of the said Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u188	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be represented by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u189	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! Traffic safety and related protection of all road users is today a category that, due to rapid technical progress and increasing numbers of young drivers, requires a lot of attention. The National Road Safety Programme 2013-2022 as a strategic document in this area sets a vision of nothing for its long-term objective. Nothing dead or badly damaged by traffic accidents. Driving bicycles by auxiliary motor represents a large grey fox of traffic safety, as the number of accidents with them is increasing; especially in urban settlements and also in Primorske. Last year alone, more than a hundred accidents took place in the Koper Police Administration area, where bikers and bicycle drivers were involved with an auxiliary engine, including all vehicles not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour. As many as 14 individuals were more severely injured, more than 70 were easier, and two even suffered from the Road Traffic Rules Act in the same basket of swords by bikers and scooter drivers, so-called twenty-five, who can ride the same way as bikers on bicycle paths and on roads that are primarily intended for pedestrians. [[...]] Can you imagine a scooter or a bicycle with an auxiliary engine, as defined by a law that drives at a speed of 25 kilometers an hour, being hit by a pedestrian, a child, or an older person?Oh, my God! What are the consequences if this wheel is processed and the factory protection is removed, which otherwise prevents faster driving than 25 kilometres per hour? The fact is, in these cases they can also drive at speeds of up to 90 kilometers per hour. It is also worth noting that the most auxiliary bike drivers are minors, 12 years of age, who do not know how to take responsibility for their actions. And if we cannot ask them to do so, it is the concern and duty of us adults, and in particular of us Members, who can, by adopting changes such as today's, prevent an increase in the number of traffic accidents. Together with this, we can contribute to our shared vision – a vision of nothing. For us Members of New Slovenia, every life counts. We are confident that for all of you, my fellow Members, too. Therefore, we are convinced that the New Slovenia proposal, which mainly means greater safety for bicycle drivers with an auxiliary engine and also for other road users, cannot be rejected. Let's just look at some unacceptable facts of the current law. A bicycle with an auxiliary engine can drive a 12-year-old child without any examination and without the knowledge of road traffic regulations. He doesn't need a protective helmet or a bicycle card to drive after 14. A bicycle in road traffic can drive on its own a 12-year-old child, but it must have a bicycle exam to do so. He also needs a protective bicycle helmet. For bicycle riding, therefore, the legal rules lay down stricter requirements than for bicycle riding by auxiliary motor. We Christian Democrats are convinced that it should be the opposite, because the twenty-five are not and cannot be a bicycle. Therefore, a higher age limit when a child can become a driver of twenty-five is justified. Also mandatory use of protective helmets up to the age of 18 years and the conclusion of compulsory basic insurance and the use of identification plates. This is not a registration plate which, in accordance with the Motor Vehicle Act, would mean a greater financial burden for their owners; it is only a registration plate that will allow for the identification of the bicycle. The cost incurred for the owner is negligible compared to the property damage caused or even death in the event of a traffic accident. Members of New Slovenia will be supported by the law submitted. We are surprised by the attitude of the government and the ministry that it can wait in this area and that this year this area will be settled. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are ahead of the summer season in which such accidents are most common, so we expect and we want to support our proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u190	Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u191	All those who accompany this meeting at this time of time! The last law is on the agenda today, namely the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act. It is about going in the trend of Europe and the preventive direction of such legislation is still important. It's about enforcing the principle of defensive safe driving and it's about protecting the weakest and the vulnerable. These are especially young people, and we must not forget that in recent times, older ones, who are increasingly involved and victims of accidents, as well as those of vehicles that are limited to 25 kilometres per hour. It is about regulating a subject that is still important today and accepting it as soon as possible, for we have the summer season ahead of us. We're trying to protect the youngest. It is a matter of introducing minimum changes, introducing helmets up to 18 years, although also recommended further, and the minimum age limit, which slightly rises, that children have the opportunity to gain experience with ordinary bicycles, will then be further marketed on auxiliary engines. It is about preventing misuse of registration plates and trying to protect traffic participants and transferring liability to insurance companies. We will therefore support the proposed solutions in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We hope that the proposed solutions will also be supported by the coalition and that the government will approach the issue and actively help to resolve the matter; not to dissect the proposal and the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u192	The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u193	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for the amendment of the Law on Road Traffic Rules, which was tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, offers solutions related to the use of bicycles with auxiliary engines. The fact is that today's legislation, the Road Traffic Rules Act, is actually equivalent to bicycles with auxiliary motors with these wheels, with the construction of which should not allow speeds of more than 25 kilometres per hour. As infringements occur in practice and these wheels reach higher speeds, we believe that bicycles with auxiliary engines need to be defined more appropriately, ensuring safe use by drivers and other road users. The new Road Traffic Rules Act proposes solutions relating to the establishment of the minimum age limit for auxiliary bike drivers of 14 years; the mandatory use of a protective helmet; the introduction of compulsory basic insurance as already applicable to the category of bicycles with engines; and the mandatory use of identification plates. At the preliminary stage of the proposal, we were informed of the opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which does not contradict the content of some of the proposed amendments; however, it points out that the content proposal interferes with the content of three other laws: the Road Traffic Rules Act, the Drivers Act and the Motor Vehicle Act. For those reasons, the Ministry points out that it is not appropriate to regulate this area in a partial manner, but that appropriate solutions should be included in an integrated system-wide amendment of legislation in this area. In view of the planned changes in the legislation of the Ministry of Infrastructure already under preparation, we expect amendments to this area by this year's holiday, which will provide effective protection for all road users while putting the content properly into existing legislation. For these reasons, we believe that the proposal for the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act is not suitable for further consideration. We will not support this law's modern centre in the Parliamentary Group. Of course, we appeal to the Ministry to adhere to the deadlines for which it has committed itself and to implement all legislation as soon as possible on the good initiatives given by New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u194	Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u195	Dear colleagues, dear Vice President! The main innovation brought by the Road Traffic Rules Act is the establishment of a minimum age limit for bicycle drivers with an auxiliary engine of 14 years. Also mandatory use of safety and protective helmets up to the age of 18 years. The conclusion of compulsory basic insurance is also a more important novelty, which is further introduced by law, than in the engine cycle category. This insurance policy will be liable in the event of an accident. The total cost of the owner under this heading will be around EUR 30. This is not possible under the current regime, since the auxiliary engine bike does not need to be protected; and in the event of a traffic accident, only the possibility of a civil action remains for the injured person. The fact is that today the drivers of these bicycles are aware that they are not insured, so in practice they are often fleeing the scene of the accident. In the case of complaints lodged where the cause of the accident has been identified, there may be very high compensation claims that are paid by parents in most cases; for most of the causes of accidents are minors. Since it is now almost entirely impossible to track or identify the owner of the bicycle using the auxiliary engine, the law also entails mandatory use of identification plates. These will be installed on the bike with the engine and will allow the immediate identification of its owner. The identification plate is not a registration plate, as this bike will not have to be registered as a bike with an engine; the competent administrative authority will only enter the bicycle with an auxiliary engine on the basis of the concluded purchase-sale contract into the registration of bicycles with an auxiliary engine. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u196	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable and respected, all present! Members and Members of the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia do not support the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act for the most part; we will therefore vote in our conscience. We understand and support the proposaler's intention to draw attention to the problem of bicycles with auxiliary engines, which are increasingly emerging due to the ease of accessibility and loose driving rules. The problem highlighted by the applicants is also, in our view, very present. During motorcycle violations, police have also found that overruns of the maximum permitted speed are prevalent, namely, 25 kilometres per hour, non-indication of the direction of driving, non-compliance with the ground signs of driving in the opposite direction on the bicycle tracks and so on. This is why the police have proposed to the Ministry of Infrastructure an amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act, which is one of the three laws that should actually be amended in addition to the Drivers Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act, if the problem is to be really addressed. The police agree with the novelty that a registered and secured vehicle of this type will produce positive effects in the event of a traffic accident of such a vehicle, as it provides adequate compensation to the other party involved in the accident. By means of a traffic permit, a police officer knows exactly what kind of vehicle it is and can take appropriate action. There are many irregularities now, and police officers are often powerless because drivers do not have sufficient documentation on the vehicle, making it impossible for a police officer to take appropriate measures or to extend the procedure considerably due to the identification of the vehicle data. However, the police and the government, as a consequence, consider the proposed regulation to be non-systemic, since the definition of a new category of vehicle "wheel with auxiliary engine" does not fall under the Road Traffic Rules Act. Therefore, most of our Group agrees with the Government's view that the proposal is not appropriate for support because it interferes with three laws at once. Such a problem, which, while we are well aware of in the government and in our Group of Members, needs to be addressed systematically. At the same time, we would also like to point out that the applicant wrongly states that the proposal has no financial implications. According to our assessment, the proposal would have financial implications, as an intervention in the register of motor vehicles would be needed due to the possible new recording of these bicycles. In the Desus Group, we expect the government to send a new amendment to the legislative procedure for the summer holidays, which, in view of the systematic approach to solving this problem, needs to be changed. Therefore, we will closely monitor the work of the Ministry of Infrastructure and, if necessary, point out the possible delay in solving the problem of bicycles with an auxiliary engine in order to increase traffic safety for users of these bicycles, as well as for other road users who are often most at risk by drivers of such, in particular processed bicycles. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u198	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u199	Mr Vice President, good evening, colleagues and colleagues! Transport security is one of the key things the National Assembly must face, even in line with time and changes. Therefore, it is possible to welcome the proposal of the proposer to set the minimum age limit for auxiliary bike drivers, the mandatory use of the helmet, the mandatory conclusion of the basic insurance and the mandatory use of identification plates. The fact is that the proposal addresses some important issues and at the same time leaves out some of those which are also announced through a government proposal that regulates this problem set. In the fact that the existing proposal interferes with the Road Traffic Rules Act, the Drivers Act and the Motor Vehicle Act, and that Slovenia, at the same time, adopts such legislation in situations where we are still late in implementing the European Directive in this area, we believe that, in view of the timeframe given by the Government, it is essential to support the legislation proposed and prepared by the Government; we also avoid constantly amending the laws in the same area and to create additional bureaucratic obstacles, costs and, above all, confusion among the users of the areas concerned. Regardless of the fact that this is a suitable set of solutions, which does not address the whole segment of the problem, which we believe is to be settled, we will reject the New Slovenia proposal. By the end of this month, we expect a presentation of the proposal by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u200	The position of the Group The United Left will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! Of course, we have an opinion in the United Left, but I'm not going to read it. However, we will support this amendment of the law because we think it is good because it is essential to contribute to transport safety, in particular to the safety of young citizens and citizens. We were all young once, who might have done a motorcycle hairstyle. It's just some kind of fact. It is our responsibility to ensure the safety of users of such vehicles, which we call bicycles with auxiliary engines. Now that we're listening to this debate, why won't the coalition support this; I'm a professor and I'd like to ask you what the system is, what's systemic. All of this mandate almost anything the opposition proposes, we will get some counter back – ah, because we take note, but we will systematically resolve it. But specifically in this case, if we translate this into human language, what are we talking about? As long as we do not systematically solve this, young people — not just adolescents, including Marko Ferruga, when he buys a small motor — will break their heads. It's very simple. This proposal is likely to be rejected. If I wasn't, the United Left would be a novelist for the use of helmets for over 18 years of age. This bill is one typical bill where we should avoid our ideological differences. And there's a whole series of these kinds of proposals for legislation in the field of infrastructure, environment and space. I must say that, on behalf of the United Left, we simply do not understand the rejection of this bill by the coalition. On several occasions, I have been on a committee dealing with infrastructure issues, and of which I am also vice-president, I have said that in some normal parliaments, committees are also writing such a law together and preparing it. If the coalition had so much against it, we could sit on the committee – because you often come unprepared to the committee, especially from the Modern Centre Party, that you don't even know what's going on, just so that you can raise your hand – and make a nice amendment from what the executive authorities would say and from what the police would say. So it's not just me, it's the United Left that represents some normal work in Parliament. And these arguments of yours today, I've been on sick leave for 14 days, and it's been for me to throw up, really, ever since I got back, I have to admit. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm looking, hi. I'm sorry I took some creative freedom. This is the way we'll never get anywhere. A law that solves a matter — it is an integral part of the development of some societies; we have a phenomenon that has not existed before, and we need to regulate it. And if we get caught up in some so simple phenomenon that you've read so much here, it's almost launch on Mars, how are we going to solve anything?Oh, my God! Then we won't save Tinker Bell's wine for a ref, then we won't solve what we don't know. And this is actually a mockery and a misunderstanding of parliamentary democracy in principle. I'm mad, and I'm gonna stop now. We will, of course, support this, but we will probably be over-voted. We will probably slowly, regardless of our ideological obstacles, in the opposition we can start gathering at a café, one I will come to say; you will say that you will systematically save and sooner the mandate will end. And all these governments that have been in power since the beginning of the crisis, which have wasted a decade; you will lose another decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u202	We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u203	Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much for your opinions presented in the views of the parliamentary groups! Not that I am sad, but I was expecting such an opinion as a proponent, first of all by the government and the ruling coalition, despite the various impressions in the corridors of the national assembly. But everyone in this national assembly agrees with the bill. And you all said in the views of the parliamentary groups that this was a step forward, that it really needed to be regulated. The coalition said – we have to do this systemically. At the same time, I really don't understand the government proposal, which says that they fully agree on certain things; but I don't understand the reference to the Motor Vehicle Act. This law does not apply or does not apply to bicycles and bicycles with an auxiliary engine. I don't know why this argument with the Motor Vehicle Act, what it wants to change. These excuses are that we are now starting to really polarize, usually throwing this on New Slovenia or throwing it on New Slovenia more than once; but unfortunately we also polarize in those laws that are good. And we're dividing ourselves into left and right. And as an argument why we will reject a good law, we say - because we have a systemic solution that will once be adopted. Without one obligation when it will be adopted, without the fact that the law would already be in Parliament. And this is not only the case in this law, because the same has happened in the Banking Act, where copies of the New Slovenia bill are put into Parliamentary Procedure by the Government; then the government gives a different opinion that the New Slovenia Act does not support it. That's how we do it, I'm sorry. And today, one step back will be taken to understand whether we can be united in this National Assembly at least when it comes to security, this law speaks mainly of safety, not only of the safety of bicycle users with an auxiliary engine, but also of the safety of pedestrians, the safety of other road users, the safety of disabled persons and so on. And if we all agree with the law, then I really expected to support the marriage. I don't understand why you have to wait for the government because the law is good here on the table. Let's give him a chance, we'll continue to amend him, because the government doesn't have a built-in position either, given that he's going to interfere with the Motor Vehicle Act, so you're saying, which has nothing to do with it. And we've got summer ahead of us. Most accidents, fatal accidents, when people die, occur in the summer months and mostly in the coast. Primorski Members, some of you were mayors in the coastal municipalities, you know this very well that during the summer months they happen daily in Primorska, on the streets of the places of fatal accident. Statistics are not as black and white as some want to display. Here I will refer to the famous Slovenian singer Mr Ivančič, who was because he did not use helmets, but he did everything in accordance with the law, was badly damaged and supports this change of law. Last year, two people died, more were injured — and most of all during the summer months. The government will come by law, if I understand the government representatives correctly, by the end of the year; although I know the functioning of every government, it will be by the end of next year. Then let's think about whether there's more weight on the "against" button just because of the principle that we don't support something good. And on the other hand, what human life is about because of this principle of ours. Or will we finally decide and say that this summer will be less accidents, less injuries. And I suggest we do the following today. What does marriage bring? You've read it well yourself, it's one of the laws that's easier. And I have seen in the views of the groups of the Members that we do know him. The first proposal is the age of 14 years for bicycle riding with a motor, now this age is 12 years; mandatory use of helmets up to 18 years of age, compulsory insurance, same as for bike category with engine. Why? Traffic accident, this could happen to any of us. Traffic accident, there's nothing we can do against this person who rode a bike with a motorcycle, absolutely nothing like a civil suit. Nothing. That car, that bike with the engine, it's not insured. It's like a civil suit; we could be injured. And what happens? The whole tragedy happens, these are usually younger people, 13 or 14 years old, parents can take on the financial burden. In our case, the insurance companies would take over. Such are the experiences, these people come to us, parents pay thousands and thousands of euros in compensation. The cost of insurance is approximately EUR 30. The I.D. plate, there's a lot of escapes from the scene of the accident, and even where there's, say, security cameras or there's a chance of shoplifting, crowding, and so on. And where the security cameras are, they never track this individual on a bike with a motorcycle. They never trace it because there's no marking on that engine anywhere. The individual goes into the first garage, goes home, and this motorbike gets painted. It's the smallest thing. According to our proposal for a law, this would be amended and I stress that it is not a registration issue; it is only a matter of the competent authority entering this bike with a motor into the record as a bicycle with an auxiliary engine; and absolutely nothing else. And when we calculate the cost of that, I'm going to say one thing now, as Karl Erjavec says about the banks, how much money we've already thrown into the banks, and in this case I'm going to use it. Compared to how much we throw into banks, how much human life is worth if we put an I.D. on this engine. And what's most important is the safety of these individuals on the engine itself. These are vehicles with built-in roadblocks so you can't go more than 25 kilometers an hour. Now we're not talking about electric vehicles, we're talking about mopeds on gasoline. And when they bring this bike into the first garage, these individuals, 12, 13 years old, take this chip out. And experts say that this bike can actually go up to 90 kilometers an hour. But each one goes 80, easily, they say. It can be 90, 100, 50 – no problem. And watch out, watch out – nobody controls it, nobody knows it. These people don't have to ride only on the bike paths, they can run along Chop's street between the pedestrians. Not 25 kilometers an hour, but 50, 60 kilometers an hour. And not only that, of course, the injuries are much greater, but individuals don't have to have helmets. I know that now young people watching my explanation on TV – they do not watch because they are not interested in Parliament – say: Leave us alone, we are safe, there is no problem, they want to put something in our legislation again. But this is really about security, and these people could, if they were to take the chips out, unlock this engine, have at least the helmets. I wish we were wearing helmets because it's not a joke. The speed of 50 kilometers per hour compared to 25 kilometers per hour is a big difference. As such, marriage does not bring anything that would be the primary reason why it should be rejected in order to say that — this and that in marriage is really bad and that is why we will reject it. And let us, for one time in this national assembly when we are talking, at least in such matters speak truly honestly and what is good in this case is indeed good and in the safety of drivers and other participants, not only in road traffic, but also in pedestrians. And every time you read in a newspaper this summer that a victim, a bicycle with a motorcycle, a pedestrian is injured and so on, you remember this treatment in this national assembly and the key you pressed. And then you can knock on your conscience if this marriage is rejected. Thank you so much for the introductions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u204	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Get Mr. Igor Zorčič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Congrats on today's election! Colleagues and colleagues, if he is a respected colleague of Dr. Franz Trček showed with emotion how disappointed he was about the position of the coalition and the government regarding this law, how disappointed I am only to be a cosigner of this bill. We didn't write it, dear colleagues, overnight, we wrote it for a few months. We had a few ten meetings with the police, with those who were injured. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about human lives. We're talking about human life, not animal life. It's about human life, that's what it's about. And such an arrogant government, this is indeed a school case of the government's arrogance when it describes some of its views on an opposition bill. Mr Secretary of State Klemen, on a personal level, I highly appreciate you. Please convey my statement to your Minister and Government in full. There are mistakes, there are mistakes, the government is talking about the Motor Vehicle Act, we're talking about wheels, ladies and gentlemen. The government doesn't even separate that. I'm so sorry to have to discuss this, I'm really sorry. The bike is something, the bike with the auxiliary engine is something else, the motor vehicle is something else. In order for the government to be so honest and coalition Members as to say – by 1 September or even better – we will solve this problem by the beginning of the tourist season. No, we'll save him sometime. I'm not even going to ask because I don't have the energy, where and when you have written in this government's normative programme to solve these problems. I love a coastal singer who can't sleep, great artist Mr. Slavko Ivančič. Read his story. My friend Rotovec spoke briefly about him. "If I wore a helmet, I'd avoid harm. I have done everything the law has imposed on me, but after I became a victim of a traffic accident myself, I see it quite differently," says Slavko Ivančič, a well-known coastal musician, who was last summer on a scooter, who did not exceed 25 kilometres per hour by an Italian driver. And it goes on to say, "Because I wasn't wearing helmets, the consequences were very severe, even though the fall was only 10 kilometers an hour." Two dead, multiple injured, but Slavko's not the only one still bearing the consequences of a car accident today. Last year alone, there were more than a hundred accidents in the Koper Police Administration area involving bikers and bicycle drivers with an auxiliary engine, including all single-way vehicles not exceeding 25 kilometres per hour. Fourteen individuals were more severely injured, over 70 easier, and two died. Have you read, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, police reports?Oh, my God! Most infringements relate to the processing of smaller scooters. "It is formally one-way vehicles which do not exceed 25 kilometres per hour, but with only a few minor interventions this speed can be greatly increased," says police inspector Leon Godejša of the cop police administration. We didn't come here with this marriage, dear colleagues, to waste our time here. We came here to save human lives. If we can only solve one thing, if we can solve one permanent injury, we've done a lot. And that kind of snitching, and then it's no wonder that, let's say – now I'm talking about this ministry – the second track I don't know which year of the Lord's built. When?Oh, my God! But if we cannot correct such trifling things that have a profound effect on human life. I appreciate our Commissioner, Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Violeto Bulc. On the website of the Modern Centre Party, I read the following statement: Safety on our roads is an absolute priority for me as the European Commissioner for Transport. The new Slovenia, the opposition party, is following our Commissioners. I don't know if she's still in the Modern Centre Party or not; I was even going to propose, but I don't intend to suggest that we check if maybe today, this moment in Slovenia, give her a word here and tell her what her opinion is about this law; if the government is already stating the wrong laws, what it will do and that it will solve the systemic matter. How, ladies and gentlemen, is human life dealt with in a systematic way?Oh, my God! That's amazing! And then it's no wonder we can't move anything in this country, nothing at all. Three articles of a law cannot be moved because the position of the coalition is such: to see who proposed the law, and to see – yes, New Slovenia, the opposition, to reject it, to cost what it wants. I'm saying the government, the government people, there's a big machine there, they haven't even read this law. If the Minister were here, I would like to ask the Minister: What are the legislative changes that our Government proposes to implement in detail under the Road Safety Programme 2011-2020? This is a road safety programme for the European Commission, which is our European Authority if you want. The economic damage caused by accidents is between EUR 100 and 130 billion each year. Thank God we've made some moves, some countries over, some less. In 2001, there were 54,000 deaths in Europe on roads. This trend is shrinking, thank God. Last year, 2015, on European roads, 26,000 people died. 26 thousand people dead, that's 160 times more than in a terrorist attack on Brussels and Paris. And I'm sorry, I'm sure this comparison isn't appropriate. Of these 26 thousand, about 6,000 dead on scooters and bicycles with auxiliary engines. Six thousand! You will say - the European problem. No, that's our problem, too. Is there anything we can do to make one less disabled? Is there anything we can do to make one less dead? What is our tool, ladies and gentlemen? Amendments to the legislation. There's no minister here, so there's probably no answer. I doubt that the Ministry of Infrastructure knows this road safety programme at all, because it would probably be implemented more quickly. Colleagues and colleagues, as I have said many times before, technology is actually speeding up regulation, speeding up legislation. Technology is a light wheel with an auxiliary engine with a cubatura, a volume of 50 cubic centimeters, which is not supposed to exceed a speed of more than 25 kilometers per hour. But of course, here we have masters, actually this engine in some way accelerates or provides it with greater power that it can do. This power allows speeds of up to 80 miles [80 km] per hour on a flat ground. And this isn't about a marriage hole, but it's about a cave in the law. And the wheels with the auxiliary engine remain the strong grey foxes of traffic safety. Juvies use their marriage benefits, which are legally equivalent to cyclists; however, by manipulating them, they allow high speeds, as I said, to be 80 kilometers per hour or even more. And I simply don't understand, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, who have made it clear that you will reject the law, except the Desus Group has a shared opinion, I simply don't understand the nature of the human being, so that he doesn't take the solutions that go in the direction of preventing fatalities and serious injuries. I just don't understand. We're colleagues, we're friends, but people have chosen us, not this government. Repeating, reading the opinion of the Government by a Member, this is not admissible for me, is not permissible; in order to present our position with at least some other words, I understand. And we're the legislator, that's what we need to understand here. We're the legislator, not the government. The government has to listen to us. I really don't understand and please, please, please, on behalf of the citizens, think before you vote down this law. I'm not saying it's ideal, let's put it in another reading and make it optimal there, even and especially with the help of a coalition. Please, it's human life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u206	The next panellist is Mr Igor Zorčič, to prepare Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u207	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Respectable proposer, I might have calmed the ball a little bit, there's no reason not to know what kind of disappointment. In your debate, you pointed out that if we support the coalition members somehow, we do not intend to support it. I think it has been made quite clear that we support this content and that the reason for the failure to support the proposal is that the law is not systematic. That's the forbidden word. What's systemic? The coalition is always operating on that term, and I may be trying to explain to you the problem that we see. I fully agree with your content that driving such motor vehicles is problematic. If you ask me, it's about the engines. On the website, I found an ad for a scooter where it says — available in two versions, the same picture, 45 kilometers per hour or 25 kilometers per hour. It is likely that there is a difference between withdrawing a chip or something; and suddenly it is in line with the law, according to one rule or another. It also says in the ad, in the collar – you don’t need an exam, not even a helmet, you don’t have to register it; then in the collar – we recommend the helmet. This proposal of yours is entirely in place, but the problem that the government has pointed to, and we have agreed with it, is that this cannot be resolved in the Road Traffic Rules Act. Maybe that formula about the helmet. I will also tell you why I also have doubts about that provision because this marriage proposal contains only three articles, the rest are transitional and final provisions; the rest is literally part of the Motor Vehicle Act. I don't know why you're so wondering why the Secretary of State mentioned the Motor Vehicle Act. Because there are definitions of motor vehicles, it says what a bike is. You're reminding me that it's a bike with a motorcycle, that it goes 80 kilometers an hour, because it's not just a bike. As a result, the definition of this scooter, which goes 25 kilometers per hour, should be placed in the Motor Vehicle Act. And we don't have this law open today. I'd back it up if we had it open, but we don't. Personally, I believe that none of the coalition Members have any part in rejecting your proposal just because it is from New Slovenia, we have none of it. Since the Ministry is predicting a change of law, we will have more to do with this because we will deal with it today, and then again the law proposed by the Ministry. If I understood the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure, it would be a change to the Motor Vehicle Act. I believe that this law will be somehow very short and it will be determined that such a scooter that goes 25 kilometers an hour is a bicycle with a motor; it is called a moped for which you already need registration today. And with this we have half the problem solved; which is not solved by your proposal. It's also about the helmet. You propose in law to determine the obligation of helmet. A rider and a passenger on a moped, light four-wheel, motorbike, motorcycle with auxiliary engine, tricycle, four-wheel without a closed cab shall wear an appropriate approved protective motor helmet while driving. The problem with your marriage proposal is that you don't define anywhere what a bike is with an auxiliary engine. I can tell you that you're going to a store where they sell fruit and vegetables, and you can see the grilled charcoal, and you can see the bike they're selling. And that's the bike with the auxiliary engine. This looks like a regular bike, a bicycle, as it were, has an auxiliary engine, and according to this definition of the law, you should ride a bicycle on such a bike with a motorcycle helmet. I think it would look funny. I don't even know if I could pull the engine or this bike. What I'm trying to say is that this text of your first article should be amended. [[advertising from the hall]] Amendment, here. True, it could be an amendment, a first reading and so on. As far as registration is concerned, you're saying it would be just some kind of identification. The registration of the vehicle is also his identification, you get a license plate, you sign into a special register and the insurance is concluded. At the end of the day, the registration comes. To say that there is no cost; I believe that this will be a cost even after what the ministry proposes. It would be hard to predict that there would be no cost. I don't know how many of these services the state does for free. As for this amendment or helmet, as you said; if the ministry defines what is a bike with an auxiliary engine, and this will not be an ordinary bicycle with an electric motor, if it defines and lifts or classifies as a moped, this helmet problem will be solved because a moped must also have a helmet. And in that we see a solution. The proposal made by the Ministry will follow exactly these wishes of yours to change this matter. However, we believe that it is more comprehensive or systemic if this is done in the Motor Vehicle Act, where all definitions of motor vehicles are already in place; rather than leaving this in this law where there are no such definitions. You also did not define in this proposal what this bike is with the auxiliary engine. You wrote what's a condition. We don't even know what it is today. What is a bike, what is a moped, what is a motorcycle – this is all defined in the Motor Vehicle Act. As far as the bike with the auxiliary engine is concerned, there is no definition. And if we say, "Let's make this right with the amendment," it doesn't fit in this law. It fits the Motor Vehicle Act. That's the only reason. Not that we don't want to, because this is the law of New Slovenia; it doesn't. That's the only reason. We believe that this material belongs primarily to the Motor Vehicle Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u208	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Perhaps it would be easier if it were not for a request or a proposal for a first hearing and we were on the committee and also have before us an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, where we could clear up some of the issues that are emerging today in this debate. I think I hope to make a grave assessment that the proposaler himself has not fully touched all the solutions that would have been necessary in order to have fewer dilemmas about whether the text of the law is prepared in a truly optimal way today. At the same time, I would also like to ask the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the person responsible for this area whether this law will not conclude its proceedings in the National Assembly; when can we expect a specific definition of a bicycle with an auxiliary engine, when can we expect solutions that will talk about what year it is necessary to have a helmet; and in particular a bicycle with an auxiliary engine. I think it would make today's debate much easier. The article, which is opened by the Road Traffic Rules Act, speaks of a protective helmet, so that at least one part of it is possible to be resolved by this law as well; and a little more difficult is probably all the content written down in this bill. However, one very clear answer is when we can expect to have in law the definition of a bicycle with an auxiliary engine and what will be the rule on wearing helmets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u210	Representative of the proposer, Mr Vrtovec, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u211	Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Once the debate has developed a little bit, I would like to respond to the last speaker. In fact, today citizens have the opportunity to see that good proposals in this House are not supported solely by political prestige. Or if we use a different word, just because I apologize, despite the opportunity soon to celebrate the 25th anniversary, when we could show unity, unfortunately for ideology, ideological issues in topics that have no connection. But what is crucial in this is that, if this minor topic, but at the same time very important, we share that the coalition, for example in this case, does not support the New Slovenia proposal, then it is very difficult for us to imagine the opposition's participation with the coalition and vice versa in the much more difficult things that will still be, as in each mandate, and when some unity is needed. I look forward to some reforms that the opposition could also be pleased to support, but in this way it is really difficult to cooperate when we are so ideologically interfering and unprofessionally. Not on my nerves, but I can't take the wrong arguments, like there's no definition. It's a definition. Our law uses a definition. Mr Weber also asked the Minister of State by definition. The third article of our law, the already existing article, the meaning of the terms, the bicycle is a one-way or two - way vehicle driven by a driver with his own power — from here on — or with the help of an auxiliary engine with which he can reach a speed of not more than 25 kilometers per hour. That's the definition of what a bike with an auxiliary engine is. Now the Minister has arrived at the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you, Minister. When's the marriage on the table? When's the marriage on the table? Don't talk, it'll be the end of the year, it'll be the same as they say – let's let this summer pass. But I said, but we're in a hurry, we're in a hurry to get the law under the roof by summer to increase safety, because the most accidents happen in the summer months, both on the pedestrian side and on the bike drivers themselves with the auxiliary engine. That's why we're talking about summer. By the end of the year, it may be too late for a lot of human life. If the law is already ready, then fine; but sometimes it is wise in this national assembly not to look at its own principles, to take two steps back so that we can then make one together, I say together, forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u212	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. He should be followed by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I don't understand. What the applicant has now said, what is in the Road Traffic Rules Act, is defined by the auxiliary engine bike, and of course this is not in the Motor Vehicle Act because the lowest category is up to 4 kilowatts, the maximum speed up to 45 kilometres per hour and the engine power or engine capacity up to 50 cm3. And the amendment of this law has nothing to do with the Motor Vehicle Act, because this is a defined bike with an auxiliary engine. This law defines a bicycle with an auxiliary engine at a maximum speed of up to 25 kilometres per hour in Article 3. If we were just looking at the Motor Vehicle Act, it wouldn't be like that. And I know there's bikes on the road with an auxiliary motor or small scooters with a mark 25. And those who drive don't need helmets. This would not then be the case if it were to be in the Motor Vehicle Act; however, it is not in the Motor Vehicle Act. But if you want to put in the Motor Vehicle Act this category and then the technical inspection and the classic registration, because it's also a moped or a bike with a motorcycle, it's not a bike with an auxiliary engine, it's a bike with an engine, it's something else. Then it is not a systemic solution, but it is a major complication, a reflection of registrations and all that and records that are not available in other countries. We're going to have some weirdos again, and it's going to be a systemic solution. What the applicant proposes is a solution to increase road safety, to avoid all these traffic accidents. There's a lot of accidents where it's just material damage, and then it's covered by the car driver himself on his shelf or he's paying for the damage because this bike with the auxiliary engine doesn't have an insurance policy to go to. But we do know that these accidents are not so small. And if there is a systemic solution, it should be in due course. If the government doesn't have a program within this law in due course, I don't know when it will be. I would like to mention another solution that should have been adopted long ago, that's sorting out on the highway. Here we have the 2013 articles, which were then renewed in 2015; and we have already discussed this. I have sent e-mails to the members of the Infrastructure Committee meeting of computers on the classification of our motorways and the classification of motorways in neighbouring countries, as well as an article published in 2013 and renewed in 2015, to the Ministry of Justice regarding the harmonisation of this legislation. We also had a video of a logistic fireman running in front of a fireman and sending all the trucks to the fire escape lane to get past. Instead of one minute, the fire vehicle took seven minutes to arrive at the scene of the accident. Every minute means how much more of a chance to survive the unfortunate?Oh, my God! We've all known about this for three years, and we haven't done anything. When will we systematically resolve this so that we will have the same as they have in neighbouring countries? I lost a video somewhere in Germany of all the trucks withdraw to the runway in case of an accident; there can be, in Austria can and must be empty with us. For whom; should they make room in the middle for intervention vehicles?Oh, my God! Maybe it's a policy to go to work or to a meeting with a blue light on the runway, like we've had a chance to see it on our roads. Why is the penalty belt empty, for whom? In theory, it's not even possible for a police vehicle to come between two trucks. We know how fast the trucks are moving along on our roads and how long it takes for them to get ahead of each other. And if there's a car accident at that time and both trucks have to sort out one on the left side of the emergency belt, the other on the right side of the lane; there's no room in the middle, not for a police vehicle, not just for a fire vehicle. Theoretically, but that's in our marriage. And when the police and the fire department turned to the Ministry, the Ministry sent them to Dars. It's in the article. And Darss said it was written in the law, and we don't accept the law. It's accepted by the Ministry. Neither does the Ministry accept it; we accept it, in the National Assembly. And we haven't been able to fix it in three years. That then our firefighter runs in front of a fire truck and puts our trucks on the runway because otherwise he can't get through; and he sends them to 200 euros in fines. 200 euros is a penalty if it takes to the runway; 300 euros if it drives through the retirement zone. And then our trucks, who think that those rules are in Germany, make a stop. There was a video when all the foreign trucks retreated onto the runway, they ran into a truck that was on the edge of the lane. And you will not believe – Slovenian license plate. But how many punishments did he get for not withdrawing because of his adherence to our laws on German roads?Oh, my God! We need three years. No one can see. Then how long will it take to resolve the system?Oh, my God! And it's not enough to warn here, nobody wants to see and everyone says it's right. Solve this systemic matter, just like this. It is not true to be saved in the Motor Vehicle Act; everything is in this law only if it is desired. And if this law is brought down to another, it is possible to correct it with amendments. I would advise that during this time the ministry or officials see how they have this solution abroad, that we will not have any problems when foreigners come by bicycles with auxiliary engines to visit us on vacation and pay some fines because they will comply with their rules. The excuses for a system-wide solution of such simple solutions are enough. I would not say that if, by this summer, the government's normative work programme had systematic legislation to save; it is not. So let us correct what is logical, according to the common sense of agriculture. You won't be offended if the opposition suggests something clever.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u214	Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a procedural proposal, I would have the following. I'm glad that Mr. Minister Gasperšič has joined us. Mr President, I would like to have before us, in the debate below, an accurate timetable for the adoption of legislation, as foreseen by the Government. The Minister can say this here, which will be subject to further discussion. Initially, the government said that by the end of the year, if I heard correctly, the matter would be resolved. But, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 January this year we received the Government of Slovenia's Standard Work Programme for 2016. Rules under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. And the same for 2017. And we're talking, you're saying, the chairman of the committee responsible is talking about the Motor Vehicle Act being amended by the end of this year. I can't find it here for 2016 now; I will find it for 2017 and it is supposed to be the deadline for adoption 20. Seven. 2017. And I would really like to ask that we are informed of this moment, what will be the timetable for adopting this system-wide legislation to address this problem that Nova Slovenije has put on the table; and this by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u216	Yes, it was procedural for me; in fact, it was for the Minister. When the Minister is ready, he can have his word. Continue the discussion and then we can expect your answer? Okay. So it will be in due time to coordinate. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mrs Marinka Levičar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. I admit I'm getting smaller and smaller. Now I'm going to read something we had in our opinion. It is true that even smaller amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act, the Drivers Act and the Motor Vehicle Act should be adopted after the amendment; however, this is not the reason why we should not take the first step by adopting the novelty that we are considering today. I'm the vice president of my mother's working body, and I was in hospital. What Mr. Zorčič said, I appreciate all of you here. We are what we are, everyone has mistakes, everyone could be better. I don't want this to sound personal, but what Comrade Zorčič said should have happened on the committee. If I touch systemicity, there may also be some little amendment to one article. What do they tell you first when you get into politics? Every single comma is important. How did this happen? Why don't we have to control our daughter's energy companies? Because it got lost somewhere, five words got lost. I'm going to be non-academic – "don't bullshit me"; every student of mine will find a program that will compare two versions of the law, so please don't sell me pumpkins about systemicity. Now I'm gonna brag a little more. – Rethinking evRyday mobility, edited by Franc Trček and Drago Kos. Mr Josko is talking about our Commissioner, she has this on the table. It was the far largest Civitas project, 30 million, I was the scientific coordinator. We have no idea what kind of politics is, but that does not mean that we cannot learn; each of us knows something small about a matter. Just like I fell into politics, because Bogovich preferred to stay where he stayed; I fell into this a dozen years or more ago. And since I don't like bluffing, I've learned a lot about it. But I know a little bit or maybe most of all the 90 that we're sitting here, about the changes in mobility habits today, the dots. And the amendment proposed by Nova Slovenija, regardless of how extreme we are after an ideological intersection, is just something normal and self-sufficient, as I said before. Society's changing, we're changing with it, and this novelty wants to ensure two. He wants to provide security and also some compensation insurance. I was talking to someone in the hallway, and I'm not going to mention anyone, and this person told me if any of you have ever watched or ever been, worked in health care, I still have nightmares about it today; I'm done quoting. And I don't want to go into some over-pathetic thing, and I don't want to go into some kind of legal-formal empty play right now. Who will define one more, the other more. I'm not that crazy about motorcycles. In fact, it is a relatively simple issue, which, as a school case, I will say once again, I will have to improve, resolve on the home labour body, where the Ministry representatives will come. Let's stop bluffing, these two gentlemen probably aren't much more professional, I don't want to be insulting, just those bikes of yours. And now we pull out the minister and he won't know, now we're going to beat him up, it'd be a first-hand statement. He came here because, unlike some other ministers, we still have to give him some commendation. Milan, don't look at me like that. But this should happen on the parent's working body, where someone would come from a ministry that can do that, where lawyers would tell their own, where the content would tell their own, and they would do a novelization with tail and head, instead of being like little kids playing around here. If the opposition is not able to put some of the major system laws into a slightly defective parliamentary democracy – usually almost nowhere – into the procedure or not, these are cases, because you, because of the great systemic tasks you have ahead of you, do not have time to deal with anything so small, but it is important that we come face-to-face with such matters and deal with them. This is what every normal Parliament does and this Parliament is not normal. Everyone here, who you've created for a quarter of a century, is guilty of it. Now it's my fault, too. Of course I am. And actually that's what this is all about; I'm not going to go into the engines up and down now. There was a proposal that did not detect hot water, a Member said that we always do not need to be something special in Slovenia; and we could arrange it on the committee. Now we probably won't, it'll be outvoted; it'll be systemic when it is. That's the kind of thing that a whole lot of people do. Today we have tabled a law that changes only one article, and it seems to us to be very important. If you reject it, there will be a potential of 2 000 people on duty, but it will be 200, 300 very quickly; you will say again that it is not systemic. Let's start working seriously in this byte. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u218	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u219	Dear Mr. Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues! Members of Parliament are elected to resolve the problems of citizens. And our citizens have alerted us to this problem that we have with our bikes. When I performed various functions myself or still perform them, I always focused on the unresolved problems. But if someone offered me a solution, I was just grateful that he helped me; and I was able to focus on other problems, other essential solutions. And the stupidest thing I can think of is seeing someone come into a new position and then knock down everything his predecessor did instead of solving those problems that are still unresolved. And I'm having a similar experience here. We have detected the problem, we have delved into this problem, and we have also found appropriate, appropriate, uncomplicated solutions for it. It's the safety of people, children, adolescents, bikers, pedestrians, older people, all of us. Although I was not a fan of motorcycles and motorcycles, I often felt threatened by these very vehicles because they were driven by very young people, children, adolescents. We know what it's like to be young to jump across the river where the bridge is. Especially when I had young children or went with a wheelchair, I felt threatened. Even now, if I am not careful in Ljubljana and cross the cycling track, I am to blame, but we must be careful. Not unless someone's going wild with too much speed and a space that's designed for bikers or even on foot. And every accident is too much if it's life-threatening, if it's caused a permanent injury. And in this case, when the bike is not marked when it is not registered, when the identification of the person, the bicycles are not possible, of course they count even more – because no one can catch me, because no one can report me, because there is no record of who I am on this bike. And that's another problem. I also have a memory of my longtime work at the Institute for the Training of Disabled Youth, where I met many young people on a wheelchair, such as paraplegics, tetraplegics, because they were involved in various traffic accidents. In a moment, the life of such a person changes in a second, for we all know it; but that man must bear the consequences of his whole life, as well as of his parents or all those who live with him. In a moment, all life's dreams change. A child, a 12 - year - old child, does not actually see the danger that adults see, so sometimes wild, is careless. Even with two bicycles, with three wheels, they feed, hunt, and do many other things, without helmets, but the consequences can be very tragic. That is why I once again appeal to all of you, but we all want to have a different policy in this country, that we are not satisfied with this policy and our citizens. For once, let us show that we can all be constructive together. Even in New Slovenia, we do not reject all the proposals proposed by the government in the opposition party. No, no, no. We vote if we think that something is smart, good, right; we support or we amendment because it is pointless to reject everything that is absolutely necessary and what is good. We stick to that principle. I don't understand why we always listen to these excuses about a systemic solution, the government will prepare this, better and otherwise; but we don't know when. Well, if our proposal does not receive support, we have at least triggered that it will start to think about it more intensively or work on it. At the same time, I am disappointed that we have a few hours of debate today and that we could find an appropriate better solution, and we have not all worked together; but we could find, because we still have much more work to do. I believe the Minister had to deal with important issues, not just the other track, but a lot of others; and this is only a small contribution to making it easier for you or your employees at the Ministry to deal with other problems. Let's think about it again. Summer's ahead. We know that in the spring, during the summer, accidents on the road turn up for those most vulnerable groups of people, namely pedestrians, motorists, bikers. And these drivers also belong to this vulnerable group of people. Once again, I appeal to all of you, and let's reconsider the marriage after the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u220	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister with a co-worker; distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good evening! It seems to me that this bill is very important to ensure greater safety in transport, particularly in order to ensure greater safety for our children, who are the most vulnerable group of road users. That is how I think all four major solutions proposed by Nova Slovenije are important, this is an increase in the age from 12 to 14. I think it is true that this age at age 12 is too low for children to ride motorcycles like this, for even 25 kilometers an hour is a great speed. Not to mention helmets, I think that helmets should be worn by all participants, including older ones, not only by 18 years old, as proposed by New Slovenia in this bill. Then the identification plates that are supposed to be on these motor vehicles seem very important to me here, too, from this point of view, that there is a greater liability for compensation, that the EUR 30 per year should be paid as it should be, and that we are insured, especially the parents, that we do not have additional burdens, costs and judicial proceedings, and that I do not know what else may be the result of such an accident caused by a child or a minor with an auxiliary engine. Everything you're proposing seems important to me to be accepted. Also, to speed up the adoption of this law, because the summer is really coming, when more participants, more children on bicycles, here are holidays, here they travel and there they are. That I do not owe, I will support this proposal for a law proposed by New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u222	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u223	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about amendments to the Road Traffic Act, I have to look at the proposaler and I think this law is very important, very important for road safety. It is, however, a fact that I am concerned about today's debate in this national assembly when I speak again about those two words. I even propose that we sign off on a prize that has been entered by this national assembly and this government to the word of a systemic solution. We listen to this every day, every marriage, and I firmly believe that this government will be known in history after the fact that the government has been with systemic solutions. Dear Secretary of State, with all due respect to you, I don't know where you get your mandate to call on Members of Parliament and Members to not vote in favour of amending the law. I don't think this is your mission. Your mission is certainly to make good laws with your professional services; but those laws that are drawn up in the parliamentary groups, if necessary, you propose and help these laws, which go in the best interests of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, also complement them. Don't let the Secretary of State blame me. When I listened to the debate of Members and Members of the Coalition, in the Group of Social Democrats, they gave the deadline for a systemic solution to be by the end of May, in the Desus Group, they have alternate opinions, and they will even support one. However, I think that at this point in this law we could give the floor a systemic solution, support this law in the first reading and complete it during the first reading, add some further improvements when the summer season begins, so that this law will be in force. We're not doing anything special. We intervene, we change, we move the age. The suggestion is that we still have some helmets on our heads, that these vehicles will be identified by road traffic, and that those who use these vehicles will be safe — bicycles with auxiliary engines. And that those with these vehicles will be safe. Members and Members, the esteemed Secretary of State, the distinguished Minister, once again, I call once again for us to give the word of a systemic solution away because these systemic solutions lead the country to failure; and we support this change in the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u224	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Our responsibility, the responsibility of us Members of the National Assembly, is to regulate legislation in this area in the field of bicycle problems with the auxiliary engine. I must say, I was surprised when I started reading this Amendment and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act, submitted by Nova Slovenija, when I found that we have a complete white fox in this area in our legislation concerning transport infrastructure or road traffic regulations. That is why I believe that we must settle this issue as soon as possible and ensure that traffic in this area is also safer, as these auxiliary bikes are used mainly for young people, children from 12 years forward, even without helmets; and this is very dangerous. It is also dangerous because they cannot drive as responsibly as we ride bicycles of older people, and that is why, even here today, many of the victims are also children, including older people. The consequences may also be severe. Since the bicycle is not insured, the injured person or the injured person has no chance of getting any insurance. The child is also not responsible for his actions, and there are major problems. Above all, it is also problematic that this bike is secured with some chip that these children can remove; and then we are no longer at 25 kilometers an hour, but — we have heard today — this bike with an auxiliary engine can reach 80 or even 90 kilometers an hour. This is already a speed that is very dangerous for the driver and for all the other participants who can appear near him. The problem of bicycles with an auxiliary engine to be regulated relates to, we have found, to the provisions of three laws, so this law, which New Slovenia proposes, cannot be supported in such a text because it only applies to the Road Traffic Rules Act. I would like to point out that this issue concerns three laws, namely the Motor Vehicle Act, the Drivers Act and the Road Traffic Rules Act. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have also heard the Secretary of State say that the Ministry has prepared or is in the process of preparing changes to the law and that the first amendment is to be made to the table this month. I believe that this will be the right solution to settle this area in all these three laws, where individual matters belong. As I have already said in my position, we will not all Members support this proposal, nor will all members of Desus reject the New Slovenia proposal. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u226	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mr. Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! First, let me say that I will support this amendment of the law, which is proposed by New Slovenia. Regardless of who would propose it, I would absolutely support such minor corrections in the direction of improving traffic safety. Some debates make me feel a little sad not to say anything worse. And those systemic excuses have become quite a constant. If you will remember, at the beginning of this term, there was some other mantra on your part that you refused because some of the laws were either by colleagues or by themselves investing in an emergency procedure. And then it was a mantra and an excuse not to make laws by emergency procedure, so we reject all these, including well-intentioned additions. Probably in New Slovenia, if you believed that you were reasonable to some extent, as far as such corrections are concerned, which go well with the citizen, you would be acceptable, including these minor corrections, which do not really need any great legal basis and interpretation by ten experts and ministries, to be tabled on an urgent basis. However, they expected you to be more, as you would say, kinder to the fact that things in Slovenia, however, in areas where this makes sense, are being corrected. This is probably easier to accept if they submit this under normal procedure to do the first reading, where you say that, as usual, you agree with the content, with everything, and that in the second stage, in the second reading, as colleagues from the Modern Centre Party have said, we are also starting to deal with adjustments in terms of a better solution to each proposal and that, through the amendment on the parental committee, there are also better solutions. You're talking about how the laws are connected, but if you take a good look, it's very easy in the Road Traffic Rules Act to complete Article 3, where we add a bike with an auxiliary engine. In addition, Article 3 of the 13th indent already defines that the wheel is a single or double-track vehicle with at least two wheels driven by the driver or by an auxiliary engine with a maximum speed of 25 kilometres per hour. However, in order to be more consistent, as you can see, a new indent would be added to talk about a bicycle with an auxiliary engine; and to prepare the same definition, no problem. This could be completed in a second reading without a problem. However, no; since it is necessary to take a systematic approach, there is a move at the Ministry. And given the assurances made by my colleagues from Desus, we will consider this before the holidays. Mr. Minister, you have to hurry, even if you put this matter in a regular procedure. I think he needs to come to our tables next month. As I said, I will absolutely support this law, because I really don't need any more serious professional justification from traffic experts and lawyers to explain to me what it means if someone has to wear a helmet at some point, if one of the boundaries moves from 12 to 14 years. I also understand this, if the insurance is arranged, it is better for the user and for another participant in the accident. And one would really expect that after two years of work in this National Assembly, you, too, will start to work a little bit harder, and we will also process the law together, because it benefits users and all the citizens who show up in road transport, especially in more urban centres, where this traffic is even more important. Not to mention the Coast, where during the summer months the problem of these bicycles with the auxiliary engine is particularly great. It's hard to convince someone who's decided to be systemic in the first place; but we've seen in the second case, in the case of Lipice, it's a very non-systemic solution, and no one's really worried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u228	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you very much. If I look around the hall, I see four people sitting here ten years ago. Mr Horvat, Mrs Novakova, and our two Members – Mr Lah and Mr Krivic. Why did I start like that? For the next reason. Maybe the introduction to my performance won't be tied to the point, but it's still tied to the point. About ten years ago, I met for the first time with Mr. Pahor, then Mrs. Kresalova and Golobic in that office over there, from the government office on the right. What was my job? What were we doing? These gentlemen have laid down the laws of the annual plan, of ours, of the government at the time, in which they will participate in the preparation. However, around 70-75% of all laws in the annual government plan were established. And my mission and the task of our then ministers was to bring these tasks in line with these three parliamentary groups: LDS, SD and Really. This was my mission and the task of our ministers. This was therefore called the government's cooperation with the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, if you take the criteria, which is called how many times these three political parties have supported government proposals, we will reach 66% in different ways each year. Can you imagine? We have therefore aligned 66% of the laws adopted in this National Assembly with the votes of the then opposition, and we have aligned them with them. And many times our ministers had to step back because otherwise such a marriage did not come to the government's meeting. He didn't come to the government meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, the question for you: Are you capable of such a thing? My answer is, you're not capable of this. If we were able to do at least 10% of this, it would be very useful. During that term, something like this has never happened. That marriage is good, what you all say. No one said that marriage was bad and that marriage would not go to another treatment. It didn't happen because the then coalition, Janša's coalition wouldn't allow it. You invented a new term – a systemic approach and a systemic solution. Let's do this goodbye and say it in such a way that simple people understand it. Say this: The law which you have written is good; but we will not support it because you have written it. That's it. Mr Zorčič always inspires me, when he begins to speak, I am very attentive; but there are some such Members, because he gives me an immeasurable, how can I say, idea, an immeasurable number of ideas. Those who listen to him well must find that he speaks nonsense so as not to offend. What he was saying today: "supporting content"; that is, the content of the law you wrote in New Slovenia is good. The law isn't systematic. This would be translated — written by the wrong party. Who said that? "I agree with the content of this law"; 25 and 45 kilometers; an ad in the newspaper read there. So, Nova Slovenija, your marriage is good. He'll even find a practical case that could be solved with that ad, with that moped. "But there is no definition of what a bike is. And since there's no definition, I can't support it." Then the Gardener reads his definition, and he starts like this and goes out. This is a responsible relationship between the coalition and the opposition, which is indeed responsible. And this is simply because you think of yourself as Übermensch – the smartest, the most beautiful, or how you think, and the smartest, as I said. And whatever comes from the opposition is not supported. He doesn't support himself. It's just a rule. I remember in the period I spoke about earlier, one of the government meetings where I participated as Secretary of State in charge of this particular area. If I say a little in the slogans - for the "godship" of the opposition it would be referred to, it was somehow my job to establish a normal communication with the opposition at the time. And I remember one of the questions sent and one of the obvious. I think it was said by Mr Pahor, and I think it was he who then told the government that he must listen to the opposition more. He cited two cases where we did not support some amendments — not laws — of amendments; however, the opposition amendments were good in his opinion. Then we had about 10 minutes of mass at the government, because the then President of the Government told the then ministers very clearly, loudly and harshly that the content and not the proposer should be viewed. That it is necessary to look at the content and not at the proposer. And there is a need for good content, regardless of whose amendments it is that they must be supported; it is in laws, and it is in laws. Give some self-reflection; at least for those who think the same way as Mrs Levicharova started. Just as she has thought, although many times I do not agree with your discussions, it does not matter; but you must have your brains. It doesn't say anything if you come to a political party; the president spoke in some kind of compulsion this morning. [[…]] I'm not under any pressure, don't look at me so badly, because I'm not going to do anything to you. I'm not under any duress here, she forced what you're doing, who's brainwashed you now, to claim that the law is good; but you won't support it. And what you also said was that this was supposed to be in another marriage. Yeah, well, you can open it tomorrow and July if that's true. That doesn't have to be opened at all, because Mr. Wrotec said he didn't have to. You're under some kind of compulsion where you are because someone orders you and you have to do it. That's a problem. Try to get rid of yourself, let's get free. You need freedom, ladies and gentlemen. You don't need any command, so who can force you? It is true who can compel you today; give support to something good. Let's get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u230	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you for your word. I still have time for the replica this time. Comrade Gorenak, you have commented on the debate so far in your style. I don't know if you listened to her or not; I think you're making her worse. At least I suggest you refrain from saying things like that. We are Members of the National Assembly here, each of us tells us his or her position, whether you like it or not. I have said well that we agree with the content of the law, not that this content is in this law. But you didn't listen to why. Because the definition of an auxiliary motor vehicle or bicycle does not fit in this law, you did not listen. Where are you going? It fits the Motor Vehicle Act. You said there was a definition in the Road Traffic Rules Act. No, it's not that definition. Look at Article 3, you have a definition of what a bike is; you have no definition of what a bike is with an auxiliary engine. When you find her, come to me and show her to me. The problem is, obviously, you haven't read these laws. Now you can convince anyone, but the problem is that you don't have to adopt the law if it's still flawed and if it's related to other laws. If we had all these laws open, we had no problem, we were all amending them; but we only had one law open, and it was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u232	Mr Jernej Vrtovec, representative of the proposed law, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u233	If I have correctly understood the whole of the present debate, the arguments for rejecting the law by the work of the ruling coalition are as follows. The law is not systematic; the problem is that there is no definition of what a bicycle is with an engine – and I will now argue that this definition is in this law – and that you will put the law into the Motor Vehicle Act or that three laws will be regulated. Now let's go nice and slow. The law is not systemic. The word link of a systemic solution has somehow become the phrase, slang used by Members, most of the ruling coalitions in this 25-year-old parliamentary democracy, when the opposition prepares a proposal; and it is not accepted and it is said that this law is not systematic. But tell me, what is so systemic when it comes to the four solutions you support? What's so systemic about this whole story? And if they were literally in place, they would let this law go forward and only include in the law two solutions that you think are necessary. Part two, the problem is there's no definition. And I'm going on to the Road Traffic Rules Act, read all of you, including the viewers on TV screens. Article 3, the meaning of the terms: the bicycle is a one-way or two-way vehicle driven by the driver with its own power – Mr Zorčič, but now be careful – or by an auxiliary engine. The auxiliary engine! If you drive it with your own power, it's a bike; if we have an auxiliary engine, it's a bike with a motorcycle. Do we understand now? Now he's laughing at me. Or by means of an auxiliary engine with which it can reach a speed of not more than 25 kilometres per hour. You're lawyers. I think you understand that. With respect to other laws, and nice and easy, the Motor Vehicle Act, that's what you'd change. See section 3 of the Motor Vehicle Act, which states: A motor vehicle is a vehicle designed for road traffic with the power of its own engine, except for rolling vehicles and wheels with auxiliary engine. And further to the conclusion of this article, it states that this law does not define bicycles with auxiliary engines. And you'd be involved in this bike marriage with an auxiliary engine. Okay. This law does not define this work at all, which we are dealing with today. The Drivers Act would have changed that, too. The third of the laws you spoke of. All right, let's see what it says. The article that talks about age limitation would therefore go from 12 to 14, and you, too, agree. But this article was eliminated by us because we simply moved the age limit from the Drivers Act to the existing new law on bicycles with auxiliary engines. And here's the whole solution. Even if there's no definition, it's not true. Also, we're going to change some law that basically says that it doesn't define a bicycle with an auxiliary engine, it's not true. I don't know, someone should say what the argument is that the coalition will reject this law, a well-intentioned law of the opposition. And you know what, I'm really sorry that I'm trying here and I'm convincing the mothers here, because this law didn't grow on my lawn, not even on the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors; but people came who were once involved in traffic accidents or other participants, especially from the coasts, maritime MPs. They also face problems because I know the mayors have communicated with them, including your SMC clients. From there came solutions and also various round tables were, including the police on these round tables agreeing with these solutions. Then it's really hard to talk, because we're actually rejecting something just because it came from one part of the hall. I'm going to be different for laws that are really useful, and we're going to propose them, and I'm going to sit with you for support; I'm going to transfer this badge, look, if the law is adopted. No problem, because I think we really need to work primarily for the good of people and, in this case, for their safety. And once again, when you press the button, because the government won't make the law by summer, or some miracle will happen, but in the summer months, every victim who will make the damage, think of this law, which you rejected today exclusively from this prestige, ideological opposition. Will we say once in this country that we support good things, we reject bad things. Let's say it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u234	Replica, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thanks again for saying that. Comrade Swirl, I have a feeling that you're a little confused right now. You're talking about a bike, something about a bike with an auxiliary engine, something about a motorcycle. These are completely different concepts. Read the magnetogram of what you were saying. The Road Traffic Rules Act does not define the definition of a bicycle with an auxiliary engine. He doesn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u236	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u237	Look at the words in Article 3, paragraph 13. A bike. What's a bike? Look, read to yourself and maybe some other lawyer, obviously you don't trust me, but talk to me for a minute. While a motorcycle and a bicycle with a motorcycle or moped, these are defined in the Motor Vehicle Act, which, as I said, is unfortunately not being dealt with today. This is not the case; this is not because New Slovenia has proposed it. But if there is a relatively high consensus in this Chamber that this legislation should change, then I ask you why you didn't come before the bill was put into the coalition's parliamentary group and say - we would change it, maybe everyone would sign it. You have filed this law and requested general treatment. We haven't even had that in a working-body session. It's up to you to be constructive if you tell us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u238	Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you, President. This ping-pong here is funny. I procedurally suggest that you bring one board and one chalk into the hall to Mr. Zorčič to draw what is a bike, what is a bike with an auxiliary engine, what is a bike with an engine; then he will tell you if he agrees with these definitions, and the donkey will draw his version with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u240	There's no need to insult my colleague Zorčič or me or anyone else. In view of this debate, which I have been monitoring, it is a matter of different definitions which are supposed to be in different laws. I somehow managed to understand that; in your opinion, no, in his view. But this is a debate. It is not appropriate to abuse the procedural proposal in order to further enhance this disagreement, which is ridiculous or ridiculous. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u241	Once again, I find it very difficult [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u242	Can you please stop mocking others because this is not appropriate! But I know you're out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u243	Colleagues and colleagues, it's hard to talk like this because you already know what things are going to be like. In Novi Slovenije we have invested seven laws in the parliamentary procedure and for all seven, I think we went to the Modern Centre Party and asked for support. I think that this is every time New Slovenia tables a proposal for amendments to the law, a new law, a new law. Whatever. And even in this case, I think we knocked on the door to be ready to talk. I'll say it again, because we've also passed the Banking Act. And what happened? After we passed the Banking Act, the government passed its Banking Act. And we're going to read it and then you see that copy-paste is the text of New Slovenia. And then the Government, on the proposal of the New Slovenia Act, rejects the opinion that it will not support this law. Go read it. Then one wonders, first of all, is the theft of intellectual property, you might say. Okay, that doesn't apply to legislation; but in the second line, in this case, it's confusion. And now I'm going to trust a famous lawyer who said he was asked to run. A well-known lawyer. He said, "No, no, I'm a lawyer. I'm not going to be a member of the National Assembly. And I don't want to be sorry. I'm formerly, I think, by Mr. Zorčič, I'm offended. I will read again because this interpretation seems to be controversial; but for an easier understanding. The wheel, I agree, is a one-way or two-way vehicle with at least two wheels driven by the driver with his own power or by an auxiliary engine. What is this bike that has the help of an auxiliary engine? Tell me, what can this be? A bike with an auxiliary engine. I'm really trying to be honest with everyone. I don't know how to put it as far as possible, that it's a good thing and that you're here in error if you don't support it. I don't know. But okay; I understand the coalition's plan that what is on the part of the opposition will be rejected; let the Joint Left go with the proposals of laws, or New Slovenia, or the Slovenian Democratic Party. Okay; but tell this to the citizens once, because there will be even more difficult issues on the agenda, they could come when this national assembly can show unity; only because of ideological or prestigious differences can we not show – whether it is a bicycle or a bicycle with an auxiliary engine that you want. But you make trouble where you don't have to, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u244	Gradually, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u245	Mr President, this is where some of the obviouss are coming, I will say, very malicious. I do not know whether the proposer and several colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party simply do not accept this argument, which is more than justified, or whether there are other reasons. But I can't agree there's something here that's insulting. Comrade Wrotetz, will you explain why you decided to run for office? Was that to get you a pay grade? I don't think that's the topic of whether it's a variety of brainstorming of colleagues who might have come to the National Assembly with a bicycle with auxiliary wheels. I suggest you limit such a debate to a personal level. Let the colleagues tell you where this definition is, because they have not yet said so and then let them discuss it on this basis. But if we go to some personal level, we can go. I suggest you limit that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u246	Procedurally, Mr Jernej Vrtovac, representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u247	I'm willing to take a step back and say I apologize to my colleague if I've offended him. But before that, I was on his side, and I felt that I was not attacked, but vilified. But I apologize to you, Mr Zorčič, sometimes it is necessary to be able to do this so that we can apologize and take a step back. I have refused to be able to adopt this law, because I see things going beyond the rationality framework solely because of the prestigious political struggles which will invest in the parliamentary procedure of laws. Even though the law is good, it will be rejected. Tell that to the electorate when the election is over.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u248	Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Mr Danilo Ranc should be prepared and then, in the final part, the Government's representative. Mr. Tanko, please, you're being heard everywhere and the gentleman can't talk. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you very much, President. I have to say, it's kind of a pain in the ass to hear this. You get the feeling we're having a little fun, we're having a little fun, but it's on the children's safety account. But we are talking about a much more serious topic; a proposal that is worth seriously discussing and in my opinion also supporting. I've been driving a motorcycle for over 40 years, and I started with the one we're talking about today, and the traffic was much less; but I continued with a little different. And I have to say that I don't even know all the traps waiting for someone to get on the road, especially when he comes on the road with a motorcycle or a bike with an auxiliary engine. And that's why knowledge needs to be renewed, be careful. Today, we are talking about sending children on the road who have no clue what lies ahead, who have no knowledge, no experience, no protection. And we are discussing whether this is a systemic solution or not. I really think it's crazy to listen to that. If we save only one child from injury this season, of course, such a proposal makes sense to support and accept it immediately. On the other hand, for about 15 years I worked on surgery and took injuries; even such children. You can trust me to know what such injuries mean and what it means to have protection; and it would be significantly easier to get through. That is also why it is difficult to understand such a way of discussing the subject today. And there is another reason that all of you or most of you should probably understand. I have three children, my youngest daughter is 11 years old. This means that next year he can be on such a bicycle with an auxiliary motor on the road. And it's not necessary for me to agree, it can be a passenger, it can be anything. It's very difficult. When I was in these years, it was virtually impossible for me to prevent myself from going on a bike like this with an auxiliary engine or a moped or something. You can't practically do that. I think every day we miss it is by at least asking these kids for a minimum and giving them a chance to master such a bike with an auxiliary engine. By the way, you can be sure that if you drive the first day 25 kilometers an hour, the second day is definitely no more, it goes at least 50. That's what the police say, that's what we who see, monitor and watch these bikers, potential. So to find out whether it's a system law or not a system law, when we're talking about the first reading of the law today, I think it's really irresponsible of all those that I believe are very important to us. Believe me, these simple measures mean a great deal to them as well. And if we are able to adopt laws about not knowing everything and to amend, even if every article needs to be done, then I really don't see any reason why we can't put the proposal through the first reading and then through the second, which will be of any use to anyone else, maybe even to one of our closest ones. So please, let's have a serious conversation. He also mentioned that this was not a coalition, an opposition, I don't know what. In fact, we are talking about our loved ones, and I think this is an urgent measure. If the Ministry prepares a better proposal before the second reading, I'm in. However, I see no reason why the proposed law could not be adequately amended if it was to be combined, in cooperation with all of them, possibly changed, and that is why someone should be saved in this season. Thank you. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u250	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor and then a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u251	President, thank you for your word. For a very long time, I have been waiting for this debate, and in some ways I have been increasingly saddened by the insults that fly from all sides. In a way, we are acting very strangely and I imagined Parliament a little differently myself. This morning we also discussed some of the insults that no one has condemned, such as President Brglez. But today we continue with this debate — left, right; as if man were in a tavern, mocking. A man then wonders whether you belong to such a parliament or not. This law really touches matters that the predecessor has described well, that it is important for the safety of children, life, and so on. And I would not like you to speak systematically to us who are defending ourselves; but I will say in full, the same solution that the government is preparing. And that we get the impression that we literally care about some road traffic plans and so on. I do not want to defend such debates, but even less so because I simply did not like the position I had previously read as a speaker, because I was not a fan of the fact that, in some way, by not adopting the law, there were some additional. [[Incomprehensible]] On the contrary. As I have seen in this parliamentary democracy, we have two parallel proceedings. The Ministry is preparing the same solution, which, previously, you said you did not like the term comprehensive solution or integral; they are foreigners themselves. In my opinion and interpretation, which I have received from the Ministry, the solution they are preparing is better and will resolve matters in the sense offered by the law of the opposition, which I also consider to have very good solutions. I could find some mistakes here, I'm not a traffic expert, that I'm going to go into some wheels now and some definition of laws. I have only noticed one point that there will be some additional, double records that we already have for motor vehicles; and now there will be some additional records. If I were to draft the law, I would also include this in the existing system of registration of motor vehicles or certain vehicles. And they mentioned that in the country they would have one record of some vehicles; not three, four or five. Not to be obliging, I'm used to it at home, too. I would suggest this solution, including colleague Novak, when she said it before. I have seen in this bill some acceleration of activity at the Ministry, which is running parallel, but of course, we have received an answer that within a month there can be an even more comprehensive solution on the table, which will also include all your good proposals. I don't see a problem here, is there an opposition, a position. Let us find a solution that will save another life in such a way that it will be as quick as possible. And I don't understand this obvious fact that we don't believe the government and the minister who are doing this professionally, so that they don't somehow come up with better solutions, which will be even better combined with your good proposals. Then here's the common solution. I would simplify things here if it were domestically – I would now be in charge of the ministry, prepare this proposal within a month, a new proposal to come up with a quick procedure and the matter is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u252	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Peter Gasperšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u253	Thank you, President, for your word. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Applicant. Of course, I will also attach to this, the purpose and content of the law that you are trying to regulate here is undoubtedly the content that we have also seen at the Ministry of Infrastructure and we have already recorded this issue as one of the things we need to properly regulate in the legislation last year. Of course, we say that when we are dealing with these legislative changes, we are always planning more things that we will arrange; therefore, only these matters that you are referring to today have unfortunately not been brought forward or proposed in some very short time, because we are also dealing with a number of other matters that have also taken some time to prepare and deal with them. Undoubtedly, this issue, which is being addressed here today, is very much related to transport safety, which we know for sure today we all support, that we must make more, more efforts here, to ensure that the possibility of accidents and the possibility of death is as small as possible. That is why, as we said last year at the Ministry, this issue is said to be the use of bicycle helmets with engines limited to speeds of up to 25 kilometres per hour, wanted and foreseen for regulation in legislation. With the proposed law, as proposed here today, we have a real problem with the definition, i.e. the bike with the auxiliary engine in the current legislation is not defined anywhere as a category. Just as this proposal now wants to be regulated, it would in some way mean that a motorcycle helmet should be used on a bicycle with an auxiliary engine, such as an electric bicycle. I have also been in personal contact with Member Matthew Tonin, who himself has asked me to give further attention to this content. At the Ministry, we have sat down and examined how we could add these relevant contents to this proposed content, so that we would not then have such difficulties in making such a proposal, in order to have ambiguities, what kind of helmets on a bicycle and so on. However, as we were then aware in this study that these articles, which are now proposed and open to change, cannot actually solve this problem with an inadequate definition. In this sense, I can assure you that, at the Ministry with this legislation, we will get to the Government and to the National Assembly as soon as possible, we have matters very close to the conclusion. As it is said, I will give particular emphasis in particular to the conclusion of these matters as soon as possible. I am counting that it would be possible for the Government to be dealt with this month and start a parliamentary procedure next month. As it is said, not only will this matter be regulated in this legislation, but a whole series of other matters. If we focused only on this issue, so the use of helmets and the recording of these motorcycles, this solution could have come in last year. However, the direction of rescue will go in this direction: it will be necessary to clearly distinguish with the definition what the bike is with the auxiliary engine. These are especially those wheels that have pedals and have a bicycle with a power of up to 0.25 kilowatts that do not exceed the speed of 25 kilometers per hour or can go faster; but when the engine no longer helps to drive this bike. The second is what is a bicycle with a motor or moped, where again we have this category of speed up to 25 kilometers per hour and higher speeds. In these bicycles and bikes, we intend to enable and prescribe the use of a bicycle helmet; it is called bicycles with an auxiliary engine, where we have pedals and, say, an electric motor or a petrol auxiliary engine. In mopeds, however, motorcycle helmets will be required, including at the age of 18 years. These will be our proposals, which will be followed by legislation. The current proposal here is not clear precisely because these definitions are not cleared; and therefore there is, as is now understood, that a motorcycle helmet should also be worn on a bicycle with an auxiliary engine, such as an electric bicycle. I really regret that there has been a misunderstanding, so to speak. I would also like to discuss this proposal myself if it was the intention to give priority to it before we address the rest with legislative changes, in order to somehow discuss these solutions together properly. As is the case now, we cannot correct these definitions in these open articles. Once again, I pledge to give this matter priority in the Ministry, and I count that we will have it on the table as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u254	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u255	I believe that the purpose of the New Slovenia Act is exclusively to ensure security – security in this case is indeed the weakest. Summer months are coming when – I'm talking about children 12, 13 years of age – they go on bicycles on summer vacations with an auxiliary engine or a xy thing and are threatened with it. Thus, they themselves and the rest of them are on the move or on foot. And there's only two of us on the table. We weigh two. Either by supporting the law, we protect, we stress the safety of those people I have just talked about; or we reject the bill and wait for a government proposal. But with that, one mind. The Minister said that this is where we found the changes last year. Today is the month of May, and you have already found that we need a change of legislation here last year. At such a pace, this legislation will change, as I said before, next year. In the summer, when the most injuries occur and the most accidents in bicycle drivers with the auxiliary engine. And the definition is. But if you disagree with this definition, which one is, it can be amended. You've listed three to four proposals that would be upgraded to our marriage. There is no problem, as you have met with Matthew Tonin, you will be able to meet again, we are meeting because we really want a good law; and we will coordinate in the second reading. But all you have to do is talk. Too bad, Minister, because you haven't said as well in the beginning as you do now. She needs to talk. And we, too, have talked to you in preparing this law — nice of you to stress it. To make it even clearer what Nova Slovenija proposes: raising the age to 14 years, mandatory use of helmet at least up to 18 years of age, compulsory insurance, the same as for bicycle category with engine, if I simplify, due to a traffic accident, the insurance company can cover damage. There are no civil lawsuits and there may also be large claims. Then there's the I.D. plate, not the license plate. Identification plate to ensure traceability of the bike with the engine. However, one thing is to be careful if I understood Mr. Ranc correctly. I tried to understand, Mr. Ranc, I speak well. However, I warn you, do not change and define these definitions of motorcycles in the Motor Vehicle Act. That registration, technical inspection and any other charges that fall in the same way, as this will also be an additional financial burden for those who are going to drive directly or in any other way. We have this law here, and under this law, we can solve the problem without new, excessive bureaucratic obstacles. The opportunity is on the table that already this summer our nationals, citizens, citizens feel safer on bicycles with auxiliary motors or than pedestrians or others involved in traffic. And because of this for the last time, even though I have no hope anymore and I am exhausted after this debate, I ask for your support for this because it is a matter of security.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u256	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Okay. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposed law proposal Mr Jernej Vrtovec and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will be given the word as the last, first the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. If a representative of the Government is to apply, please report to the post of Secretary of State, because this is the only place he will receive. I'm opening the application. Each application shall be made within 5 minutes. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thanks again for saying that. Today there were many opinions about the proposed law. What disturbed me in all of this – I think there is a relatively large consensus that this matter should be settled – is that it was going in this direction, if the coalition or part of the coalition does not want to adopt this law just because it was proposed by New Slovenia. I'd like to deny it completely again. This isn't about prestige. I am sure that the coalition would come first with this law to the National Assembly, but we would have the obvious to reintroduce certain duties, to reintroduce something to administer, to serve on this account. My colleague Vrtovac last talked about Nova Slovenija advocating only some identification and registration of these vehicles. Look, this is a license plate. This is a registration and this will bring costs even when the Ministry arranges it. I can already see that by the time the Ministry comes with this proposal, you will have said – but we wanted it to be free, and you have now introduced some kind of registration and it will be an additional cost. We have to deal with this. That'll do. The identification is some kind of sign as on a car, and the registration plate is also an identification to be recorded in a system; all of this will lead to certain costs. Blinding that this will be completely free of charge is unfounded. I think we are all aware here of the need to amend this legislation. I'm asking myself more about this place, how did it even happen, how one scooter can apply to a bicycle, because we have a definition of a bicycle. As is true, I do not understand what the National Assembly has done in previous years. On the other hand, I read that article, and someone else laughed at it. Apparently, the motive for such a sui generis arrangement was that someone served well with these wheels and donkeys at the expense of safety. I really have no reason not to want to settle this; but it seems to me that it is right to settle in the law where it fits, because you cannot mix the pears with apples. We can also discuss why we have three, four laws or more for traffic. Why we have the Road Traffic Rules Act, the Drivers Act, the Motor Vehicles Act; I mean, a hundred laws. But if we already have them, then it is only right that we put what fits in one marriage into this marriage; and this is all the intention of our parliamentary group, but by no means that we would now not want to adopt the law because it is proposed by New Slovenia. And like I said, if we wanted all this consensus in New Slovenia and so on, we'd come to us, we'd come to the Social Democrats, we'd come to Desus, we'd say -- we'd give it to the Ministry, the ministry would be defined, and then we'd come here and we could start a show here. And I'm sure they'd agree to this law. However, since it was introduced, let's say, quickly, without any correspondence with other parties, it was put in without any previous positions, it immediately required a debate in front of the cameras to show all of us how to handle it; instead of really settling the matter on the committee first. I also agree that this should be on the working body first. We will not support the law for this reason. We have heard some coalition Members to support the law. I'm not afraid that this law is backed up, that we're going to the labour force and that the legal and legal service is still saying exactly what we said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u258	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll have one small engineering school so that my colleagues at the Modern Center Party will know what mopeds are, bikes with auxiliary engines. Minister, you are exempt from the fact that you have rightly told and explained to some members of the coalition. My friend Zorčič was founded in 1954 by Tomos. Tomos has the name Séžan Motor Factory. First, they started working under the Puch license so-called Puch MS 50 motorcycles that had pedals. And according to the legislation at the time, they had 49 cubic centimeters, which meant in the internal structure of the cylinder engine with a diameter of 38 and also with a movement of up to 42 millimeters, they gave 49 cubic centimeters. And if it didn't reach 50 kilometers an hour, there was a bike with an auxiliary engine called a moped. All the other models that had reached speeds of more than 50 kilometers an hour were already motor bikes. In the later production of Tomosa, these were models: Tomos 14M, Tomos 15 SLC and Tomos Elektronik 90, which was the fastest motor series wheel for normal users. It was 87 cubic centimetres and reached 105 kilometers per hour according to factory data. Of course, before the collapse of Tomos, legislation was also being saved. And in the 1990s, legislation allowed bicycles with auxiliary engines that were divided into two categories. One was a category of structurally similar wheels with an auxiliary engine that reached not more than 50 kilometres but set speeds of 45 kilometres per hour; and 25. Today we talk about this category of motorcycles 25. Colleagues from New Slovenia as well as Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we support, of course, do not support something that someone can process, namely, a motorcycle that is structurally the same as a motor bike, which reaches 45 kilometers per hour and more, by bypassing one earpiece in an exhaust pipe, most often the area of a fergazer or the purchase of a complete kit, where the engine volume rises from, say, 49 cubic centimeters even to 90 cubic centimetres. And this motor bike can reach speeds of up to 90 kilometers per hour, as has already been measured. And here's the problem. The problem is not only 25 kilometers an hour, because it is also achieved by cyclists, respected colleague Zorčič. More prepared cyclists also reach 50, 60; in sprints – 70, 80; and down a hill over 100 kilometers an hour. The problem is that a parent buys a bike with an auxiliary engine that's supposed to reach 25, a guy takes this area in the first workshop with this whale that I've been explaining, and they can reach a speed of 90 kilometers per hour. That's a danger. And my colleagues don't red tape. They say this bike with the auxiliary engine would be registered. Colleagues, I'll tell you one more piece of information in your favor. When I was in Switzerland years ago, every bike, usually the bike had only a registration mark just because of these arguments, which are now principles. And that's a decade of practice in Switzerland for you to know. And we can say that it does not raise some bureaucratic new obstacles, which we and New Slovenia stand for. But it's sad, I think he had a normal general development, that he had a bike, that he had a moped, we all kind of processed them. Every Slovenian serious boy, especially from the countryside, knows what Tomos 15 SLC is, what Tomos Automatik is, Tomos Pony Express, what Elektronik was, some even know the complete motor palette of Tomos also in races. Tomos was also the European champion in 1982 with Tomos GP 79, managed by Zdravko Matulja. And Tomos was also driven by Parlotti, who later killed himself on the Isle of Man, and won several times at the World Cup. Unfortunately, the engineer Imperl, who is a living legend, may also be called a street in Ljubljana; they retired him prematurely and somehow made Tomos' competition program obsolete, as you are burdening our solutions. As a result, this law will not be supported even though it has a good foundation. Dear colleague President of the National Assembly, this is the truth. We're not fooling around. A madman is made out of himself if he does not have the basic concepts of basic technical knowledge that any sane man would need. This is the whole truth and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u260	I'm gonna go over the last part. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, it's the nicest part. I would particularly like to thank the distinguished colleague Tomaž Gantar, who, colleagues and colleagues, is certainly the most competent among us, who can talk about the content that we have put on the table today. On the one hand, a 40-year-old motorist, on the other hand, a doctor of medicine. Tomaž, thank you very much. Comrade Zorčič, I don't see him in the hall right now. I find it embarrassing because of his client – the customers of the modern centre and I suggest that the two highest officials in his client ask whom we have talked to about this law. However, the Minister has already said that he had the leader of the Group of Members. To turn around a little, it is good that even before the government adopts the law, this is the lesson that Dr. Vinko Gorenak spoke about, we master this lesson. We can even write the budget in such a way that the opposition accepts it. We're at your disposal. Mr Minister, thank you, I trust you, as the opposition Member, I trust you. But we opposition Members have no other option than the Government's 2016 Normative Work Programme. It states that the Drivers Act will be adopted by 30 January 2016 at the latest. This is one of these laws that you state in your opinion of the Government. Then another document, the Motor Vehicle Act, probably a new law to be passed by 20. Seven. 2017; colleagues and colleagues. And then there is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act – by the end of November 2017. Thank God I can now tear this normative program of government apart for your ministry, because you will improve it, speed it up. Congratulations! I am waiting, and the President of the committee responsible here should request that, by 31 January or 15 June at the latest, this legislation by the Government, which is previously aligned with the opposition, be debated here. And when we talk about identification plates, for God's sake, it's not about registration. Not now here financially hit the owners of these bikes with an auxiliary engine. We don't have that purpose. But you have to keep records in some way, because they're vehicles, they're dangerous vehicles, so we're dealing with them here because we want more security. Somehow you need to identify them, you need to get this vehicle your ID, your EMHO, if you want. And it has to be free or maybe, come on, one euro. And it is almost embarrassing to me that I am an opposition Member, but I speak so much about the Commissioner from the Republic of Slovenia, Mrs Violeti Bulc, because I respect her because she also understands the digital economy, digital society and so on. And I'm just reading her discussions. And I'm surprised none of her client colleagues read them. And she says: Safety on our roads is an absolute priority for me as European Commissioner for Transport. Every death or serious injury is too much. And the European Union – this minister knows – has set itself an ambitious goal in 2010 to halve the number of road deaths by 2020. Next, Violeta Bulc: National authorities are the first to develop national solutions and face national road safety challenges. Most of the day-to-day measures are implemented at national level: enforcement of road traffic regulations, development and maintenance of infrastructure, as well as education and awareness-raising campaigns. So Violeta Bulc, our Commissioner for Transport, is a member of the European Commission College. I'm just listening to her and getting some motivation here that the legislative branch of power, that's us – the National Assembly, do something; quickly and effectively for more road safety. I will be very sorry if we wait for some regulations, and at this time, some young life will be put out again. We'll be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u262	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you very much, President. I would like to point out once again that we are here talking about traffic safety and we are trying to settle matters in such a way that this contribution to transport safety will also be the largest possible contribution. And I doubtless think that everyone here supports these efforts of the opposition or any of us. We have decided on such changes in the government since last year, but of course we are also regulating other matters, so we have not yet come to the National Assembly with this arrangement. As it is said, in the Motor Vehicle Act we also need to regulate this classification because of European regulations, I am now talking about motorcycles or mopeds that go up to 25 kilometres per hour. This regulation will be regulated as soon as possible by amending the Motor Vehicle Act. I will commit myself to handling this matter at one of the working-body meetings in June. This will set the key issue in order to make a motorbikes, or motorcycles, that go up to 20 miles [25 km] an hour, compulsory motorcycle helmet. Wheels with auxiliary engine, I'm talking about wheels that have pedals and, say, an electric motor, and on these wheels we want to arrange for a mandatory bicycle helmet. So the difference is important. There we will definitely propose, on our part, that the age limit is up to 18 years old, the elderly will then decide for themselves whether to protect their heads with a bicycle helmet or not. In motorcycles, or mopeds, at speeds of up to 25 kilometers per hour, there will be mandatory motorcycle helmets regardless of age. As far as recording is concerned, we are not talking about registration, but the registration plate, I would like to point out that things still need to be completed here, in particular as regards the rules on what to do with the transfer of ownership, how this will be recorded, who will register it, so to speak, to supplement the database and the registers of motor vehicles. With this proposal, we assess that it is going in the right direction because we actually have in the field, even in our discussions with the police, we ourselves find that the problem with the control of such vehicles, where we see — there is no secret — that they are being processed; but then it is impossible to control such drivers with motors. All these things will be addressed and arranged properly. Maybe I'll just bring it up for the end. In fact, I regret in some way that we have to conclude this debate today in such a way that today there will be no real epilogue; or perhaps there will be, we will see what the vote will be like. As an explanation, it was only when the law had already been transmitted to the procedure that we spoke with Ambassador Tonin. When we were looking for solutions to allow things to lead to such an epilogue, so that we could support it; and we were looking for where and how things could be complemented by amendments, unfortunately we were not able to do so again with the help of our professional services. I'm sorry this conversation and cooperation didn't happen before. As a matter of fact, I think we all support things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u264	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 23.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u265	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Kobilana Lipica following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u266	But there'll be silence, hello!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you. I'm asking, is there any explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u268	Wait, wait. What are you screaming like a monkey?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u269	I will give my explanation to the vote, but please, this comment was not appropriate. [[advertising from the hall]] Above all, we need to know how to do something; we do not need constant reminders. An explanation of the vote on its own behalf or an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Both on behalf of the parliamentary group. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We're already a little distracted and tired, but let me get back to the subject of Kobilina Lipica. In the Group of Members, the United Left has been insisting since the beginning of the mandate that the uncontrolled situation in Kobilana Lipica be regulated. This proposal, submitted by the Modern Centre Party and Desus, does not in any way solve this problem in our opinion. All the time, various political and ruling parties had their fingers in hand and had different interests. So it happened throughout history that Lipico was completely exhausted, as we know – the Slovenian People's Party wanted to have a casino, then LDS wanted to have parcels, SDS golf courses, and now SMC probably had its own staff. By no means will this proposal of the law before us solve this problem. We fear that Lipica will go along the same path as much in our country, now we have even lost water concessions and so on, I fear she will also go in the direction of privatisation. We get a lot of comments from the field on this and they say there are three currents; some want to privatize, others want to recruit, and others have real estate appetites. I think we opened Pandora's box. Despite the fact that the voice of the United Left will not be decisive, as it never is, we will not participate in the destruction of Lipica, especially the horse of the Lipica. Yesterday, I asked the Member of Parliament what his plans were. I am certainly not satisfied with this, there is also talk of reducing the herd, I hope that we will find a better solution in the future, because it seems to me that we will have to discuss this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u271	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, chairman. Now it saddens me that this is some topic that no one wants to explain to you. The problem of Kobilar Lipica is very similar to the problem of our beloved Pohorje, very similar to the problem of Idrija and the Idrija mine, and I could still list it, but I don't have that much time. In short, until the predators move away from these challenges, there will be no suitable solutions. I'll vote against it. Why? I'm going to give the same song by the same author as my former colleague. "That's why the Danish emperors spoke," as it were, "French with skilled diplomats, Italian with wicked actresses, Spanish with endless God and German with untrained servants, and horses spoke Slovenian." To continue to speak Slovenian with horses, but this solution does not offer this. This beautiful poem Kocbek ends this way, little also refers to the point that we have previously discussed: "Motors like quitting, elephants eat too much, and our path is long and our foot is too far." With such work as this House is collecting, I fear we are going backwards. That's why I'm voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 19. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda item 10, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications for the performance of regulated professions We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 3. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 50 of them voted for and no one opposed. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 19. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 for whom there was a vote, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 46. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 51 for whom there was a vote and no one opposed. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 47. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 for whom there was a vote, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. It's a procedural decision, there's no explanation. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 52 for whom there was a vote, and no one opposed. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third hearing on the bill on Thursday, 19. 5. 2016, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Rules Act is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u274	Good evening. In Novi Slovenija we care about safety and because we care about the safety of bike drivers and other road users, and even in this case of pedestrians, we have prepared the law in Novi Slovenija and will also support it. Throughout the entire debate today, the following has been seen: New Slovenia proposes four solutions in a single law, the government promises a systemic solution to four solutions in three laws. However, the conclusion of the whole discussion is this, if it were a coalition for truth, not for prestige, which the vote will give, then the law in the first reading, so today, would be supported, and in the second reading, would preserve only those solutions which, even in the opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure, belong to the law that we have supported today. This would actually save time, but at the same time, we would guarantee this system of things that we have been talking about for so long and so wide today. Before summer, however, we would have guaranteed only one – safety for road users, safety for children between 12 and 14 years of age, because the ministry will not force the law to enter into force until the end of the holiday, when in road transport the most people who use bicycles with auxiliary engines. That is why in New Slovenia we will also support the law that we have prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u275	The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. The speaker in front of me was talking about the truth. There are some areas of reality, because there is a physical truth, regardless of our ideological, partying affiliations. When you hit a wall at a certain speed, there's a consequence. And this is the law that deals literally with it; and to do about it some kind of casino as it happened in the two, three preceding hours is shameful. In the meantime, I received a text message when a sixth - grade student saw this on a visit to her parents ’ home and said: “The bodies are sick. It's true, we, we need some collective psychotherapy. Transportation, mobility is an activity in which, on the other hand, we are all involved, including one of the mirages that looks through the window opens a window. It's important what traffic is like and how it happens there. She can get hit by a stroke if anyone gets caught, pollution can happen, and so on. This is a correctional proposal which, by the way, violates a number of laws that could be amended, is at first reading. Even the man among us who saw some such consequences, by the coalition, colleague Gantar said very clearly, is also a longtime motorist. I really see no reason for anyone to vote against this marriage proposal, which we are improving in the second and third readings. Of course, I will not call; in the United Left we will vote in favour. You know, even citizens and citizens expect us to grow up a little bit, to stop going masquerade. It's a nice lactus paper where we can prove it or not. Unfortunately, I am afraid that we will probably not prove it, but in the United Left we will vote in favour of this proposal from New Slovenia; although the entire circle is ideologically crossing us here. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u277	Is there any other explanation? Danilo Anton Ranc has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u278	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support further consideration in the Modern Centre Group of this proposal, because we believe that the Ministry is preparing a parallel proposal which can, I say, be better and will also combine all elements and good proposals from the New Slovenia proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u279	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u280	Thank you for your word. I have to take this, because I already told you how I'm going to vote. However, this coalition should begin to be aware of what a member of this coalition said, mentioned by counterpart Gantar, that you are taking away the possibility of preventing any serious injury or even death. Of course you have parliamentary immunity, but still be aware of that. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u281	We're voting. 71 present, Members and Members, voted in favour of 35 votes against 34. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. A review of the draft conclusions of Members and Members for the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers has been published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr Mate T. Vatovec on the Government's position on secret trade and investment agreements (TTIP, CETA). An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u282	Thank you, President. I've asked the Prime Minister four very direct questions. First time. Does he not find the negotiation procedures that are extremely opaque unacceptable? Did he personally familiarize himself with the contents of the documents? How will it safeguard the interests of citizens and citizens, given that it supports the continuation of negotiations? And as the last, or perhaps the most crucial, does it support the idea that citizens and citizens should be told beforehand about these agreements? In his manner, of course, the President of the Government did not answer any of these questions or not directly; we know that these agreements have extremely serious consequences. On the one hand, the loss of more than half a million jobs, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u283	Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u284	large negative impacts on agriculture, on the pharmaceutical industry, which is one of the key industries in Slovenia; not to mention all the standards that apply – social, environmental, food, health and so on. All that the Prime Minister in some way replied to was how some interest of citizens and citizens was protected because he defended it, but this is the position of the Slovenian delegation. On the other hand, we should necessarily stress here that the previous CETA case, which has now been made public and well known, has briefly overtaken all that the Member States have identified in these negotiations; and then, among other things, the disputed ICS arbitration mechanism was introduced in the final text. In short, these are serious issues and, above all, the serious consequences of these secret agreements. We believe that we should also discuss this in the national assembly as wide as possible and address much more [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u285	I could ask for some silence!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u286	questions. [[...]] Among other things, whether it would make sense to publish the full text before ratification; and whether it should be done by a two-thirds majority in parliaments. Moreover, we must demand that citizens and citizens say this in advance at the consultation referendum. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of the general debate in the Group of Members, because this is a serious matter that could jeopardize the future of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u287	He's got Dr. McKinley on trial. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u288	Dear President, I ask you to ensure order in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u289	I've been trying all this time. I would really ask you to do this part of the session as it goes; and to at least listen to the one who speaks, and not disturb in all other ways. That would be appropriate, reflecting minimum respect for one another purely on the human level. I don't need any other directions. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Dimic's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mrs Iva Dimic's question on the wrong agricultural policy of the Government of Slovenia. An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, everyone! With the reply of the President of the Government in New Slovenia, we are not satisfied. His response was proof that he did not know the situation in Slovenian agriculture. More than that, he did not even know what information he had operated on or what information he had compiled yesterday. He talked about measures to mitigate the Russian embargo, but Slovenian agriculture was not affected only by the Russian embargo. Because the Russian embargo has caused certain, particularly the greatest damage to fruit production. I wanted to draw attention to the difficult situation and to the unfair measures in Slovenian agriculture, including the problems in forestry. And if you don't believe me, let me just say that in the newspaper Farmer's voice has been given and it also confirms what I've been asking is that there's an increasing number of young takeovers on the farm quickly counting so that their farming doesn't pay off and just go to town. This was my purpose, my goal, to prepare for Slovenian agriculture such measures as would keep such young people. If a 1 % increase in self-sustainment in Slovenia is 10,000 new jobs, then we know where we have them, at least 60,000 jobs, from 40 to 60,000 jobs, because for just as many percentage points, self-sustainment fell in twenty-five years; from 82, 83% we are now on real 34 to 36%. There are jobs here, here's our chance. And this policy, which has been going on for the past seven years, does not go this way. That's why I'm proposing and asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u291	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 20 votes against 48. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenka Bratušek in relation to the rule of law. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 18 votes against 46. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravek's response to the question of Mr Franz Breznik's question on the selection of Špela Kučan as economic adviser in Geneva. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking for support. Those who attended the meeting when I asked Minister Špela Kučan about Mrs Špela Kučan, who was appointed without any serious education to the position of advisor to the World Trade Organisation in Geneva. As you know, he has ensured that this is a suitable candidate, by ensuring that someone who is a professor of Spanish who has a course in English, that is, knowledge of English C1 and who is also an anthropologist, is qualified as an expert in international trade. I believe it can be a lawyer, an economist or an expert in international relations. The Minister did not give a concrete answer, he did not make any arguments, and I do not think it is the daughter who is the former President; but it is that he is an incompetent candidate. It's an important place, even though Minister Restoration says it's not going. In international trade, we need broad knowledge, we need knowledge, and here I believe that this candidate does not meet sufficient conditions, nor does she have competence. And I think that in a whole range of unemployed young people who have completed a Master's degree, some even doctorate, have excellent knowledge of English, which have international experience, some of which are still in the Employment Service today, this is a bad example of such practice. A poor example is also those who support such candidates, who speak of ethics, morals. For me, only meritocratic principles exist in Slovenia – those who in some area can be the best who have the best competences can, in my opinion, achieve these functions and represent the country even in international institutions. Geneva, in particular the international trade organisation and the work of the United Nations Organization, represent one important institution for me, and in my opinion we could send the extremely competent candidates we have at our disposal. Therefore, I ask you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support my proposal for a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u293	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 52. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning illegal migrants following the closure of the state border between Macedonia and Greece. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 46. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of the message. Branca Grims' action against masked migrant advocates. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 53. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of mags. Mr Andrej Širclja in connection with the recruitment to the Supervisory Board and the administration of NLB d.d. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Mr Trček, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr. Anje Kopač Mrak, and Minister of Environment and Space, Mrs Irene Majcen, to the question of employment in Slovenia. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you again for your word, chairman. At the 18th regular meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the President of the Government, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left, about the problem of poverty in Slovenia. I regret to say that Mr Cerar has given us more than an answer to some question about jobs, so I had to repeat the exercise on Monday. The minister's response was somewhat ambiguous, but even more sad and mortified, if I may put it this way, the paraphrasing of an ass from Medvedek Puja. But we should not behave in this way in the National Assembly, because we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy. What does Article 2 of the Constitution say? That we're a legal and social state. Article 3 of the Constitution states that we are a country of all citizens and citizens. Only Article 78 of 174 speaks of suitable housing. Somehow a country that can't take care of those aids most necessary isn't worth it if I put it a little harshly. In fact, the secretary-generals said that they were somehow aware of the problem, some numbers were mentioned. The Social Democratic Minister, who is basically not her basic portfolio, I must admit, she even said that there was a family split up because they had no place to put them together. At the same time, however, there are so many in half-breeded apartments, which sometimes belonged to the Ministry of Defence in that country. Somehow they also said that the largest charities would take care of it. At the same time, last week the government burned 40 million to complete HE Brežica. Whenever there's talk of Nate, the Prime Minister will willingly promise to pay more money for his weapons. Today we have also tabled in the parliamentary procedure a bill amending that part of the municipal ZUJF in order to prevent further assignments. It's a subject I think we need to take seriously. Obviously, all these issues are not sufficiently understood by the executive authority and it is also our task, Members and Members, because, according to the article on Members and Members, I will not quote it now, and I will also be responsible for this. We will, of course, vote in favour. But I urge you to stop acting like an ostrich with his head in the sand. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u295	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Marijan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Zdravko Pojbilska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to the question of Mr Marijan Pojbič's question on the amendment of the decision on the level of grants for the problem area of Maribor. We're voting. I'm sorry, I'm hanging up. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. I thought my buddy Pojbich was gonna talk. There are certain obstacles in this national assembly going beyond the United Left-SDS, although I do not agree with the vast majority of the Slovenian Democratic Party's policies. Here we touch on one very important subject that in this society and country when a new authority comes to power, especially if it comes to their head, as if the world did not exist before them. We had some power swaps, Alenka Bratusek and her team isn't here at the time, it was adopted, it's still some kind of commitment that now somehow tries to play again and again. And here we have quite a few Styrians, colleagues and colleagues, especially in the Modern Center Party, who probably, when they come to this side of Troy, kind of forget where they're from. Probably none of us who come from this troubled area, not every two or three days, if not every day, heard when these pennies will come to Maribor. I am the first one to oppose these pennies coming to Maribor in a way that is scattered if I say so at home; but this is an obligation accepted by a government and still valid. And you're playing that, you know that?Oh, my God! I don't know, I'll start on behalf of the United Left because the executive doesn't have the same immunity as us, prosecute her unless it goes otherwise. But Pojbich and I are gonna write a report together. I'm not kidding. Now, you growl, of course, now you guys are losers, you have voices, you're begging me not to say anything. Let's start thinking a little bit, not because of the next elections, but because Slovenia is not just a little bit of the Ljubljana boiler and where we will keep the stables. Whether we stay in Parliament or not. This is the commitment and commitment and the adoption of the government's law, Alenka Bratušek, which we have not revoked. Maribor is the second face of the Slovenian transition, and I will not go into the mythological story of how much the late Drnovšek is guilty, up and down here, let us leave it standing. This government needed a third of the mandate to move to Maribor; and now this little pennies what would happen, and you will cut us like sausage. Please. We will, of course, support the proposal of Comrade Pojbič in the United Left. It would be worthy of us to be a little realistic, to become mature, to be supported by all and to take seriously the growing regional differences in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u297	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to Mr Zvonka Lah's question on waste management in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Kordiš, the assembly will decide in the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the Regulation on Amendments and Supplements to the Regulation on Public Financing of Higher Education Institutions and Other Institutions. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's question on the deadlines for the completion of the pre-bolon study programmes. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 16 for them and 48 for them. [[There were 16 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting in response by the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to the question of Mr Franz Breznik's delegation concerning tax matters. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 17 for them and 47 for them. [[There were 17 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravek's response to the question of Mr Zdravek's question on the question of Violet Tomić regarding the secret trade and investment agreements TTIP and CETA. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u298	Yeah, see how meaningful that is. First and last, TTIP is ours, so I'm just going to continue where colleague Matthew T. Vatovec broke up. I cannot believe that the Members who will decide in this House on secret trade and investment agreements are against you to learn what you are going to decide. It's like the sacred monkeys are sitting here -- I can't see, I can't hear, I can't speak; but I can press the button when someone from above tells me what I'm going to press. And this invisible time of capital is also headed by this national assembly, unfortunately. I would like to know how many of you coalition MPs have applied to the deaf room to read these documents. There are some of you. Nice to meet you. We are almost all in the Group of Members of the United Left. TTIP is a threat to almost a million jobs on both sides of the Atlantic, is a threat to our food security, is a threat to social, is a threat to workers' rights. Believe me, this will be the end of the world we've known so far. And at the very least, it is that we are discussing this in this national assembly. This is at least to let us know and that Mr Restoration or Prime Minister Miro Cerar tell us what their opinion is, how they are familiar with this material, so that we can then create an opinion on this. That's why we're addicted to whistleblowers again. The Dutch Greenpeace said that these are not negotiations between the US and Europe, these are negotiations between capital, between corporations and people. Our pharmaceutical industry is at risk here, especially our agriculture. Stop lying to farmers about being self-sustaining and about farmers, about their rights and tax reliefs and whatever. TTIP will destroy Slovenian agriculture and this is definitely the case. So please, fellows, let's at least discuss this, press this button, let's talk about what we're going to know about when it comes to it; because we have a lot of responsibility – in front of us and in front of our craftsmen, who will have to live in the world that we are going to do in this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u299	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. The explanation, in its own name, is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. I'll do it for a change of Essex, business formal. When you start asking the government a little questions about this, they usually say - we were given a negotiating mandate. At a meeting of some of the parent bodies last year, this National Assembly also agreed to inform the Government of the negotiations. That's not what this government's doing. It's not working. He takes numerous conclusions from this national council in the Trlo Baba lan way. This government does not do so, and it would also be worthy of you to vote in favour. That's where your colleague Matić and colleague Ban grow up. I don't know what's funny here.Oh, my God! Then let's stop taking decisions on the boards, and we won't hang out here, I don't know, we'll lose one maybe. This National Assembly has adopted a binding decision to inform the Government which has the negotiating mandate of this State Assembly of the negotiations. The 13th round of negotiations is how many times have we been informed?Oh, my God! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-17-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u301	We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 22 for them and 37 for them. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that this decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue today at 9 a.m.
