ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 16:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin from 16:00 on, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 17 to 22 p.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 13 to 15 p.m., Dr. Franc Trček, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr Bojan Podkrajšek, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Jernej Vrtovec from 20 p.m. to 23 p.m. and Mr Zvonko Lah from 14 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the 38th item of the agenda, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Respectable citizens and citizens! At crucial times, when we think that, after many of the overcome highest and most dangerous obstacles, we have already been given the strength to face the new challenges we face, it is essential that we remember those who, in the common past, have shown that the virtues of strength, courage and solidarity do not know borders. Today, 98 years ago, General Rudolf Maister and his comrades, the heroes of Slovenian history, to which we have forgotten too many times, even on purpose. I hope that this was at least slightly corrected by the fact that 11 years ago the National Assembly today, Rudolph Maister, declared the State holiday. And how right it is for heroes to fight for the northern border with General Master at the helm never to be released from our country's historical memory. In the last breaths of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and after the conclusion of the most extensive and bloody conflicts on European soils, it was those who, with their boldness, commitment and comradeship spirit – and the efforts of the foreign kingdom despite them – prevented Maribor and Styrian Podravje from joining the then German Austria. Their actions were not self - centered; they were presumptuous. For many then also bold, but it is their awareness of national and cultural identity that the conditions for the accession of Maribor and Styrian Podravje to the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs were imposed at that time. However, by disarming the security guard of the Siberian Germans on November 23, 1918, Maister’s fighters did not merely map out the brighter fates of the places there, nor did they merely substantiate the northwest borders of our homeland. No, they wrote the first pages of the story about the free Slovenia and its people, foot-to-mouth, step-by-step and village plotted the unstoppable way of the Slovenian people towards the sovereign country, which Maister unfortunately did not wait for. But his spirit and the spirit of his fighters remained. A spirit we still need today. As a sighted and sensitive man, he proved that the courage to break from submission to the realm of his own land stems not only from military virtues and perseverance but also from love for all things. He proved that the leader was not only a general, but also a man who cared for his neighbor. And he thus gained the favor and devotion of his fellow fighters. Their common determination stems from their love for their community as well as from their association and solidarity with fellow humans. They have been with these virtues, and with these virtues we are invincible. Brothers! Our spring is coming from the ground. Clear as a storm, strong as a wave: in our homes has been set in motion, Tumo decomposed, sun brewed [[…]] Dear citizens and citizens, let these Master's version inspire us with determination that inspired many generations more of the successors of his fighters who fought for our country in one way or another; the determination to cook and cook our sun today. Thank you for your attention and sincere congratulations on the national holiday! We're moving to 38. At the end of the day, it's for a defensive interpretation of the part of the government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for interpretation was submitted by 18 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Janez Janša. For further explanation, I give the floor to Mr Janez Janša, the representative of the proposers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u2	Dear High Council, Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A few weeks ago, I was in a debate where a lot of distinguished experts were involved. One of the prominent legal experts from Slovenia there explained how he was a member of an international delegation of observers at the Ugandan elections. He said that they had major problems with what the report said, because a few weeks before the elections, the president was put under house arrest by the biggest opposition parties in Uganda and was unable to participate in an election campaign. Slovenia is not Uganda, we had no international observers. And the situation was even worse in the last elections. At that time, there was an expression of a finding that our fellow Member, Roberto Battelli, had been very lucidly sharing with us a few days ago when he said that those who could unpunishedly empty state banks could also fill the majority in the national assembly and government. This is the situation today in Slovenia, not for the first time. But as has already been said, Slovenia is not Uganda, we are part of the European Union, and no one imagines that things can happen in Slovenia that represent an even greater manipulation of the will of voters and the electoral process than in any African country. Let us just act as if we have a legitimate government and try to assess after two years of this government's work on the basis of what this government has itself entered into in the coalition contract. When we read the government's answers to the very specific questions raised in the interpretation, we found that most of these answers are completely beyond what the question is. We have found that in some ministries it was not until after two years that they first accepted a coalition contract. In some cases they did not correct any mistakes, including mixing electronic and electoral elections; but only by the way. Sometime after two years, however, they read this coalition contract and tried to write at least a few clever reasons or excuses, excuses, why things were not done. At the beginning of this mandate, the Coalition of the Party of Mir Cerar, Desus and the Social Democrats signed this coalition agreement more than two years ago. At the very beginning of this Agreement, in the second paragraph, an assessment of the situation is correct. See what it says: "In recent years Slovenia has become a large, far too large society in which the positive foundations of social integration are falling apart; and therefore it is without perspective, a society of mistrust and manipulation. A society where man is no longer the goal and value, but often only the means of those who are led primarily by greed for power and money. As a result of many injustices, there has been an increasing number of disappointments and apathy in society, and solidarity has also been declining.” If this assessment is valid for years and for a year prior to the signature of this contract, it is unusual that two parties who have been in the government have made such an assessment before; however, they shall assess that period for a maximum of black and for an unprecedented period. I fear, however, that the government coalition, with these words, has further described the situation we have today for two years. After all serious public research, 80 % of people in Slovenia today agree with this conclusion, saying that things are not going in the right direction. When asked why, the answers are different; but the agreement is in 80% of the Slovenian electoral body that things are not going in the right direction and that the situation is about the same as that described in this coalition contract. We'll come back to that later. During the last two days, the Slovenian media space was flooded with government praise for what the government has done in these two years. Even the answers to our questions from the interpretation are all possible, not that there are no things that have been done before. The things that have been started before, and now only the process has led to the realization, the issuance of various consents and acts where the proceedings began ten years ago. All living things are ruled by whales. Even by changing the height of Triglav yesterday. It's amazing what you can buy with taxpayers' money in terms of piranhas. The disaster shows great success, from delaying deadlines the wisdom of predicting things, from unmade things that have been promised, from unfulfilled promises; and ignorance is forgotten. For 10,000 euros, made infographics can make the public a success in terms of propaganda only if you give these national euros to the real agency. There has been a lot of praise, and now let us try to make some real revisions after two years. At first, it must be said that one of the claims we have heard in the last days that the government has done the most that it has been able to do. That's what this government can do. This is not what Slovenia can do, it is not what our potentials can do; it is what the nominee administrator of this country can do. I can agree with this part of the claim. Today, Slovenia is part of a broader environment and in addition to research published and done by various Ninamedia, Episcenter and similar laboratories for public opinion creation, research by international institutions, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, Gallup, Eurostat are also commissioned. And let's look at some of these international comparisons where our government is in relation to the governments of other countries in international organisations, where Slovenia is also a member. Here is an interesting comparison of people's trust in government in 2007 and 2014. In 2014 there was a year when there was one government in the first half, but also in that government there were most of the parties that are now in the coalition. Compared to 2007, confidence in the government fell by 30%, and if you look at this scale, you will find Slovenia entirely on your tail. This is an OECD study. The lowest confidence in any government among the 30 OECD countries is in Slovenia. It's not just European countries here. The same results of the same organization, even worse, I think it's Gallus, we can look at some real comparisons of how people live. Here is information on how much the net state or government debt is per capita. Here we see that every citizen of Slovenia is in charge of almost $30,000. And we've come to this number since 2008, and it was about 7,000 at the time. People don't know what billions are. And here's a category that everyone can imagine. Very large, hundreds of thousands of people in Slovenia, if all their assets are sold, will not get $30,000 as much as Slovenia is indebted to. As a result, today, when the government boasts of two percent economic growth — a little more, a little less — it is necessary to say that money is about as much as it is given a year to pay interest on that debt; and that net growth remains nothing to invest in. If there were no European funds, which have recently been unspent 70%, there would be virtually no net investment money; except for how much we are re-indebted. Then we have the minimum wage information here. Many times we hear the eulogy of Slovenia as a social state. As you can see, here most OECD countries have higher standards and a higher minimum wage, which then has a lot to do with them. Let us also look at our excellent ranking as regards confidence in the judiciary. We are among the members of the European Union excellent 24th of 28. So much for how the so-called independent third branch of power works and what people think of it. Two weeks ago, Slovenia exploded from the government's praise for how many foreign investments will suddenly come to Slovenia. Here you have information about which, as far as tax burdens are concerned, the worst location for foreign investment. Slovenia comes first. Any serious foreign investment you wish to attract to Slovenia in view of this unfavourable environment should be further stimulated. The government can do it in one case, it can do it in two cases, it can do it in three cases, it's said to take away and give to someone the added stimulation, the benefit that will come with some bigger foreign investment. Sometimes it is also worth it and it is commendable, but it is a drop into the sea, it is not a favourable environment in which investors themselves come and create new jobs. This is why it is important to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that we have a government to create a more favourable environment; not to deal with individual investment, which is business. This smugness should be reinvigorated. When we read this coalition contract and tried to make some statistics, how many of these promises, which are quite seriously described in some parts, have been fulfilled; we have reached about 10%. More than half the term of office has passed. In about a year and a half, if you continue until the end of your term of office, it is the end of an effective time for every government, because an electoral campaign will begin. More than 60% of the effective time for this coalition and about 10% of the measures for which you set deadlines or which require effort throughout the mandate have been implemented; 10%. Also a very strategic commitment that has been heard attractively since those stolen elections, say on page 33: “The adoption of a comprehensive country development strategy by 2030. By the end of 2015 at the latest, adopt the country's development strategy by 2030, which will be based on the comprehensive interdisciplinary expertise and needs of the various stakeholders of the system." At the end of 2015 it happened almost a year ago. Time is everything in government. This general commitment, which generally calls for some strategic direction, was the last year in 2013, when Slovenia had a serious strategy that was adopted for the period 2007-2013, in short, when there is no serious strategy, then we have a strategy instead. Where deadlines are laid down and important things are left behind, where the deadlines are set solely because of a public propaganda effect, then it prevails. If we were to look for one word in which we could mark what is described in the government's response to our interpretation, then that is the word contemplation. A lot of things that have nothing to do with promises, nothing to do with reality, all the things bureaucracy did when she wrote the answers to those questions, she remembered, she's here. So they're condescending. We do not claim, expect and demand even less from this coalition and from this government to comply with the Slovenian Democratic Party's programme. We did not compare what was done with what we wanted to do in this mandate. So you stole the election. We compared this to what you promised the Slovenian public; and this was done virtually nothing and 10% so far. And this is not only because of some general incompetence or inadequacy of all those working in the administration of the government, but largely because of the upheaval. When there's no work planned when it melts, this is where it ends. With some slight hope that it will be better in the future, in this time remaining, I would therefore give this to the President of the Government. This is the 2016 calendar. Maybe something will help. Hope is the last one to die. [[Secretary General of the Government. Liliana Kozlovich returns the calendar to the pay phone]] But you know that's what I expected. [[Laughing in the hall]] Those who ride the waves are most afraid of clocks and calendars. [[clapping in the hall]] Everything, except it's not measurable. Everything, just so you can't check it out. Anything, just so there's something to say, and the other one's working. Everything that can be promised in general is paid by the agency's pear with state money to cover the difference between words and actions. Thank you, Dr. Miro Cerar, for confirming this action. In the opening part, time is more modestly measured. As for this time available and around which many words have been lost in recent weeks, especially in so - called mainstreams, regime media, if this is a waste of time or a waste of time, what would we even discuss? First, it is necessary to kill the idea that someone who manages this country can be called to account at all, and then in such an atmosphere, the act we have in the Slovenian Constitution can be as banal as possible. The Slovenian Constitution defines interpellation as one of the key instruments of parliamentary democracy, through which voters and the opposition can verify what the government has actually done from what it has promised. To avoid listening to similar phrases all day long, let us look at today’s schedule. The Slovenian Democratic Party and the proponents reported together about 5 hours; 5 hours from 16. Those who think today's interpolation is a waste of time, cancel the announced time. Most of this time that we are going to spend today has been reported by the government and government parties, once again more than we do. If they think it's a waste of time, give it up, and we'll be done at 2 p.m. and there won't be a problem. But if you don't think so, then I invite you to a serious debate, the interpretation has been set this way. At this time, I will try to present some views on the key open issues. Let's start with the finances. One of the commitments in this coalition contract, you won't believe it, is written even in the first place, in the Department of Public Finance. The first step, beware, the first step is to introduce a fiscal rule and establish a fiscal world. The Constitution requires it, the Constitution and the law state that the government must attach the opinion of the Fiscal Council to the draft budget. You have voted here on two budgets without this opinion after two years when this is mandatory. You're talking about respect for the rule of law, about the rule of law, you're talking about people having to pay their bills on time, you're paying them if they don't pay. You have submitted budgets for 10 billion without the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which is binding under the Constitution. If this were done by our government, on the same day Slovenia would be burning from so-called human uprisings and the regime media would be full of accusations of unconstitutionality and violation of fundamental rules. Nothing here. It's like it's something that, by the way. First-class people can afford anything in this country, there are no criteria in this regard. Then we have another commitment. We'll do everything we can to determine the responsibility for investigating the bank hole. Yesterday you did something when you voted in favour of the Interlocutory Report of the Investigative Commission. Otherwise, the people who caused this bank hole were hired in all possible decision-making places. The whole apparatus of two tycoon banks, Factor Banks and Probanks, which has done everything we've talked about in the last few days, has spilled into the machine of a bad bank — DUTB. The same people are now solving this, which have caused it on an operational level. That's how you claim that responsibility. You demand that part of the investigative commission report be kept secret, where it says who directly caused this bank hole. Of course, there is banking secrecy all over the world; but I don't know the country where this banking secrecy would be established for banks that are no longer there. Bank secrecy is normal where disclosure of such bank secrecy could endanger a bank. But this is about two banks that are no longer there; and it insists that it is still bank secrecy. Watch out. Today we have two computer programs that allow to be seen for every entity, natural person or legal person who has received some money from public funds and this is published. If someone earns money honestly, it's published; if someone steals it, it's bank secrecy. It's a genius environment to determine responsibility. This is also a matter of great selectivity, of selective treatment. Every time this darkness opens up, some people jump into the air and say - Church, Bells, a hundred million holes. They forget to say that the principal director of the so-called bell tower bank hole was convicted; the only one of the bankers. But when it comes to ten times the sum, there's no one here. The people who have done so are sitting in the Cabinet of the President of the Government today, in bodies that continue to decide on Slovenian banks, in associations of banks and so on. Here is some circular route of the first-class – a little in Banka Slovenije, then in a commercial bank, then in the finance ministry, then a little more to some place Slovenia has in an international institution and back again. One year you're making a bank hole, next year you're controlling it if you're right; one year from now you're investigating. That's about how this happens, so it looks like your commitment to looking at this bank hole. When it was discussed how it is even possible that another place of state banks in the life of our generation was created, it is forbidden to mention that it has been a national interest for a long time. When Milan Kučan spoke in Maribor at the 10th anniversary of Factor Bank, he said it was a national interest. Today it is indeed a national interest through the pockets of all taxpayers we pay for it. The bank's robbery was declared a national interest and was then said to do so; we now know that this was the case. I will repeat again at the end of this introduction, everything else below – those who can afford to empty state banks unpunished have all the power at their disposal to fill the majority in this national assembly and in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u3	You received 28 replies from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the interpretation. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the I give the floor to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar, to explain the written reply to the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members, dear citizens and citizens of Slovenia! Today’s interpolation is not really necessary, for the Government is clearly, publicly, transparently and regularly reporting to the National Assembly on its work. He also often tells the public at extraordinary meetings and via questions sent to them what we are doing. However, this is the right of the opposition that we respect, and that is why today we will take this opportunity to tell not only the opposition, but also all citizens and citizens what we are doing; and we will also base it on the facts. And so it is especially important that we speak, so we will also talk about showing people the true facts; not the ones that some create or do not want to show them. The perceptions from the interpolation mentioned above are unfounded, we have already rejected them in a written reply, but today we will also talk briefly about this so that you will see it for yourself. Two years have passed since the beginning of our government's mandate and we remember what happened then. Two years ago, we were in a financial, economic, social and even political crisis. The governments were changing before, there was no stability, there was a three-way threat. Some even invited her to Slovenia, since Slovenians do not know how to manage their own public finances. Bad loans were accumulated then, not today; then. Government property management was bad and expensive. The budget deficit was twice as high as today, we had high unemployment, we were mainly saving on investment. Any reforms, serious reforms have not been taken into account, social dialogue has been interrupted and many other developments have occurred. Mr. Janša spoke of the verse. It was a dream then; not today. If we use that word, we need to look back; not in the future. Let me immediately say that the government I run is legal, legal, legitimate, elected in democratic elections and stable. This is recognised by the entire international community and also by a large part of the Slovenian public, except for some who identify themselves with some representatives of the opposition. The fulfilment of the promises under the coalition contract is to a far greater extent than has been shown. It is also a bit unusual for someone to measure how we operate in coalitions in government by their own accord, but let me tell you that we are implementing a coalition agreement far beyond the percentage that has been stated. Of course, some projects will be completed by the end of the mandate, some of us are already, for example, cash registers, some are in full swing. We're making big moves, moving for the better. And when we talk about indicators, we're going to have to take something into account. When we took over the country two years ago, it was in a serious crisis. We cannot measure our performance today according to 10 years ago, 20 years ago; but in view of the situation in which this government took over the leadership of the country. And here, when we mention the facts that I am about to mention, it is not a matter of any complacency as we are told, but it is simply a matter of showing the fact that citizens and citizens know what we are doing at all. Now I'm going to start with this presentation. Firstly, we have ensured political stability, there has been no past, three governments have proven unable to ensure this stability. The situation was getting worse, and I said how. We were in a cramp, it didn't go any further, so I went into politics myself. Immediately after the beginning of the work of this government, we have started to improve – and have significantly improved – the state of public finances, today at the lowest level of the public financial deficit since the beginning of the crisis. For the first time in the post-crisis period, Slovenia reduced the country's deficit below 3% last year and we are reducing it further. The state began to manage public finances as it should; not as the previous governments have spent more than they had, but then we came into this crisis. Today they say that it was better then; of course, at the expense of young people, at the expense of future generations. And I won't let that happen. This government won't let that happen. We have reduced the total tax debt, introduced tax receipts that have already brought the first tangible results – 54.7 million so far into the budget. This is not the case; it is a matter of creating a certain order, a legal order in society, so as to restrict and to eliminate the grey economy as far as possible. We are working intensively on this, because this is the mentality that our youth must take from us to act transparently, by law, to pay taxes that are then passed into education, science, into all these support systems; that we are simply honest. We owe ourselves at a lower rate because this public financial policy has enabled us, and then we can allocate these funds to, as I will explain later, productive spheres. Repeat, no more threat with three. There is no longer the need for foreigners to come and manage our public finances and decide which companies we sell and so on. We have regained our own financial sovereignty, of course within the European Union, as far as we have it. We have steady economic growth. The opposition often says that the government has nothing to do with this. What do we have to do with this? Of course, we can all be happy in the first place, and we can congratulate our good, courageous entrepreneurs who fight in foreign markets on the domestic market that they employ. But what does the government have to do with this? Let me explain. The government is implementing an internationalisation programme in 2015. We encourage and help our entrepreneurs to export, and we help foreign quality companies, such as have good business models that will hire our people, develop an economy in Slovenia to come to us. We date economic diplomacy abroad; we invite strangers to our home. The Chinese, the Japanese, come to us from other countries of Europe. We go abroad alone. We have recently been to China, the United States, Vietnam, Iran, the United Arab Emirates, Serbia; even the government has gone to some such meetings to strengthen cooperation. Today, when I say that, we're opening an embassy. Our Foreign Minister, Karl Erjavec, is with the President of the country in Iran, where we are re-opening the embassy, which unfortunately we have closed down in recent years, and thereby prevented better economic cooperation. What else is affected by economic growth? Security, security, security. Even when we had severe pressure on migration, almost half a million migrants came to Slovenia, we ensured security. The economy worked to a large extent, and people's lives were largely intact. Where the disturbances occurred, we put them away. We are also now legally allowing people to receive compensation if, for example, they have been disturbed by some obstacles or operations along the border in their property; but we have ensured security and we continue to ensure it. Economic growth is also affected by the state administration we are trying to improve and the whole public administration, education, science, etc. Above all, we have established a good, much better, state property management. We have adopted, for the first time since we have this independent country, a strategy for managing state investments, state companies, insurance companies, banks. Why? That we have clear criteria for how to handle this. With this we have ensured corporate governance, the policy no longer interferes with businesses and their business policy. [[advertising from the hall]] The Slovenian State Holding, which we depoliticized to the greatest extent possible, has already been established, has put experts there and we already had 2.9% higher yields in state companies last year; this year we are talking about 4.7% higher returns. We therefore introduce better management with measurable criteria, with control and transparency over state property, in which politics has previously been too often involved and harmful to it. Foreign direct investment in Slovenia at the end of 2015 amounted to EUR 11.6 billion, which is 1.4 billion more than at the end of 2014. This is proof that we have attracted foreign investors, that we are establishing appropriate infrastructure, that we have people; and we must be proud of that. That we have people with knowledge who have competences that are skilled labour. That must be our pride. We need to tell people more than once that they will be confident that Slovenians represent an attractive environment also because of the human factor; and especially because of it. On the world scales, we grow competitiveness, we rise up, as everyone sees. Slovenia is becoming a country with international reputation, again. She lost him. By opening up when we are recognised at European Union level and in the world, this is a sign that Slovenia is a country in which investments can be made; and in this way we also help the development of the economy. We are improving the business environment, not as fast as we would like, but we are addressing administrative obstacles, deregulation of professions, we are saying that we are allowing a more flexible employability, and we are simplifying procedures. We do something every day, but it doesn't go as fast as we want. These obstacles are huge, but we're not going to stop. And we're once again promoting science and research, and there was drought years ago. We have increased the resources for science in the 2016 budget by 5%, thus for the first time since 2011, we have turned the downward trend in the budget for science and research. With the increase in funds, we will continue in the next two years, when we will focus, as we have done now, on the integration of science with the economy; and this is once again some support for the economy. We also introduce the apprenticeship system, in Slovenia we unnecessarily neglected professional knowledge and underestimated it. We must no longer allow ourselves to do so; we must respect this knowledge, we must develop it, we need it. And by investing in knowledge, research and development, the state is investing this. With this, Slovenia is becoming a modern, advanced, forward-looking country; a country that is moving forward. I tell you, we know this and we can do it; and we will insist on it. What I am extremely happy about — more and more people are busy, employment is increasing. What is more important than that a citizen can get a job so that he can create a decent life for himself, for his fellowman; that he is creative; that he is part of a society that feels that it is important to contribute to others. We're falling unemployment rates. For the first time in six years, we have a unemployment rate below 100,000. These trends are still going in the right direction. More and more young people have employment, 50,000 young people, I stress, about 50,000 young people [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u5	Quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u6	Not in Austria, Slovenia, distinguished opposition gentlemen, in Slovenia 50,000 young people have received jobs in the last two years. True, young people also go abroad. Many also go to study, which is good, after work experience, and hopefully also manage to return. Those who do not, we think about them and hope that we can enable them to do so in the future; but we certainly allow them now more than you did two, four and more years ago when you caused or caused this crisis. And these are the fundamental positive trends that our government has contributed to in its work, and much more so to our government. Trends affecting optimism, so with this responsible work, with this developmental and modern path, we will work for a better future for everyone, for a better life for people. This is a completely different situation than when financial and economic policy was mismanaged in 2004 to 2008 and then later. And because of the fate of the mistakes and the gravity of such irresponsible, even untransparent, state-run accounts, unfortunately, we are all still paying off today, unfortunately, even young people. That's why we have such a hard time pushing each other forward, but we're fighting. The budgets we adopted this year are development-oriented for 2017 and 2018. Since we can be indebted from last year to the success of the financial sector at historically low interest rates, we will be able, together with higher revenues, to the key priorities or those areas that were disadvantaged during the crisis. These are mainly security, infrastructure, i.e. railways, roads, energy infrastructure, science, employment and health. They will be allocated almost €2.2 billion in 2017 and never again in 2018. With regard to public sector wages, we have already abolished austerity measures this year, and we have provided at least 110 million Euros for wages in addition to 200 million Euros in coordination for 2017. We already have further talks with the public sector unions on Friday to see how they will respond to our recent proposal. And here the government is seeking dialogue. On the one hand, you've seen, with the Fides union we've managed to freeze the sentence into the good of the patients, in the good of the people, that we have now two months to negotiate in peace forward. We had 20 negotiations this year before the strike, working on it all the time; later on. However, with the public sector in general, we want to settle matters better so that everyone has more, but in the public financial framework. The responsible government must not give up on this; however, I would like to see that the category of the worst paid staff of J in particular derive the most from what we will agree on. The main component of the budget or budget for two years is therefore no longer focused on saving, but on programmes, on development, in the future. And this is our responsibility to ourselves and to future generations. Dearly respected, these measures to regulate public finances, to better manage state property, to adopt a strategy, the criteria for how this must be done to increase income, do not do so because of Brussels; we are working for ourselves to prove that we know that we are a state of our citizens who care for their citizens, who are responsible, who does not spend more than they have, who can save for the bad in good times and who behaves responsible also by not promoting corruption and other dishonesty. The fiscal rule has also been discussed. Dear Mr Janša, this government has negotiated strongly with all of you Members in order to reach a two-thirds majority for the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, which we had to reach in order to fulfil the constitutional commitment. We reached a two-thirds majority in which, unfortunately, the Slovenian Democratic Party did not want to participate, despite repeated discussions, despite adopting a European acceptable model of fiscal rule. And even later, when we tried to name the fiscal world, you weren't there, at least not constructively. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u7	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u8	And that is why I would like us to work together in this area in the future better to find a common language, because it is essential that we cooperate. I understand that we have different views, but we also need to find a common language where it is for the benefit of our citizens, where it is for the good of the country. Tax restructuring, or slightly simpler said, has also been the first step in tax reform into good productivity and efficiency in companies, in terms of rewarding the knowledge of young people and others who are employed as highly qualified personnel in companies. The first step we're going to upgrade with the next step. We are also helping businesses in the field of tax policy, and we are doing this and we are going to do it even more. Slovenia has very diverse regions, very diverse areas. Each has its own characteristics, its own problems and challenges. And that's what this government takes into account. We also visit regions. We prepare well for them, we have already been in seven regions, we conduct dialogue with municipalities throughout Slovenia and listen. Let me just say, for example, because I can't explain myself here in a broad way. Last time we were in the south-eastern region, we went to the nomadic area. What does it look like? We have ensured that in the following year and a half – and already intensively – we will build the last part of the railway from Ribnica to Kočev, that after more than 46 years people will again have passenger traffic from Kočev to Ljubljana. After more than 46 years! This will also modernise the freight transport railway, which will help businesses in the region, such as Melamine, an excellent company, which will be given 1.5 million euros in aid in order to be even more innovative, more development-oriented and to employ 26 or more workers in the coming year. These are concrete steps and this is important. Furthermore, we listen to the students, we listen to the entrepreneurs, we listen to the civil servants, we listen to NGOs, we talk to the mayors, we talk to everyone when we go to the region. We provide road renovations and so forth, very concretely. But each region has its own specialities and we try to take them into account to listen to where the government can help it most favorably. Let me mention tourism. We also contribute to economic growth and development here. First of all, I will say that we have regained our independence, and this government has regained the independence of the Slovenian Tourism Organisation as a special unit responsible for the promotion of Slovenian tourism. In 2016 we provided EUR 10.8 million for the promotion of Slovenia, this is state money. With this we have successfully provided support for tourism, because the results are very clear. Tourism keeps climbing. So this is a double total than the year before, which gave results, very concrete results. And then there are concrete contributions. For example, the canine cable, which was renovated, was restored by European means as well as by direct financial assistance from the Ministry of Economy. Does this contribute to economic development and tourism? It helps. We also maintain green Slovenia through deliberate measures. We are paying attention to how we build environmental infrastructure and fully renew spatial and construction legislation. We are a government that can be very proud with you, with all those from the coalition and the opposition who have participated in writing down the right to drinking water in the Constitution, to protect water as our public good. I was very surprised, even disappointed, I must admit that the Slovenian Democratic Party and Nova Slovenija have not joined this project; but I am glad that we have this secured now with the Constitution. A few years ago, we were directly threatened by the possibility that multinationals could also absorb our waters. And now we've stopped it. We're keeping green Slovenia, not just what I said. The American University of Yale, one of the world's most famous universities, has placed us among 180 countries in fifth place after taking care of the environment. As a country of Slovenia, we have been declared the world's first green destination. Our capital Ljubljana is, as you know, the green capital of Europe this year. The clean, green economy is the long-term strategic direction of Slovenia and in this context also the circular economy; all that will help to keep green, to increase employment and to go into the future, to preserve this Slovenia also for young generations. That is why we are modernising the country. In the field of public administration, we introduce new digitisation processes, optimize information solutions, simplify public procurement, ensure that we move in time. Here we strive to make Slovenia even in the field of digitisation, where we are extremely advanced, that citizens do not even know that we are among the leading countries according to the capacities of people of knowledge, here we strive to become one of the leading countries in the field of digitisation and everything that awaits us inevitably. That is why we want to be not only a passive observer of development, but an active member of this development to encourage it in us, in Europe and beyond. We're improving traffic connections. Fortunately, we have many already good, some not yet enough. At the beginning of the mandate, we were given a very poor condition on roads, including railways, which we constantly improve with renovations. And I assure you that we are still working on the Second track project for the good of Port Koper, for the good of Slovenian railways, for the good of Slovenia and for all those who will use Porta Koper, railway and this second track later and are already using it today. We are aware of the strategic importance of Luke Koper, and let me be very clear once again. We are constantly encouraged to want to privatize Luca Koper, to put her in the hands of some foreigners. The answer is no. The coalition is strong that Luka Koper remains state-owned as a strategic investment; and I hope that these grafts will eventually end. Despite limited financial capabilities, we have found funds for the continuation of the Brežica hydroelectric project. The construction of this hydropower plant is one of the largest infrastructure projects in Europe. It enables us to achieve the required percentages of renewable energy by 2020 and also improves the flood security of the entire area. The implementation of flood measures throughout the country is also one of the fundamental and important tasks of this government. Since 2014, we have doubled resources to improve anti-floating security. But you know, if there's no more great floods, luckily, it's not so self-evident, and we've been working on it a lot. One of the main priorities of the government is health. I'll talk about it. Other topics will be discussed by ministers today, so that they can present what they have done and what they are doing. As far as health is concerned, that's all. We need to shorten the waiting lines. We're working on it, and we will. Better management of health institutions, better organisation of management and reduction of bad scratches; very limited or eliminated bad practices. All this for the people, for the patients, for the welfare of citizens and citizens. In the area of justice, we have already made 15 important amendments to the law in this mandate. I'm sure the minister will present it. Thus, for example, we prevented obsolete hands for a time when a person avoids persecution. From now on, they will rest, and no one will be able to break free from the persecution. We prevent the chaining of companies that do not pay workers. We no longer threaten investigative journalists who reveal matters of public interest, i.e. affairs, with criminal proceedings. Suddenly we appointed 30 new prosecutors, which was the largest group of new appointments in the history of the new country. Of course, I expect these prosecutors and judges, who are independent of their work, to do the job even faster and better. We are working with the opposition at the hidden graves and the five-year burial of the victims, and we have taken some important steps here. Thank you also to the Commission for the covered graves and all the others involved. Of course, we also managed migration, perhaps later if necessary. We have taken humanitarian care of migrants, we have been in solidarity with European countries and we have ensured the security we still provide; and this is very important. Let me finish. Dear Members and Members, residents, residents, citizens, citizens of Slovenia! The government has a clear vision. I have a clear vision of where we're going. We will continue to improve the standard of living of people, because man, citizen, every citizen of Slovenia counts and is important. And I assure you that in these months that are coming, we will not go through some pre-election games, but we will continue to work hard on the projects that we have planned in our coalition agreement and that are emerging as new challenges. Like migration or anything else that has hit us unexpectedly, we have responded as much as possible. I would also like to thank all citizens and citizens, entrepreneurs, NGOs, other organisations, all individuals of good will, volunteers, in fact all those people who work honestly and who care about your neighbors, our society and our country. You're the one who counts and can take this country forward with us, but we need to be together. Yes, we can have different opinions, but we must be together on key issues that are in the interest of all of us. I'm going to insist on that, so I went into politics. I wish with you, citizens, citizens and all Members of Parliament, everyone else, to create a modern, development-oriented and forward-looking Slovenia. And let me tell you very clearly, in these two and very few years of government leadership, when I've come to know a lot and a lot of things, I'll tell you that the Slovenians know and can do it. Let us be confident and move forward together! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u9	Before I go any further, I'd like to point out one thing. Getting into the word of another and the other's other when speaking in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is the least uncultured and also an attempt to prevent clear expression and thus to confront views, thus tending to be undemocratic. Please stick to the fact that others can say what they have to say and what they can say inside this hall. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, in its name Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the United Left of Government Interpellation proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support it; nor will we support the Government of Mir Cerar. Today’s interpolation puts us in the face of a false dilemma. After more than two years of this term, it must be clear to everyone, the answer to social inequality, to skating, to the periphery and other social problems, neither the government of Mir Cerar nor the government under the tactics of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we have already seen. The reasons why the Mira Cerar government should leave are completely different from those we are listening to today. In the United Left we will therefore briefly present them in the form of alternative interpolation. There are two main differences between the Modern Centre Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we have seen, between Mir Cerar and Janez Janša – style and detail. The programme and direction are practically the same and differ in the way and intensity of implementation, in the manner and intensity of authoritarian governance. This is a comparison between the right and the so-called middle. Today's interpolation has two purposes. On the one hand, it is obvious that the pressure on the right-hand side of the government is to tighten up its policy and, on the other hand, the government will take advantage of the 15 hours you have booked for your own pyar. In the United Left, we will present our reasons, and then we will no longer be involved. But once again, interpellation puts us in line for false choice. The government of Mira Cerar should also, in our belief, leave, but the reasons are completely different. Let me introduce them in eight points. For the first time; the government of Mira Cerar runs anti-social policy. While continuing its policy of saving and tightening belts to ordinary people and weaker groups, it also gives tax gifts to the richest and privileged. In two years, the government has changed the income scale twice, giving almost €80 million to ten percent of the best paid in the country. She did so with an excuse to obtain engineers in this way; however, engineers with a 1.6-fold average salary will not obtain a substantial salary. For example, the manager or a member of the board of any bank with 10,000 euros a month's salary will gain as much as EUR 2 000 400 a year through this tax reform. And while you give the manager EUR 2 000 400 net, on the other hand, savings continue in ordinary people and the weakest groups. The minimum wage remains on 561 euros, the guaranteed pension in this country remains on 444 euros, a pension which a person earns after 40 years of full-time employment becomes a social problem. The minimum social assistance remains 292 euros, more than two-thirds of the population and the population receive a salary of less than 1,000 euros; more than half of the pensioners continue to live with pensions of less than 500 euros. This is a balance on the other hand: for two, three years we have economic growth, and the government – instead of deciding to help or share the fruits of this growth with those who create it, i.e. the employees, those who create it, the pensioners, or those who need it, the unemployed and those who need it – rather decided to give the fruits of this growth to the most powerful, the richest, those who are already privileged. We cannot support such a social policy in the United Left and that is the first reason why this government should leave. The second reason is that the government of Mira Cerar does not serve the public interest, but is subject to private interests and lobbying all the time. If I mention just a few examples – the first current case is the deregulation of petrol prices. It is clear to all that all analyses have shown, including analyses by government services and public institutions, that the deregulation of petrol prices – which means that gas prices will no longer be determined, regulated but will be released and be able to be set up by petrol services themselves – will not improve competitiveness, as the real government does, but on the contrary. On the one hand, this will increase the price of petrol; on the other hand, this will create – threatening us after the studies that have been done – almost a hundred million holes in the budget. The only ones who will benefit from this are petrol services, specifically the largest OMV and Petrol, which are already in majority private ownership, which can offer extra profits, extra earnings at the expense of all of us, at the expense of the budget and at the expense of those who pour gasoline on their pumps. This is the first case, an eclectic example of how the government has kneeled completely without arguments before the private interests and interests of the lobby. Another example is the registration accounts. In Slovenia, people who received shares in transit via certificates had open registration accounts. The people who had these accounts didn't trade their property, but there it was. Usually it was less valuable; I think about 70% of people have assets in these accounts, which are less than 1,000 euros. The government has now decided to abolish these accounts. 250 000 are still in Slovenia and all these people are supposed to be moving to stock exchanges by the new year, where they are supposed to open trading accounts, although they have no interest in trading this property. This was explicitly in the interest of stock exchanges that thus promised themselves the benefits – the benefits of opening accounts, the benefits of commissions, the benefits of disposing small shareholders. There are around 11 bidders in Slovenia and the benefits of this measure are estimated at around €11 million if the government scenario announced. The government scenario was to allow small shareholders to be dismissed by banks and stock exchanges, and this was allowed. For six months you watched through the fingers of the stockbrokers' houses how these small shareholders were dissipated, even though a guardian was introduced into the law so that the price of the services should not exceed half a percent of the value in the account. Nevertheless, we have seen how they charged 50% and more. This was permitted by AUKN, a public institution, the Securities Market Agency set up by this government, which acted as an advocate, a trade union of brokers' houses; not as their supervisor. They looked through the fingers at the Ministry until the last such thing. Fortunately, we stopped this yesterday, after the long suffering of convincing on our part, by the United Left, to adopt a mandatory interpretation of this article of the law, which prevents small shareholders from being irritated by stock exchanges. But the government was, of course, kneeling here in front of the lobby, and she was willing to do it and look through her fingers. Two additional cases are chimney and burial activities. If we look at only funeral activity, it was regulated, translated into public service in Slovenia over 100 years ago. The reason for this was that commercial funeral services provided such expensive services that some even buried relatives could not afford them. Now, 100 years later, we're obviously going back to the 19th century, and the government has allowed this service to be commercialized. The fourth case is supplementary health insurance. The Coalition Treaty clearly states that a clear commitment has been made for the government to abolish the supplementary insurance because it is unfair and serves private insurance companies, which in this way take for themselves about 60 million euros a year, which would otherwise have to run into a health check. The government has promised to put an end to this. After two and a half years, not a millimeter was made in this direction in order for this to actually happen. This is another reason why the government should leave because it is not a government of public interest, but a government of private interest and lobbying. Thirdly, the government of Mira Cerar continues with the extremely damaging privatisation of state property, this time we can only talk about El Dorad for Privatizers. Let's take a look at some cases. The most scandalous case under this government is the NKBM. This is a state bank where more than a billion euro has been invested through recapitalisation. The book value of the bank at the time of sale was little less than €700 million. Let us remember how much the government has allowed the sale of this bank – for the stings of 250 million euros. We made a billion, it was worth 700 million, you sold it for 250. And you sold it to some speculative fund that we don't even know what its purpose is with this bank; we're talking about the second largest bank in Slovenia. The second such case is the Brnik Airport. The airport of Brnik had an accumulated EUR 17 million for the construction of a second terminal. The government sold this airport to the German Fraport. The investment dropped water. Instead of developing an airport for Central Europe from our airport, we will get a periphery airport where we already see that flights to world headquarters are increasingly distorted, the quality of access to Slovenia and access to us, Slovenian residents, and to other places is significantly lower. The third is Luke Koper and the second track. The Prime Minister argued before me that the coalition here is strong that Luka Koper will remain in Slovenian hands. The truth is far from that. The coalition and the government insist on a public-private partnership on the second track, which will be proven by several studies the most expensive possible solution. If you build with public funds, you could build for about a billion euros; because you will build with a combination of private partnerships, prices will probably go up to over two billion euros. In the background, cows are trading with Hungary and Austria; also with regard to the privatisation of Luka Koper, who will most likely be the victim of these frauds. This proved to be the case in the summer when the government supported SDH in the demolition of the Porta Koper administration, which listened to its opposition to these pressures. That's the third reason why the coalition should leave is called privatisation. In addition, let me stress that the privatisation strategy that you have adopted is not a strategy that has any safeguards, but, as we see, it is just a list of virtually all state-owned companies for sale, which is completely unregulated. Companies are sold to speculative funds, sold in tax havens, sold to companies whose owners are not even known because they are straw registered at certain addresses. This is the privatisation policy of this government, the content of transparency and accountability. Next. The Mira Cerar government is lowering labour standards. Let me mention a few cases here. The first case is Uber. The government says you're instituting new digitisation processes. On the contrary. You accept completely uncritically everything that is presented as new, digital and advanced. Uber is nothing more than a taxi service; but a taxi service that does not employ its employees, which does not pay social contributions, which does not pay pension contributions, which is not registered in Slovenia, but in the tax oasis, so that all funds are obtained there. This is a company that has already been proven in several cities around the world to launch a taxi service and an outflow of public transport. Here we have the Vice-President of the Government, who – I hope not with the blessing of the government, but with his own fist – is going to America and he is just about to bring this modern, digital, advanced practice to Slovenia. Unheard of. Another example is the Labour Inspectorate. In the United Left we have been warning for two years that we have 200,000 companies in Slovenia, but only 77 supervisors – labour inspectors. One labour inspector is supposed to supervise as many as 2 000 600 companies and then we are surprised, as we heard a few days ago, that in Ajdovščina there is an Incom, where practice is allowed to work in the middle of Slovenia for Bulgarian minimum wages, after 270 hours and more per month. You know where this is going. This leads to this becoming a standard practice to make it a business model, just as it already is. It is only a matter of time before domestic workers receive the same requirements. If Bulgarian workers in the middle of Slovenia are allowed to work unpunished, I think for employers, for Bulgarian minimum wages, it is only a matter of time before Slovenian workers are asked to work for Bulgarian minimum wage. The government allows it, looks through the fingers, and does not blink with the eye when it says that it is necessary to improve control over working conditions and that it is necessary to apply the same standards for all. Even further, the government is going so far as to think out loud about completely liberalising forgiveness so that now the reason for the dismissal of the employee could become a loss of trust. Do you know what that means? Any employer will be able to make it up – I have lost confidence in this employee, so I forgive him. This means the death of any organisation for workers' rights, this means the death of any unionism, which means the complete subordination of employees to the interests of employers. This means pressure on wages, this means lower standards, this means death of the social state. And the government we have here is thinking about it out loud. I hope it's just a provocation, but anyway, these are the reasons why the government should leave. Next. The government of Mira Cerar boasts that the clean, green economy of the future of Slovenia is the opposite. Let's see the Environmental Protection Act. So far, companies that are environmentally harmful or that deal with environmentally harmful production have been subject to the need to publish a licence for several years. The government has accepted that once a concession or license has been granted, it has been granted for centuries. This is the environmental policy of this government, and I do not see how we should have a green and clean future at the outset, as announced by Prime Minister Cerar. Then, for the seventh time, the government of Mira Cerar signed the CETA agreement against the will of the people. The CETA agreement was opposed by a large majority of the Slovenian population. You've received calls, countless calls from NGOs, environmental organizations, experts, civil society activists, eventually 108 municipalities. All of these appeals have been heard, the government has simply decided, with the support of the coalition, that before the great European countries led by Germany, it will turn out to be a credible partner and will sign everything it has said three weeks before that is unalterable. I am specifically talking about the ICS case, these are the international arbitration tribunals which are established by this agreement, where international corporations will be able to sue countries if countries adopt legislation that will reduce their profits. This will be done by bypassing national laws, saying everything we accept here and what is written in our laws. Minister Restavšek told me personally when I asked him as an MP if the government would agree that this ICS was included in the CETA agreement, he said, quote: “No, this is unacceptable, unacceptable, unacceptable.” Well, three weeks later, we got a deposited signature of this agreement in Brussels, even though we could have behaved with at least so honor that we could follow, say, what kind of Vallonia and try to achieve something; but not. The government would rather act as a credible partner before international capital than show its face in front of its own people. Eight. That government is leading a service policy to Nate. The funds for NATO and its international operations will increase by as much as €12 million over the next three years. And we are not talking here about operations that would contribute to the reputation of Slovenia or to our strategic interests, but to international peace. We're talking about operations like the provocation of the Baltic, where we now see that we're even talking about a new cold war. Slovenia is happy to participate in this, although there is no reason for it to do so. The North Atlantic Charter clearly allows the State to exempt itself from operations if it disagrees with them; and despite having no interest in provoking Russia. Russia is one of Slovenia's biggest trading partners, and I don't understand why the government here is blindly following Nate and these reckless policies. Not only does she spend extra money; at the same time, she has accepted our call as unacceptable for our troops' deployments to foreign NATO missions to be decided by Parliament, which is a democratic standard in seventeen countries across Europe. This is the next case why the government should leave. And last thing, the government is sharpening the repression, they've only seen that the barbed wire isn't temporary, it's turning it into a panel fence. We have seen that the police powers for the military are not temporary, but they are becoming a permanent measure, we have seen a new package of repressive laws now coming, which will increase the powers of police officers, and the officers will lack only a gun. I don't know who you want to control with this anymore, but I hope that in the field of repression we don't step on the path of the massive control of our citizens, as is done by some United States of America. That's our eight points why this government should leave. Let me bring them up again in a hurry. Firstly, the government is leading anti-social policies; instead of giving pensioners, the unemployed and those living with minimum or under-average wages, it is giving rewards from the growth of managers. Secondly, the government is subject to private interests and lobbying instead of following public interest. Thirdly, the government continues to privatise state assets, which it has made completely non-transparent; we sell tax havens, postal collectors, speculative funds, and all of this at a cost, a bank worth 250 million. Fourthly, the government lowers environmental standards, a concrete example is the Environmental Protection Act. Sixthly, the government has signed the CETA Agreement despite opposition from the people. Seven, the government is following NATO's service policy in the wake of a new bloc's tightening of relations with Russia, although Slovenia has no need, let alone interest. And eight times, there's a footstep with new repressive laws at U.S. levels. These are just some of the reasons why this government should leave, but these are not the reasons the Slovenian Democratic Party cites in its interpretation. As I said, interpellation puts us in the face of a false dilemma — Cerar or Janša. The response of the United Left is clear — none of them. If anything has been shown in the last election, it's that switching faces isn't enough. What we would really need is a fundamental policy change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u11	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, in its name Mag, has the word. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u12	Dear Members, dear Members, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Ministers, good afternoon! The government of Mira Cerar played the first half-time football game. Now he's sitting in his dressing room talking. Every breakup, every half-time, is an opportunity for a team to make an assessment of whether the game went well and whether things went in the right direction. The assessment is that during the first half of the year, Dr. Mir Cerar's government did not take the game seriously, but, above all, to find the right players, by looking for such players who would not kill the team's carnivores. The government managed to replace seven ministers and ministers in the first two years of government, which is certainly a record. Of course, it's not serious for every winning team. Any team with a winning mentality must be ready for the game at the start of the judge's whistle. The very government of Dr. Mira Cerar is a eloquent example of what happens if a party who has not survived this Parliament has won a day. Instead of solving problems, he deals mainly with setting up a team. The new parties, those who grow up overnight and break into parliament within a few months, do not have audited personnel and teams, so their victory for the country is a great risk. This is similar if I use the parable again, as if before the key game of the Slovenian football team, all professional football players were withdrawn and replaced with sports journalists and commentators. They will certainly know all the tactical solutions, and it is very unlikely that these solutions on the ground will also be realized on the ground and will lead the team to victory. When the second half of Cerar’s government seemed to focus on substantive issues, however, we experienced a new surprise. In the second year, the government took on massive personnel exchanges. If I touched the parable again, I could say, instead of playing the game, Cerara's team refocused on the vegetable repairman, the liquor salesman, or the stadium manager. In particular, in October 2015 the Government dismissed the Chairman of the Management Board of DUTB Nyberg and called off the Chief Executive Director of DUTB Manson. The Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding also relieved the SDH administration in the same month. Thus, only in a bad month did the government of Mira Cerar demand or allow the replacement of the leadership of two state institutions, which together manage as much as €15 billion. Then they followed the NLB, HSE, Darsa, and so on. Even in health care, 88 members of the public health services councils have been replaced and could be listed. Today the government is sitting in wardrobes wondering if this game can still be won in the second half. The president of the government in the dressing room of his players prevents, of course, that after the initials some auto-naked and after a great backlog his team managed to strike a balance on the field. But, Prime Minister, the reality is, unfortunately, different. A few shots on the goal doesn't mean your team will make up for a high backlog and at the end of this game will also win. The budgets adopted for 2017 and 2018 most clearly indicate that Mira Cerar's team is virtually not ready to change its approach even in the next two years, i.e. in the second half. And it is clear that Cerari's government will not do in the last two years of its mandate what any reasonable government would do in the first two years of its mandate. The next two years will, according to our assessment, be a time of lost opportunity, so it is certainly in place to consider whether it would not make sense to replace the selector and the key players. However, if our assessments were not invented or if they were fabricated by the opposition, I would like to reinforce my thinking with concrete information, which is mainly the data of the European Commission, the Slovenian Statistical Office and your government. Look at this scheme that's in front of you. Slovenia is marked with red. What does this scheme say? This is the data of the European Commission. The European Commission has examined the sustainability of the economic and social models of individual countries over the long term. And it is amazing what the European Commission has found; that Slovenia is in the long term, that Slovenia has a long-term economic and social model that is completely incoherent if our policies do not change significantly. This is not my invention, this is a report or a conclusion from the European Commission. This chart and data should be of great concern to us because the government behaves — the czech, the storm is behind us, and we have a time of wonderful opportunities ahead. But the facts are completely different; this is said by the European Commission, not by the Slovenian opposition. Dear Prime Minister, do you not think that facing this challenge should be your key priority?Oh, my God! But we have a feeling that your only goal is to lead this government to the end of the term of office. On the basis of the actions so far, and even less on the basis of the actions of your coalition partners, there is no serious concern for the changes that Slovenia urgently needs. What are the three key threats that threaten Slovenia, according to our assessment, which have made Slovenia so poorly evaluated in the long term? Firstly, we have markedly negative demographic trends; secondly, we have a high public debt and, thirdly, we have an unfriendly business environment. These are three key threats that threaten Slovenia and cause Slovenia to be branded by the European Commission in the long term as you can see on the chart. Let me touch each of these dangers. Negative demographic trends first. The ageing population is not only a Slovenian specialty, but this trend in Slovenia is even more pronounced. Look at these graphs. This government doesn't even realize that there's a big shock ahead of us in the next 10 years. In the next 10 years, there will be 100 000 more citizens in Slovenia who will be over 60 years old. Imagine the tremendous pressure this will put on the health and pension bills! The government is nothing. Next thing. Take a look at this graph of how fertility moves in Slovenia or how many live births are in Slovenia. For every nation that wants to survive, the number 2.1 is the birth number that must be reached if it is to survive in the long run. Currently, in Slovenia, 1.5 children per mother are born. If we want Slovenia's social and economic systems to be sustainable, then 30,000 children should be born in Slovenia every year; in fact, some more than 20,000 are born. This is also a matter of great concern to the government. If we move forward, brain drain. Last year, nearly 15,000 people left the country. And when you look at the demographic structure of these people who left Slovenia, you find that half of them are under 40. This means that this country educates young people, invests in their education, and then does not provide them with a suitable environment for employment; and these young people leave Slovenia. Fifteen thousand people leave Slovenia! This trend is not yet felt and we are not talking about brain draining in general, because we get about the same number of people coming from the former Yugoslav republics. But in the long run, leaving so many young people abroad won't be sustainable. Let me now touch the next danger segment, that's a high public debt. Look at this graph, official information. Particularly worrying is the trend, in 2008 our public debt amounted to 22% of GDP, today it went from over 80 billion to 30 billion in particular. And this high public debt is causing high interest. Look at this graph, our expenditure, how much we will spend in the budget and how much we pay for interest only. For interest, this country pays a thousand million euros, one billion, one thousand million euros! And every year in recent years. With this money, we could build a second track every year. And the longer we delay by reducing our public debt, the longer this figure will be, the longer the tenth of our budget will be practically thrown aside to pay interest. It is also worrying that the government is releasing austerity measures across all reasonable borders. This graph is very eloquent, look at it. In 2012, when our government took up its mandate, there were slightly over 161 000 people employed in the public sector. Then we managed this number through various measures, in particular the unpopular ZUJF, which was also followed by the government of Alenka Bratušek, to trim to 157 000. Look where we are today. Where we were in 2012. In two years, the government of Mira Cerar managed to bring down everything they had worked, worked hard, and worked in previous governments. It's a remarkable success. If I touch the third segment. If I said for the first time – negative demographic trends, secondly – a high public debt, we are now with a third – an unfriendly business environment. According to the Doing Business survey, Slovenia, listen to this, in 119th place in the field of legal certainty for entrepreneurs. In other words, this means payment non-discipline, business fraud and similar matters. Who wants to come to Slovenia if there is such legal uncertainty? Slovenian salaries are still overtaxed compared to other salaries. Above all, the problem is that our administration does not support entrepreneurs in realizing their ideas, but rather their most basic main obstacle. In addition, we have a school system, which has more and more teachers in employment, and according to the OECD, more and more functionally illiterate young people. And a school system that doesn't provide the economy with the right personnel. Dear Prime Minister, here are the key threats and threats that threaten Slovenia. Perhaps it is justified that we expect your government to deal with these very indicators most definitively. In your opening presentation, though, you listed what was good done, but if you ask people, these changes that you list are not easy to feel in the lives of ordinary people. Since you are not seriously dealing with the threats that threaten Slovenia, this already has a negative impact on many specific areas. For example, the lack of measures to combat negative demographic trends, the high public debt and the unfriendly business environment are most clearly reflected in the following areas – the health system, the pension system, the school system, the public administration and the judiciary. If I touch each other a little bit; the health system, we estimate that Slovenia is still a wealthy country, that people will die because of a poor health organisation. Unfortunately, people are dying in the existing health system due to waiting types, corruption and bureaucracy. Unfortunately, we also have such a health system that those who pay or know someone are still getting treatment earlier. It is also true that we have many excellent doctors, nurses and other staff, but most of the medical staff are burned out, and their relationships are poor. All of this, however, affects the quality of health services. Such public health care as we have today is not sustainable. And thank you so much for such public health! Look at this graph, the time of the government of Mira Cerar and the violent battles to reduce waiting lines. I think the graph is very eloquent, it only speaks of those numbers, talking about people waiting over permitted waiting lines. In the concept of health reform measures that we have prepared in New Slovenia, we have advocated better public health, we propose a different way of financing and organising public health. After presenting our concept, some lobbyist organizations accused us of destroying public health. Indeed, it is amazing how far some have gone in reading the positions of current tenants who are exhausting the health treasury. A clear and living example was the final broadcast of the Target, which showed this very control. In Novi Slovenija we want to abolish the monopoly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia over compulsory health insurance. The ZZS would be a new health care provider, i.e. a system regulator, not a money distributor. With our proposal, you can't expect the commendation of the tenants if you cut off their money source. In our opinion, people should have access to doctors, medicines and other health services in the context of treatment regardless of their economic or social situation. People should be treated immediately after diagnosis of the disease and not until months after the disease has progressed significantly and therefore treatment is often unsuccessful and certainly longer and therefore more expensive. The current health system does not provide us with this, so this should be one of the key priorities of Cerara's government in order to do this; but there are no results yet. Pension system; negative trends are also emerging. For the sustainability of the Slovenian pension system, the relationship between employees and pensioners is crucial. Today this ratio is 1.37 to 1, or in particular – 137 employees per 100 pensioners. On the basis of demographic trends, the government also notes in its White Paper that in 2060 the ratio between pensioners and employees will be even worse, meaning that 100 employees will work for 108 pensioners. Without much philosophy and conversion it is clear that Slovenia needs a pension reform; whether Desus breaks or not. I believe that demagogies and false expectations can be very easy, look at this graph. This graph is unforgivable. You can see the ratio in the '80s, back in the '90s; in particular, the red line is very eloquent because the pensioner’s employment ratio was over 3; today it is below 1.5. Persuading people that pension reform is not necessary is the same as telling them – your pensions will continue to fall and there is no longer much likelihood that you can count on a pension; and this must be faced. Uncomfortable, such things must be dealt with. Some of us also say that we should not talk about these things because such things are unpleasant and do not bring political points. But if we want to talk honestly, then these things need to be opened. Every retirement period means that if we live longer, we will have to work longer. However, if we are to extend working time and age at the time of retirement, we must also substantially change the conditions for older workers. If the state wants people to work longer, then it must take into account that people are spent at the end of their working life and must therefore adapt working conditions to this. Someone who worked on a shovel for 40 years is significantly different from someone who did some more administrative work. Therefore, the State, in particular the Government, should allow employers of older workers, in regulating the labour market with tax incentives, at the end of their careers, to redistribute jobs and reduce their workers. Only in this way will pension reform be possible, everything else will be a great rebellion. However, since demographic trends are worrying, a system is also worth considering whereby all pensioners would have the same pension. From the first pension pillar, all pensioners who met the pension requirements would thus receive 600 euros of state pension. As a result, this would also mean that the payment of pension contributions would change; therefore, employees would also have higher net salaries and would continue to be responsible for their pensions of 600 euros. But 600 euros is the limit set by the state as a threshold of poverty, as much as it takes to live a decent life. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, we must ensure that people have a decent life when they retire; pensioners deserve to enjoy the fruits of their work in peace after decades of work. The vast majority of current pensions are too low and do not allow a normal life. Pensions in recent years, especially in times when Desus was in the governments, are actually falling. The new pension reform is necessary to stop the further decline in pensions and to provide people with decent pensions that they can survive with. Another area where there is a negative trend is the school system. Most likely, you all remember famous winged women — learn that you will not have to work. And it was this winged one that caused enormous damage in Slovenia itself. In particular, the young generation were forced to compete for the highest possible formal level of education, while the desire for knowledge was secondary. This is how this graph speaks, that we have received many generations of high school students and students who have studied without knowing what they would like to do in life. The Slovenian education system has thus created a multitude of young people with high education and unfortunately little practical experience. Today, when young people step out of the educational system and get a job, employers are just starting to train them so that they can carry on their own work processes. In vocational education, this country should urgently introduce an effective dual system in which young people would go to school for half a year and they should be trained at work for the second half of the year. Only in this way will the school system produce young people who will be useful to the economy immediately after schooling. However, the dual system must be made interesting for employers as well. A few hours of practical work per week is totally useless for employers, because if the employer wants to organise his work process effectively, it does not help him to have an apprentice available two days a week. Effective training and simultaneous benefit for young people and employers would only be provided for longer-term training. Of course, in the face of all the problems we have in Slovenian education, some netizens still have an unnecessary ideological conflict between private and public schools. I do not understand those who claim that all five primary schools can endanger the functioning of 458 public primary schools. We must also eliminate discrimination as soon as possible when it comes to the payment of a private school programme implementing a publicly recognised programme. I think that this is a constitutional principle, and we must ensure equal pay for equal work. Infrastructural costs are, however, on the shoulders of the owner of the private school. Public administration – another problem that we think is not well organised. The professional career system doesn't work either. Officials don't make progress because of the quality of their work. This undermines trust among people and, above all, does not reward capable people who deserve it. There is no clear line of responsibility in the public administration, virtually no one is responsible for the mistakes. When, at the end of the month, an official who worked hard and worked hard for a month, they also exist in public administration, he gets the same salary as an official who did not only work but also caused damage, it certainly is not conducive to the climate in the public sector. The first step towards a more effective public administration should be a different wage policy. At least a fifth of the salary should be linked to the staff performance and efficiency of the official. In order to implement this measure, a clearer line of responsibility should be established. The second measure should focus more on e-business. There is a great deal of potential for improvement in electronic commerce. Excess standardisation – another problem of Slovenian public administration. Inexplicable sub-legislative acts often lead to different interpretations between the two national authorities of the law. In particular, in the area of spatial, environmental legislation and cultural protection legislation, one state authority in an area is allowed to build and the other officially prohibits it. Both state authorities argue that they are right and that they only implement legislation. There is a long-standing lawsuit and a complaint in the courts which practically blocks the investment, as an investor for the construction of the facility needs the consent of all the authorities. This causes economic damage to Slovenia and is not normal. As a result, the government had to go with a special law to ensure that factory in Styria. If we were a normal country, such a special law would not be necessary because it speaks for itself. We need a public sector that will be at the service of the people. Therefore, the Slovenian public sector needs a different wage policy so that successful public servants can be rewarded and poorly punished. Slovenia must develop a public sector that will support the entrepreneurship, innovation and overall development of its citizens; above all, it must be a public sector of support, not a first obstacle to the realization of citizens' ideas. If I move to the next area, which is also problematic — the judiciary. When we walk on the ground, it is amazing that we have people who are not employed anywhere, who have not inherited anything, but who still drive in cars worth 100,000 euros and live in houses worth half a million euros. From where? How can it be that in Serbia they can effectively confiscate 100 million illegally acquired assets every year; we are talking about a few 10,000 euros?Oh, my God! This is the first thing that people will feel the most that this country will ensure greater justice if thieves and criminals are taken away from what they unjustifiably seized. We also have bankers who have owed 2 000 500 euros to each of us and every citizen; then they lost their memory immediately after the banking system was repaired. Unbelievable. Like the minister, I visited Iceland for a while before him this August. And I talked to people there. With us, people do not trust the institutions of the country because they say they do not condemn or resort to fish at the head where fish stinks; or they do not take care of those who have caused billions of damage. Who will trust such a country? In Iceland, these people are in jail. People have a sense of justice that there is still a right in the country and that those who have caused harm are responsible for it. With us, however, these bankers can still compete shamelessly even for leading public sector functions. Understand who can. In addition, we even have frauds that do not pay contributions to workers and even set up new and new businesses. Ten, fifteen, twenty. Officials, when we passed laws, assure us that we must not write in law, that such people are forbidden to set up a company in more than three years. Why is it possible in Austria that they will be banned for seven years and not for more than three years?Oh, my God! Find out again who can. Regular practice is that you have been waiting in Slovenia for more than 10 years. This is the basic information that must be faced by anyone who is still actively defending the judiciary; but this is not the information that would be on the side of those who speak for the benefit of the judiciary. That's not normal. That is why we need a reform of the judiciary, and we must abandon the patterns of action that are drawn from socialism; it is crucial to increase transparency and efficiency of the judiciary. What am I trying to say? It is necessary to change the way the Council of Justice is appointed so that judges will lose the majority in the Council of Justice, since they now practically appoint themselves by their majority. This would increase the democratic legitimacy of the Council of Justice and, at the same time, the appointment of candidates as judges would no longer appoint themselves. Above all, we must change the way forward, which must be conditioned by a low percentage of judgments falling at a higher level. We must also change the pay policy in court, and the pay of judges must also take into account the complexity of the cases dealt with by a judge. In particular, the probationary mandate of judges should be introduced. Dear Prime Minister, you have been elected to provide people with a normal life. Unfortunately, today we have intensive health care, an economy in a coerced jacket, and young people on their way abroad. Christian Democrats are estimated that in the current composition of the National Assembly it is not possible to form a coalition to build a normal Slovenia for its purpose. What is normal Slovenia? We think that this is Slovenia, which is fairer, so we have in mind, above all, reform of the judiciary and labour law; Slovenia, which has a strong economy, we have in mind mainly tax reform, reform of public administration and education. And we have in mind Slovenia where citizens are provided with security when they are sick, retired or lost their jobs. Here we are thinking of reform of health care, pension reform and, above all, stronger support for families to make more decisions for children. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Given the real economic and social circumstances, it would be best for Slovenia to go to early elections as soon as possible. Further insistence on the current coalition for Slovenia is an additional two lost years, as Slovenia will not be better prepared for key challenges in 2018 than it was in 2014. So many times, the singing political stability can only be a prerequisite for all reforms, but it cannot be a goal in itself. It was mentioned what this government has done. But unfortunately these are primarily things that are running away from themselves that are happening within this system; whether it be one or her government. However, they were not the key, most difficult things to do, which would mean that Slovenia would no longer be marked with red color, as is the case with its long-term sustainability today. If you are the Prime Minister, then think 10, 15 years into the future, not just until your next election. You can have an example here, not conservative, but socialist Schröder in Germany, who has effectively prepared his country for the crisis; unfortunately, he has lost his election. And believe me, if you do the key tasks and, above all, the key reforms that will ensure our eternal sustainability for this country, then this nation will be more grateful to you, even if you lose the next election, than if you win the next election again. Dear Prime Minister, you may even complete this mandate; of course, for the better future of Slovenia, it would certainly be better if you went to early elections tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u13	Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u14	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I will begin with the words of Paul Valéry, which somehow reflect in all the debates so far, that the government loses its charm without abuse. What have we heard so far and what is happening in Slovenia? We have heard presentations of statistics, ours and others, we have heard achievements, the apocalyptic situation before this government took office. Was that really the case? Statistics are always in government and elite power; they can be presented in one way or another. They have a whole state apparatus that's been collecting data from them for months. The opposition and the media have this opportunity to look for and expose the opposite data. If we cross these data that are available, we can see that there are two issues that are typical of Slovenia. For the first time, it is a non-transparent recruitment of non-negative, chronic and different relationships, which is the biggest problem for the functioning of institutions in Slovenia. And secondly, the kidnapping of the legislative process and the rule of law. Of course, it depends on what view we have — from the top down or from the bottom down. If we look from above down what the government does, then everything is good and presents the best results. But if we ask people in public opinion polls, in qualitative research, they are unhappy. What do we see? We note that instead of experts, the government employs crisis pyre experts and to present to the public what is going on in the country. And in front of us there is a fight between fellow students from the Faculty of Social Sciences; one decided on journalism, the other on piranha. And those who have chosen the path of the pharaoh now have access to all the data in the country and represent it as their theories would be desirable. On the other hand, we have few investigative journalists trying to show what is really going on in the country. And this fight is ahead of us. Why are people unhappy? There are many reasons, I will point out three deeper reasons for having such a situation in Slovenia. The first reason is the functioning of the authorities, namely the relationship between the branches of government. The legislative branch of power that we represent is taken over by the executive branch of power. The laws that come to Parliament are voted as the government wishes. The problem I've raised several times, the SDH frame. We have warned that the people who have applied and have been proposed by the government to this place do not meet the conditions for problems in the performance of their functions. And that's exactly what happened. Nevertheless, Parliament has confirmed such people. What awaits us in the future? Yesterday we learned that the Minister of Health and the Government had not been able to agree with the Health Union, it would be a matter of further coordination first, and then the proposal coming into Parliament for confirmation would be determined by the percentage of the match. However, it will have to be confirmed by Parliament. And this is what I have repeatedly pointed out to the President of the Government that the government is transferring responsibility to Parliament and thus rejecting its responsibility to hold Members accountable for what the government will do. And here's the takeover of this kind of branch of power. What about the judiciary? The judiciary has a problem that we stress on the MVK and on the Justice Committee. The pressure on the judiciary is the authority that has to build its own good name. We have an election for constitutional judges ahead of us. What pressure will there be to elect such judges? Will it happen in the same way as at the previous meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, when there was pressure to elect members for certain institutions? We'll see what the pressure will be on the judicial branch of power. Then there's the fourth branch of power, these are the media. Do the media work independently? Battle for supervisory authorities in state media. Private media are controlled by entrepreneurs who own such media. Is objective reporting possible? The theory is that the only solution is independent internet media. And then there's the fifth branch of power. Who's the fifth branch of the district? The fifth branch of government are financiers, multinationals, lobbyists, informal networks. The President of the Government said that Slovenia is dominated by strong lobbying. The President of Parliament said that there are five lobbyes in the Modern Centre. The Minister of Health said that health care is controlled by the lobby. Let them already tell which lobby is this, and start fighting them. The fifth branch of power is very important. And all of this affects the economy that is supposed to save Slovenia. Encourage the economy — yes, but to what extent?Oh, my God! Is it the one that works with the country and is being fueled from the country or the economy that creates added value? That's the question that's before us. What is happening to companies in Slovenia? Tale cases of Paloma and Adrie. An even more eloquent case ahead of us, Gorenje. Panasonic, as a strategic partner, stepped down from taking over. Why? Because, it appears, non-transparent data leaks. Another reason is the functioning of the rule of law, for which Parliament is responsible. How are laws adopted in Parliament? We see that if the opposition proposes a law or an amendment, it is rejected. This is also the last case in the adoption of the budget. The second pattern of conduct is that the law is so amended that it cannot be enforced at all. And the third case that we witnessed is that the opposition's proposal is rejected, and then, in a similar form, the coalition's law is being tried. Of course, comments on the opposition's laws are that they are not systematic, that they are not consistent with the local community and so on. But that's exactly the kind of law we adopt. We have witnessed this in the last budget. We do not have a fiscal council, we do not know where certain funds will go, for example for 2TKK; and non-compliance with the public sector. We've accepted the budget. Such a budget should not be adopted in an emergency. Does the rule of law work? In what way? We are approaching the model of constitutionalism when everything depends on the Constitutional Court. He puts all the solutions that the government can't do to the Constitutional Court. And that's why the battle for the Constitutional Court is that there will be people there who will make the decisions that someone wants. I say we have a fluid legal state that crawls out of our hands. And we must fight to restore the rule of law; and first of all it is here in Parliament; what laws and how we will adopt them. And the third problem of governance of the state and state property. What's this all about? Three pillars of state property – SDH, DUTB and the demographic fund. For the first two, we know, over the last two years, constant human resources problems, persistent transparency problems and the non-transparent sale of funds to unknown customers, so that those who have caused a bank hole can now buy businesses for well hidden money. The battle ahead of us is the battle for the demographic fund. Who and how will manage, who will be appointed to key positions, well paid; and who and how will control the demographic fund. Here again, democracy, the power of the rule of law and the pressure of the lobbies that have been mentioned will appear. Everything also relates to strategic investments, if I mention only the second track, Luca Koper, the interest of foreign countries and the overtaking of foreign countries. Models that are known abroad are not used in us. Why do the Austrians know why the Italians can build it themselves? Why must we follow the most expensive path and path where corruption is possible – in a public-private partnership? What does 2TKK do, who controls it, who hides behind it, how much will it cost us? For each section, will we establish a new company with well-paid services? Is that a transparent policy? What are the investments in the future? If I end up at this point. The damage was already done. Will we allow this damage to continue?Oh, my God! Direct and indirect damage was caused to people. Indirect damage by borrowing and creating a bank hole. The greatest damage to the young generation, which has gone abroad, goes abroad, sees perspective only abroad. But those with us, yes, we have so many more jobs; but some. Quality and quantity are important. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. These young people cannot create a family, because these kinds of cities that we have created are places that are paid only for certain daily hours, just for a certain business, just to combine several different parts into one working relationship. Such a work is not worth the dignity of young people. An example of Uber who would come to them, how a young person could create a job under such conditions. To conclude with the thought which had grown stronger in Iceland, where in 2011 I taught about taking over the country and we discussed the issue in Iceland, which had already acted and absorbed knowledge from the world, what and how to do. This is when the tanks, made by strong lobbyists and state institutions, which are subject to these lobbyings are broken up; and when the clouds break open, then the people's will remains on the one hand and on the other hand the forces of informal groups and those who are subject to them. The only way out is a democracy that has to win. But where does democracy begin? Here, in this House. The first lacumus paper will be a vote on the next human resources changes and a vote on what is going on with the public sector, health and everything else, which will be transferred to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, on her behalf by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministerial assembly! Allow me to use the words of the ancient Chinese philosopher and teacher Confucius as an introduction to the position of the modern centre Party Group. Two thousand 500 years ago, he said the following, quote: “If you run into a man worth talking to, and don’t do that, you lost him. If you run into a man who's not worth talking to, but you're still talking to him, you've lost your words. The wise man loses neither man nor word." End of quote. Today we will, and we are already talking a lot, and the question is, what are we going to say? Even more so, the question is what will we do at the end of this day. About 90 of us are registered to the word, 16 hours we'll exchange words. You, citizens and citizens, will be the one and only one who will judge what you have heard, what words we have given you and what these words really mean to you. Some words today will be well-meaning, respectful, positive; words that will talk about solutions that will talk about concrete actions about a vision for the future. There will be many words, which we are used to in this room, which will carry within us aggression, humiliation, anger; words of pain, frustration, manipulation, even instigation, humiliation. All of this, citizens and citizens, will be judged by you today. Just as you will judge who feeds you simply and only by words, who uses words to describe what is done and what is planned for the future. We know that the opposition is the one that depends primarily on words because it does not have the power, because of its mission, to do what it says directly. That words are in some way the strongest adut of political games, we are aware of that, we respect that. We also know that the ruling parties on our shoulders bear responsibility for the actions we have taken and for the actions we have not accepted, for what we have done wrong, with your words and your eyes; and for what we have not done wrong, but for what we have done with words in this way. But all of us, the opposition and the coalition, will be exposed at the end of the day to the effects of the words achieved, but, above all, to the actions of their confidence and support of the account, the electoral body, our citizens and citizens, there is no one else. This is part of our game, we can and we have to deal with ourselves in some way; but people are the ones who will judge who and how they do it. Everything from a pre-election period to a modern centre party is only one thing – that we are preparing, that we are also adopting and following elections, policies on which we will be able to build new foundations. The foundations of modern, creative, innovative, competitive, internationally recognizable, especially to people and to the environment of sensitive societies and countries. The countries that her people respect, which are trustworthy, are safe and considerate, attentive to hardships and also to welfare. Like the government, we have confirmed Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party with our current responsible work of this purpose all the time. The “we” with whom most of our colleagues and colleagues sitting here in the hall attributed us a period of time similar to semi-permanent Alpine milk. Those “we” who today demean us some in a mustache and send us back to our former jobs as soon as possible. The “we” we have gathered from all the ends and places of our dear country, which we have brought with us in this place knowledge, a different culture, a different attitude towards people, also to politics and, above all, a different responsibility – responsibility for the future. The "we" we were not and we still don't care what happens to our country and our people. Those “we” who have grown up as some kind of political self-governance, determined, stubborn, often idealistic naive; yet always upright and invincible in a common desire for a just, just, solidarity, successful and modern Slovenia in the future. Today's interpretation session will be an indisputable meeting of big words, even in a way, such as people are rightly satisfied and tired. Why? Because they don't have any of them. I have no doubt that this will also be a session of great memories of the past, in which some of you are lost and some are probably stuck there forever. This session will therefore primarily, blue, according to Confucius' words, mirror the caller, this is the Slovenian Democratic Party, so that citizens can look at what you offer to see for themselves and to reflect on your own image today, the weight of your people's words and your past actions. For the Party of the Modern Centre, today's meeting will be an opportunity for you, citizens and citizens, at a good half of the term, before the next elections with words, the results of the work already done and with commitments to continue to ensure that our only mission is to accept and implement responsible, good and forward-looking solutions for the better tomorrow of all of us and our countries. Our common denominator was and remains Slovenia – Slovenia of the future. A story of success and example. Yes, in the Modern Centre Party, we want such a story to be written in a uniform, coherent, cooperative way, both politically and at a broader social level, because we believe that the true value of wisdom, in addition to people and words, is only the result of good decisions and actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u17	Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, Your Honor, the Government! Maybe it would be best if I turned this counter around, because I'm talking about the government's interpretation, not the State Council's interpretation. And I'll probably do that. Can't do it, too bad. The reasons why we are Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party 27. 9. 2016 entered into interpolation, violated the Constitution, laws, coalition agreement, poor governance with the State and state property, and increasingly lagging behind with comparable European Union countries. Interpellation is written analytically, according to the departments, it is based everywhere on facts, on specific breaches of the Constitution, on specific breaches of the laws, violations of the decisions of the European Court of Justice, violations of public promises and commitments of the President of the Government and ministers, and breaches of the provisions of the Coalition Treaty. All claims are verifiable. We allow the possibility that perhaps in the two months since the interpellation was made, perhaps a lot has changed or improved; perhaps very little has been done. However, there have been many new facts that only strengthen the validity of our interpellation; even yesterday, when these acts, which can also be seen as major political and social shocks, may have occurred. It's been two years since the government was appointed. In the electoral campaign and before it, we listened to statements about how, after the elections, everything would be different if a group of unknown and politically more or less unobstructed, professional candidates gathered around Mir Cerar were given a mandate. In time, the media machine began to promote the idea that had the most pressing effect on the selected prime minister's candidate in the network of old party elites. The emphasis was on ethics, respect for the rule of law, faith in the infallibility, inviolability and independence of the judiciary, on fairness, modesty, in short, on the characteristics of the selected candidate for the media project. And the media machine was on-line at the time. Just in case, the staged trial against Janša in the case of Patria with an explicit judgment that put those political objectives in public only underscoring them. Shortly after the start of the campaign, Janez Janša, the holder of the Slovenian Democratic Party list, was sent to continue his sentence. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, many of them were sneered and other campaigning electoral competitors were left with only an excuse for an independent judiciary and for the functioning of the rule of law; in short, there are no exceptions for anyone. The prison politician, however, was the most popular media and political phrase of the time. But Cerar's coalition started in violation of the Constitution, laws and covenants immediately after the elections when the National Assembly was established. With the final impeachment of John Janša, who was said to have been in prison at the time, the coalition was engaged in the first few months. Her goal, however, was the only serious topic in the National Assembly. The media has been very unanimous in supporting this, too. Legal experts, former and current professors of law, judges, constitutional judges of this media and coalition, or Cerar's obsession, were more or less unanimously opposed; also the Law-Legislative Service of the National Assembly. However, it was not enough that the President of the Commission of Mandate, Dr. Horvat, in agreement with or under prior agreement with the President of the National Assembly, Dr. Brglez, would not engage a special group of lawyers composed of Pirnat, Ribičič, Zalar, Bauk and Ude. This resulted in a victory which none of the above would have signed and which gave rise to the mandate of the Commission and the National Assembly to determine the termination of the term of office of Mr Janez Janša. The coalition and its support environment have also brought this process down. The expected benefit was too great to give up this nonsense. The goal is to devote resources, says a centuries-old proverb. The legal size of the coalition – Cerar, Horvat, Brglez, who received the status of professional politicians at the elections – therefore decided immediately at the beginning of the mandate to knowingly violate the Constitution and the electoral laws. In the meantime, there was a judge, a SMC Member, who later informed one of the social networks of the public how he imagined respecting the Constitutional Court. Let me just remind you that at this very moment, the human resources procedures for the appointment of new judges of the Constitutional Court are in progress. We'll see how it ends. Both trials, based on the indictments in the Patria case and the political decision to terminate the mandate, were infamously concluded, one at the Supreme Court, the other at the Constitutional Court. The Indian conviction failed, and an attempt to terminate the mandate was also unsuccessful. There is still no excuse for causing personal and political harm; we are not even talking about anything else. Of course, it has its legitimacy, modern advocates are not ashamed of it, and in fact they are no different from those who massacred countries of the former country after World War II. Therefore, conscious breaches of the Constitution continue, a few days ago, the coalition adopted fictional budgets for the coming years, without one of the laws by which the budget was balanced and replaced by a deficit. The coalition rejected this law on a proposal from the Government because it was not suitable for further consideration; it did, however, adopt the budget without a single amendment of any item. Any ignorant citizen can see that there is something wrong with the budgets: and it really is not. Given the current situation, the deficit is significantly higher, indeed significantly larger than it has been shown, and significantly exceeds that permissible magical 3%. The European Commission's conclusion that the budget is not prepared in accordance with the criteria of the European Union is also expected and is also objective. It would not be bad if the President of the Government, ministers and coalition Members read again before the decision is taken a magnetogram of the speeches of the President of the Government and the Minister when the budgets are presented. That was October 5th this year. The budgets were also adopted without the opinion of the Fiscal Council — the body enshrined in the Constitution. There is no organ, and the government does not even exist and does not even try to have it. The former Minister of Finance of Cerarov, Dr. Maramor, brought to the National Assembly a proposal for candidates for the fiscal council and he attributed to these candidates, which parties or options are close by his candidates. The government proposal has failed and the candidates in the new tender have not even submitted to the National Assembly. The procedure's been terminated. There's no new procedure. And here I have to respond to the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, who said that the Government has also negotiated with the opposition about the candidates for the fiscal world. There was not a single meeting for our Group of Members before the proposal for candidates for the Fiscal Council was formulated. Not one. Only after the Government tabled a proposal to the National Assembly did the Minister come to tell us which candidate would be closer to our party. In this way, Mr President of the Government, it will be difficult to come up with a proposal for which you need 60 votes. Despite the absence of a fiscal world, the government has come to the National Assembly claiming that the budget is prepared in accordance with the fiscal rule. She gave herself a positive price. This respects constitutionality and the rule of law within the mandate of the Government, which is governed by a constitutional lawyer. If they had a fiscal council, the budget for 2017 and 2018 could not have been invested in the legislative process at all because the fiscal council would have rejected them. Even less so, such budgets would be adopted after another law had withdrawn, which was an integral part of all those numbers that were written there. We have obstructed the final adoption of budgets by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the opposition, because it was not worth insisting and giving legitimacy to illegal action. No comments were received. Neither the ministers nor the coalition spoke much, but when you typed, you were very steep, without error. And this happens whenever there is an illegal or unconstitutional victory to be confirmed. Of course, the problem is not only the 2017 and 2018 budgets, but also the 2015 final account is Cerara's government's victory with many mistakes and fictitious records. The Court of Auditors has found that the records do not count that the property is not properly booked and so on; but the coalition has also unanimously confirmed this act. Apparently, the government and the coalition do not recognise the Court of Auditors' audits, ignore them. And now I am just asking the President of the Government how can we expect progress, efficient, predictable and transparent work, economic growth, real measures if everything is built on violations of the Constitution and laws, lies or fictions?Oh, my God! The following example of a violation of the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has already decided in the mandate of the Cerara government that it is necessary to ensure the same, that is 100%, the financing of public programmes to private schools as well. The decision contained a date, one year, which expired on 9 January of this year. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned that this unconstitutionality must be eliminated. We have also proposed a bill twice, but nothing has changed. The law fell by the established method. In April this year, the President of the Government visited the Škof institutions, and then he promised the Metropolitan to Mr Stanislav Zoret, the church community and the Slovenian public the near-improvement of the law, as the law was supposed to be ready. It's been more than half a year since then, but nothing's happened yet. The cameras are down, the event remains permanent, and Prime Minister Cerar acts as if he had a memory of a goldfish. The law is not yet in the National Assembly; it is not yet there. In view of the deliberate or planned failure to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, we have recently also filed an interpretation against Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, in which, in five points, we have given her the responsibility for non-action and delaying the preparation of the amendment of the law, the responsibility for violating the Constitution, the suspension of due conduct and non-compliance with the constitutional order and the creation of inequalities before the law and the responsibility for losing confidence in the institutions of the rule of law and the social state. And do you know what Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič wrote in response to the statement from the interpretation? “I completely reject the perceptions resulting from that interpolation as unfounded at all points.” This obvious lie was written in response by the Minister of Education, although she has not yet submitted the law and, with the strong support of Members, has remained in the position. She was supported by all the government, constitutional lawyer Mir Cerar at the head of the coalition and several other supporters. Such is the ethical poverty of this mandate. But let's ask ourselves, or ask yourself in the government coalition, in the government, what with such a reply, which is a definitive lie, the minister tells everyone who is being educated, as well as other citizens. A lie is a value; if a minister can lie and remain in a position, anyone can lie. Let's ask ourselves, what does the President of the Government say about such arrogance? He must think: We can afford anything, everything. We are the constitution and the laws, we are natural law. A proposal from one of the parliamentary groups to amend the Constitution was considered at the plenary session of the National Assembly days ago. It was the admission of the right to drinking water to the Constitution. The meeting was attended by the President of the Government and 13 ministers; the President of the Government also took the time to address him. When we discussed the budget and the accompanying acts that the Government can only propose, there was not a single minister in the Chamber who would answer Members' questions. At times, though, the minister of finance came, and she had so many other tasks that most of the time she was quiet. So much for the government's priorities; mostly time for photo-terms and painting; but when it comes to defending your own proposals, it goes away quickly. One or two days ago, the National Assembly also considered the Interim Report of the Investigative Commission investigating the bank hole. I specifically pointed out to the college that the government had not announced the time, although this would have been expected. The President of the Cerar Government is a well-known fighter against all illegalities, he has a lot to do with ethics, respect for the Constitution and laws; this, after all, is enshrined in the introduction and several other parts of the coalition contract. We rightly expected his performance, his address, because it was an investigation into the biggest crimes in Slovenian history that swallowed up about €5 billion; but there was no government response. The president of the National Assembly, Brglez, said that this was a matter for parliament. The theme of the mission was also water. There's the Prime Minister and 13 ministers, and there's no one here, and it's the biggest crime of this country. But what if Mother Zdenka said that every piece of shit wasn't a crime? If the President of the Government could not, Minister Klemenčič could have stepped in, the former President of the Commission for the Investigation of Corruption. He also claimed to be a staunch ethical and anti-corruption fighter, who not so far back investigated and searched the bank's hole. His Senate also adopted a special report at that time. Nevertheless, the Commission's current chief for the prevention of corruption, Klemenčič, with the Pogačnik Commission of the week investigating the bank hole, refused to cooperate. At the hearings, he answered cheaply, he was covering up the results, he wouldn't turn the report over to the investigative commission. This means that his anti-corruption commission has decided decisively to defend the grey eminence of banking. This was then an extremely bad message to the Slovenian public, only to the banking underworld. Taisti Klemenčič is now Minister of Justice and has also drafted a law to deprive the National Assembly of the possibility of establishing investigative commissions. The investigation of the bank hole, the TEC and similar large stories, would transfer the unfinished transitions to a government where investigations were to be undertaken or conducted by former retired officials of various institutions. Those few options that the National Assembly has had would have taken away from the National Assembly in order to make it easier for the affairs to be suppressed. The law enforcement service considered the law to be unconstitutional and therefore stuck in the legislative process. Klemenčice would also become a supervisor or investigator of investigations under this law, in fact a sort of informal leader of the Commission to prevent corruption. And with the new Law on State Administration, he's already prepared a team at the Ministry for this project. A few days ago, Minister Klemenčič also returned from his field trip to Iceland. There, three years ago, all banking-related legal proceedings were completed, banks were cleaned up and actors closed; political authorities also fell. It only took two years. The situation in Iceland is normalizing because the old burdens are gone. But we haven't taken the investigation seriously yet. It's likely that there'll be some early lapses. Another special specialised unit will be set up, folded once or twice, replaced several times by the management of the institutions and authorities investigating the bank hole, and the grey eminence of banking will be absolutely on the safe side. Well, I am, and there's only one person being convicted of some petty misdemeanor, for which he's already settled all obligations; but they're marginals. But with us, neither the President of the Government nor the Minister will speak in the report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry; they do not wish to be defined until the conclusions and conclusions of the National Assembly. They're not proposing anything, and the government hasn't proposed anything to make things right, and so on. Not to speak, it is not in the public interest; it is in the interest of those who have placed them in office. The grey eminences of banking remain, thanks to them, the most protected state secret. Soft legs are also carried by investigators who revolve around controversial cases and in a way that does not bring decisive action, solutions and sanctions. Otherwise, how to understand pre-election messages and records in the coalition treaty on ethics, respect for the rule of law, equality before the courts, justice and so on, if the debate on the bank gap is being debated and Cerar for the Minister of Justice has chosen a person who, as the most responsible officer of the Commission for the prevention of corruption, is responsible for the violation of eight laws, three regulations and several other regulations. A person who did not want to explain to the Commission the information on his assets, who did not want to submit invoices for the construction of his own house, who refused to reply, whether his Senate of the Commission to prevent corruption was also the one who used Adrie Airways' cheap airline tickets, who in the application to the National Assembly denied the company of his wife who did not want to report on how much business with state-owned companies was concluded by his wife Nina Zidar Klemenčič during his management of KPC and so on. Are these the criteria on which Miro Cerar chose the Minister of Justice?Oh, my God! Mr Štefanec's claim at one of the meetings in the National Assembly that Klemenčič stayed with the Commission to prevent corruption with the fungi of illegality infested with shoes, which is evident from this. However, the data leaks daily. Yesterday it was said that Nina Zidar Klemenčič, the wife of Goran Klemenčič, had cashed almost 900 000 euros for transactions related to the Factor Bank. Until recently, the bank has been in a programmed liquidation, now attached to the DUTB, and the cost of this decision will cost the country an additional 50 million. Only a little less is cashed annually by a contract with Nova Ljubljanska Banka also the predecessor of Goran Klemenčič at the head of the Commission to prevent corruption – Drago Kos. The period Praprotnik, which previously investigated the bank hole at KPK with Klemenčič and probably also met the grey eminences of banking, received an excellent paid service at Nova Ljubljanska Bank as soon as he resigned from the post of Vice-President of the Commission to prevent corruption. Probably earns a lot more than the President of the Republic of Pahor or the President of the Government of Cerar. It is still there, although according to some information the current Anti-Corruption Commission is expected to find that this is an ethically controversial employment. The brother of the head of the NPU or the Special Prosecutor's Office, Harry Furlan, also earned a similar amount by selling orthopedic devices to one of the hospitals. After disclosure, the company was immediately closed overnight; the media seemed to notice nothing. They have estimated that disclosure is not in the public interest. What, though, can we think of the sums of about EUR 800,000 that flow into private pockets? Who thinks of anything, maybe? [[…]] I won't go on. When the most responsible for the prosecution of banking crime – Furlan, Majhenič and Kozina – was made public at the press conference in spring that they were kept in the biggest banking abyss, the New Ljubljana Bank, no longer than the goalkeeper, nothing happened. There was no shock statement by the President of the Government, not Minister Klemenčič, nor Minister Györkös; no predictions of heads flying at the National Investigation Office, the Special Prosecutor's Office, SDH, NLB, no forecasts of legislative change, absolutely nothing. It's a daily event. Investigators, however, seem to have found an alibi for slowing down and delaying the investigation. You do not think that investigations into a bank hole are one systematic mockery from the public and two-faced conduct. Why is it still only spoken in general and not about specific names? On top of that, Cerar, Klemenčič, Kos, previously Simona Habič, now Vid Doria is teaching us about Greece, about transparency, selling stories about corrupts in the National Assembly and similar stories. It's just a reality. Just a case of what happens if you don't spell it right. Klemenčič's Anti-Corruption Commission initiated proceedings against one of the mayors because in one of the municipalities, the company in which the director was a member of the district office received a business. Neither the mayor nor the mayor were on board, and the judge found 20 violations in court, each with a fine of €400, amounting to €8,000. As Klemenčič's father-in-law renews his private castle with the public funds of the Ministry of Culture, which, like in the above case, is obtained by someone from public funds following a public invitation to tender, Klemenčič, as the then head of the KPK, has not initiated any investigation and no proceedings before the court. Let me remind you that Klemenčič's father-in-law, Franz Zidar, received EUR 154 000 only in 2013 at the invitation of the Ministry of Culture to rebuild its Lemberg Castle, which was about 10% of all the funds awarded for this purpose. These were not the only funds, but together governments have allocated more than €380,000 to the private owner of the castle since 2009. Much, if we know that there is no money for rebuilding major castles, which are even monuments of national importance. At the time when the Minister of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court annulled two decisions from the time when KPK was the head, for violating human rights in the proceedings it conducted. But Prime Minister Miro Cerar still trusts him. What is more than a complete deviation from ethics, the rule of law and justice, from the principle of equal treatment. At the beginning of 2015, Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič prepared a mini judicial reform, which forced more or less the adoption of Greek recommendations, according to some ethical rules, which no serious country in the European Union is legally in law; he also announced major changes or judicial reform by the end of last year. We are now the end of 2016. He really suggested a few little things, but not reform. The Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals and the citizens' proposal with more than 5,000 signatures have been rejected. During his time as minister, he also got rid of some scandalous statements. When a notarised record came on the day of the statement by the President of the High Court of Masles that Janša should be fucked, and when she received the epilogue of the Škrlec case at the Attorney General's Office, he said in the National Assembly that he could not act against Maslesa and would not act against Fischer. But when things got complicated with Bavčar, he said they'd be flying their heads in court if there was any wear and tear. It is more than clear that Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič has no criteria or criteria; they are only ours or yours; justice, constitutionality, legality are only measured by natural law. The time for change will come. The Government is also delaying the implementation of directives, regulations, other acts of the European Commission and the European Council. A number of rules are adopted only in the event of threats by financial penalties, even though a longer period of time is set for the adoption of such rules – at least a year, two years, for three years. Worse still, the government does not even have such rules in its normative programme. If I say domestically, it's a business plan. When the Deadlines suddenly arrive, however, the law happens following an emergency procedure, and the government explains this by threatening difficult remedial consequences for the country. Two years ago, three years ago nothing; and then the hard-to-repar consequences for the country, so the government explains. We have also recently discussed the interpretation of the Ministry of Health of Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc. For a whole series of readings — from corruption, from wrongdoing, from political recruitment, from extension of waiting periods — the coalition has been able to find that they do not hold others, former governments and so on to blame; although daily facts and data speak differently. The Minister is unable to understand it from the point of view of the Medical Chamber, the medical union, the work of members of the coalition and also the public. But nothing happens. The President of the Government trusts her, the coalition MPs, even those who know how to say that the government in the ministry and consequently in health is a complete mess, voted against the resolution. The question is whether you really want to improve the health situation. The doctor's statement is only part of the problem. The main problem is the silent majority who need medical care, which is standing in waiting rooms, too long rows for a first check or surgery. It'll be too late for a lot of people. Unfortunately, these people don't rise up, they don't protest, but it's their health, human rights, and also human rights. Health rights have been paid in advance as a kind of subscription, as a biocommunist for the time and conditions when health care or care is needed. What helps patients with their solidarity socialist medical checkout, where they have tens of thousands of euros loaded, when they are unable to undergo magnetic resonance, a specialist examination, radiation or surgery when they need it?Oh, my God! To whom is this solidarity intended? Lobbies, different Mark Medicals and other similar projects that stole medical rights or services from residents and paid doctors? And these artificial chains charge aids, drugs, equipment with three to ten times the purchase price, serve with incentives for investments, and with other criminal receptions exhaust or take, steal money from the health treasury. And nobody gets hurt. Until today, though, the data has been known for some time now, nothing has moved in the area of health care. Only one company, the brother of the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Furlan, was abolished. Investigators and judges act like they can't turn around. They'll get what kind of porter they want, but it's no longer going, not in banks or in health care. And a few more words about the drama of kidnapping Korean boys. The courts have found a violation of the Constitution and laws, but Anja Kopač Dark does not give up. Her parents from social work centers went so far as to limit their children’s meeting with their old parents more closely than the worst criminals in prison. Contacts are allowed for an hour and a half per month, under the supervision of experts at the Centre for Social Work. As we have heard, more or less are all from the SD; and they are alert to ensure that old parents and children are not forgotten. On top of that, the children were apparently also baptized, given a new name, and perhaps even separated. The Minister's second interpellation has already been filed. Perhaps the decision of the National Assembly will be different this time, since natural law cannot continue to be exercised, human rights trampled, and families destroyed. Once such capable tyrants must be removed from political and professional functions. This is not only a social work centre, but also for those officials who, with their decisions, in this case, I mean an information officer, or with insufficient activity, as seen by the Ombudsman, contribute to the breakdown of legal and social health and families. During the migration crisis, the government provided various charters of services, over-the-standard care for illegal refugees, detected no terrorists, violated international agreements, rules, suspended Schengen. No warnings have been received, and those who have been warned have been declared stateless by Prime Minister Cerar. Now the government's inconsistent work is coming up with an account. The location of the migrant centres and the accommodation of those migrants who will be returned from European countries are being sought in an icy fashion. The government won't say the numbers, but it won't be small if you're looking for capacity for more than ten thousand people. What is the expected burden on Slovenia? How much worse will security, increase crime, prolong waiting lines? There are no answers from the government, but there are protests from citizens. The government has responded to the allegations from our interpretation with a few sentences, one or two here. She wrote: “The claim from interpolation does not hold. Thesis for the amendment of the Constitution is prepared." Or: “The claims of interpolation are inaccurate and misleading, and the government also insists on the principle of zero tolerance for corruption.” Such or similar phrases are repeated almost a hundred times in the government’s response. But we all know the health situation, as new and new and even worse news comes daily — waiting times, heart surgery, orthopedic devices, stenti. At the Ministry of Labour, it's the same story, the same story in other departments. Nothing moves in the area of health care. Ten. 12. When the Minister has to submit the promised reforms, it will be any time. Except for the new affairs of other information about what activity there is. The government boasts of political stability, participation in the Economic and Social Council, profession, trade unions, civil society. And the allegations hold you back? The answer is no. No government has ever changed ministers like underpants before, and that's what they do. However, ministers are still Goran Klemenčič, Maja Makovec Brenčič, Anja Kopač Dark and Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc. No government in its composition has suffered ministers and state councillors who have been involved in abuses and criminal acts that have unduly charged themselves with double travel costs, which have illegally paid various allowances, proven to have stolen, and in a disputed manner cashed enormous fees. This one has them and trusts them. Ethics is fully devalued, the rule of law and the principle of equality as well. Cerara was devastated by the Economic and Social Council. It's what the employers got out of it a while ago. At the time of the biggest migration crisis, police officers, now doctors, are threatening to trade unions in the public sector, and the government says that everything is in order in the country. In response, the government also praised the results. She wrote: "In the first two years, the government under the leadership of Mir Cerar managed to increase economic growth, reduce the indebtedness of Slovenian companies, reduce public financial deficits, create surpluses, reduce unemployment rates, increase the return of state-owned companies, ease lives for weaker ones, eliminate administrative burdens and so on. Let us take a look at some of these claims. Several factors affect economic growth, one of which is export – the government's contribution is zero. There is little State investment, and then only private sector investment affects growth. The drawback of funds from the current financial perspective has fallen, the report is in the National Assembly and the higher consumption may have been most affected by migrants. The indebtedness of Slovenian companies is expected to be reduced, but lowering interest rates costs is a global trend. The fiscal deficit, the general trends in the European Union and the world, this is economic growth, is a general one. The actions of the government of Janez Janša are working; however, none of the actions of this government can be listed by the government. Unfortunately, the budget is also fictitious; the deficit data is not supported, as I said before, by the European Commission's negative assessment. The government says it's reduced unemployment by over 17,000, but the question is, which one holds it? 8 000 people leave the country every year, says they are not burdened by these records; at least 12,000 are day-to-day migrant workers, especially in Austria; more than 3,000 have been employed by the government in the public sector, which costs at least €180 million. However, according to the government data you have in response to our interpretation, 16 000 806 people have been employed; virtually everything that is expected to be reduced in the employment agency is due to the tax registers. That's the result. And now the praise of this reduced unemployment is probably no special achievement. The administrative measure has taken all that is achieved by this government, the introduction of tax boxes. Praise the profitability of state-owned companies. In the 2017 and 2018 budgets, there is a substantial increase in recapitalisation expenditure, i.e. the coverage of loopholes in state assets such as dividend revenues, indicating that the management of state assets is catastrophic. Now, the question is, who are we guarding this state silver for, who is serving with it, if the state only has expenses with it? Let's say the quality of management, the connection of Factor Bank and Probank to DUTB will cost 50 million. This government recapitalised Adrio Airways with more than three million and sold it for 100,000 euros to an anonymous tax oasis, the event with Paloma, DUTB, SDH. It's just one stunt with administrations and supervisors. It's all about high wages and rewards. Everyone only fights for advisory and pear contracts. After that, they get grapes from lawyers and counseling agencies. They order and translate studies of controversial and illegal decisions as much as you want, and the money runs out. But the MPs shouldn't be asking questions or hearing or seeing anything. The government does not answer the questions, and others explain banking and business rules in their own way. The bigger the hole, the bigger the bank or some other secret. With regard to making life easier for the socially weak, the values for the casual forces or other professions are not likely to make it easier for them. Mortgage on social welfare is also not about making life easier for these people. There is also no relief for transporters, tax collectors for young farmers. But you hunt for various scavengers, candlesticks, small vineyards, and so on. I could even count it or that'll be enough. You can record a hundred more times that our interpretation claims do not hold that they are misleading; but the data are undeniable. To conclude, I'll only mention one. Slovenia was in front of the Baltic States and the Visegraj Group in 2008 after the purchasing power of the population with a jump in front of all the Eastern members of the European Union. However, since 2009, the only member of the list, whose purchasing power has plummeted by 6 percentage points, has increased significantly in all others. Our Czechs are already ahead, the Poles are close, and if such a situation persists for a long time, we will fall to the level of the countries in which tribal wars are raging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u19	The text shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franz Jurša, on her behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u20	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, I welcome you! Good afternoon. At the time of the last interpretation in the Desus Group, we said that the behaviour of the applicants is unproductive and completely irresponsible to our country. By constantly putting interpellations against ministers and ministers, and now against the whole government, it appears that you may be completely indifferent to this country. Bury the work of this government, its administration. In the last week, you have asked more than 100 questions from the ministry, not to mention that we are already sitting on the seventh interpretation of this mandate; at least one is still ahead of us. I wish it was the last one; but I'm sure it won't. I understand you have every right as an opposition to such acts. Control of power is your legitimate right, but you've gone across the board now. You prevent the normal work of the government, prevent the changes that we are all trying to make; and thus block the normal work of the parliaments as well. You're artificially creating extraordinary situations that are not really there. My dear colleagues and colleagues, I think the crisis is gone, the country is getting better; and this has been the last three years. All of this is also demonstrated by the release of strict austerity measures. Does the fact that we are doing well and heading in the right direction hurt you? However, I must say that we are extremely pleased in Desus that you are clearly in favour of our coalition treaty in the Slovenian Democratic Party, so we can also count on your vote when we establish a demographic fund and make very important other decisions that are important for the development of the country and for the welfare of citizens and citizens. And why do I say you support this government and its coalition treaty? Because in interpolation you tell us that we do not respect our own coalition agreement or our own coalition agreement. So you support this government's programme, colleagues, the better opposition would be hard to wish for at this point. On the other hand, as it is said, you are horrifying the work of the government, which is extremely double-faced. If you are working so hard to fulfill our coalition commitments, then it is best that you join us in the coalition; but perhaps there is little joke here. In the last Saturday’s annex to the newspaper Work, we were able to read an excellent article entitled “Did the Reality Show Beat Politics? ” Of course, it is not just a rhetorical question; it is our reality. The power of arguments and content no longer play any role. Your policy of assault, fear and intolerance is increasingly coming to the surface. People have read you in some way, respected colleagues and colleagues, so all your attempts to undermine this government and this coalition are no longer moving towards anyone. Again you have prepared a new game for us, a new performance for the public, by tomorrow morning; but most of the public no longer trust you, and this game can be dangerous. This game can bring us to some other time 70 years ago, which probably no one wants. Politics creates new divisions; and this is not right. We need to cut this. We need to be better. And today is just that, a show of creating new divisions, a pure bluff with no added value. Do we really want this kind of society, us and our citizens?Oh, my God! I'm sure you don't. This year, the foundations of Western society were shaken; something had to shake in our own heads. With these meaningless meetings, constant tensions and the drawing of catastrophic situations, we are only further deepening the public's already negative opinion on politics. And then we are surprised that the people in the polls estimate that we are the Members most corrupt in this country. I'm sure that's not true; but it's not easy for the public to convince because we're doing everything we do because we're constantly in front of people, in front of cameras. Do you ever think about and ask what citizens think of us who are looking at us right now? It's no good if we look at the polls. Just how good they should feel about us, when from day to day, from week to week, from month to month, they look at divisive things that do nothing. We're all the same to people. We're all bickering. We're not doing anything. And politics is certainly partly to blame for such a situation. Dear fellows on the right! I'm sure you're not doing yourself a favor in the long run. I suggest you stop playing with the feelings of the citizens and be constructive. Stop performing in this reality show, because we all know that the sessions of the National Assembly would be half shorter if there were no cameras of the parliamentary programme. Let me return to today's darkness. We have a government that is not ideal; I confess and we confess. As none before it, of course, but this government is the only one who has been able to normalize the country after many years. We have eased political passions, stabilized public finances, and returned Slovenia to where it has always been – a map of economically successful countries. And now that the country is doing much better, it is time to make sure that our people are doing better. But unfortunately, it doesn't all go through the night. Just as we feel the crisis with delay, we feel recovery later as we would like. But the extensions are good, now we can only go up. Now that we have cleaned up the mess, it is time for us all to roll our sleeves together and adopt marriage solutions that will also preserve us in the long term among the most developed countries in the world. There is a need for health reform in front of us, we have demographic challenges ahead, we need to ensure a certain sustainability of the pension fund, and we are doing everything we can to get to the demographic reserve fund as soon as possible in Desus. We need to take care of people, help young people to get a good education and a good first service, provide pensioners with safe ages, sick doctors, relieve the economy and launch infrastructure projects. There are many challenges ahead of us, and I would also like the help of the opposition. Can we ever get together, at least when it comes to big things?Oh, my God! You know well that we can be critical of our own government. You know, it's like family, it's a special family love, it's a constructive criticism because we want to be even better. And it is logical that there is always room for improvement. You know, the easiest thing to do is be in the opposition, and it's also the easiest thing to criticize, everything. And promise something that's not real to achieve. We have taken this responsibility and therefore we must be prudent, we must take into account the financial framework while at the same time ensuring the well-being of all citizens and citizens. It is not easy, every day we must weigh among the various measures, friendly and less friendly; but we are doing it for the good of the country and citizens and citizens. It's not easy, it's people's fates that depend on us, including all of us here. But we are proud that it was these people who trusted us to represent them to the best of our ability. That's what we all think. You know what they say: "He who does works also sins." Being a populism, a respected colleague, is the easiest thing to do. We are a strong member of this coalition in Desus, and so it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u21	We have yet to see the final position of the Group of Members. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u22	Vice President, thank you very much. The President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I just remember, in case anyone watches TV, that we've had this country for 25 years, that we've done something good in this country, that we've done something bad in this country, and that this country didn't start three years ago. To discuss today, in this place, with respect and respect, the interpretation of the entire government, us, the Social Democrats, is not surprising at all. Not so that, at least this time, there would be some argument for interpolation that might be expected in the event of this kind of manoeuvre, perhaps even from the most opposition party as the proposer, or that some deeper purpose of this interpolation would be to seek some solutions. Unfortunately, this time too, the proponents have not failed their intention to simply and only want to stop the government's work, to have their five minutes under the media lights – 16 hours – and to re-dress the costume of the saviors of Slovenia. A suit we've seen before, and thank God only once. We've seen all the solutions that this costume has brought. This was all seen and heard. More in-depth analysis also does not deserve this time interpretation of the work of this government, ladies and gentlemen on my right. Not that the Social Democrats would want constructive debates on the burning topics that we must pay all our attention to in the future; but because we are repeatedly and again, not only this government coalition, but all the countries, ladies and gentlemen, are literally forced to deal with the complexes of the Slovenian Democratic Party instead of dealing with the problems of this country. This interpolation is not surprising. Perhaps a little bit more so that the Slovenian Democratic Party has decided, because it is likely that ordinary receptions no longer take place, that it no longer interpels ministers and ministers, but that it invests the largest asset to interpel the entire government. In the meantime, I had a feeling that we were at Mr Klemenčič's interpretation. On the other hand, we will not be surprised if we are likely to witness such interpretation within a month, unless otherwise indicated. As we know the recipe of the Slovenian Democratic Party for interpolation as we engage in interpolation – the interpolation drum at the premises of the Slovenian Democratic Party is spinning, there are the names of ministries that have the most media space at the moment when the happy minister or minister falls out, a few clicks on this subject are added, a lot of populism is added, even if it is children, it is not based on arguments because they are harmful to you, and at the right time the interpolation is introduced. And so on and so forth, until this seventh interpolation that we are witnessing to today. When these interpellations pass, in the meantime we deal with verified topics – partisans, patriots, the transformation of past history, the search for spies, plots and plots of transition left – and all ideas about what is going on in Murglah. This is a recipe that the Slovenian Democratic Party in some way knows and can do. Your Honor, we are pleased that the speaker of this interpretation has taken time to read the coalition commitment. To be honest, sometimes I can't find her either. Perhaps this was not the most enjoyable reading or work for him when this covenant was in conflict with the spirit of all that the applicant in some way praised as dry gold. And that it is necessary to privatise our businesses to the greatest extent possible, that we should put ourselves in the same position in private, but with tax money, that we do it in health care, that we do it in education. Not to speak, the difference between our tax policy and your tax policy; above all, the economic policy of this coalition in general is a painful area for the proposing force. You know why? As it is still being corrected today, the consequences that can be described as tax and economic apocalypse some 10 years ago. Unlike some of your Members, I am fortunate that I was here when it was led by the Slovenian Democratic Party. At the time the economy overheated under various tax exemptions, Slovenian public finances were in poor shape and there was also a financial crisis; I am not talking about replacing the old good directors then, that I am not talking about mixing in companies at the time and that I am not talking about the idea of privatising businesses through, as Mr Janša said, because that is his word, tycoon connections. But because of these actions, we have a bank hole, and we have to admit something, which I personally admit, after this government of yours came the government of Borut Pahor. We could have done something different back then, but unfortunately we didn't do what we should have done in those days, which is to repair the banking system. But in life, recognition is also well-intentioned. Let's go back, my dears, to the interpolation. I stress that the Social Democrats will never allow ourselves to challenge the business possibilities of the opposition to invest in interpolation; however, we do not have to agree to the logic that these interpretations are more than the content of the status of a party's press conference, which refers to the National Assembly and works in some way its own population. Before, a friend of mine sent me a brassiere, what it looks like from the outside. It looks like a billdata of two, on the one hand Mr Janez Janša, on the other hand Mr Miro Cerar, and we are somewhere in the middle of a little swim here and there. In life it is easier to be bitter and critical all the time; but it is difficult to improve anything, and it is even harder to do anything. With the responsibility to do something, we were faced by the Social Democrats when we entered this coalition, and we are ready to take responsibility. We have also been prepared to take responsibility in order to ensure that our programme can be fully realized, our values. And if anything, we Social Democrats in this work over the past two years can in some way be satisfied, especially we can be satisfied with the work of our three ministers, because we have proved to be a credible political party that can cooperate, who can work and who can take responsibility. Of course, each story can also have its beginning and end. Here, too, some values that the Social Democrats will never overrun if I can say so myself. This is also supported by results – positive economic and public financial indicators. What I said at the outset is not just the work of this government that we are present to. Some and important tasks have been done by the previous government, and I will always say publicly that this ZUJF, which was brought by Janša's government at the time, has helped because if it were so bad, we would probably replace or change it in this government; we have not. What I'm saying is that some success can also be shared. Not only one government is responsible for success but only one government is responsible for failure. Today it is repeated that we have economic growth, that the public deficit is less than 3%; that is true, ladies and gentlemen. The unemployment rate, thank God, has dropped below 100,000 people, and I think that's a good thing. Social Democrats with two ministers and one minister know that nothing has been given to us and that we have made the right decisions, including in the right time for this government and the previous government. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, led by Anja, has done a great deal on the programme of active employment policy. In doing so, it has produced a series of measures that now have good employment indicators. In 2014 and 2015, around 50,000 young unemployed people, aged up to 29, were employed. By 40%, young people's employment has increased within four months of their application to the unemployment register. It was for 2 million euros written off to the poorest. It has increased, ladies and gentlemen, financial social assistance for 97,000 children this year. Ninety-seven thousand children also receive a higher child supplement. In five days, Father's leave increased; 3,000 218 students and students received scholarships and could still be listed. As I said before, sometimes we make a mistake, in the government of President Pahor, we have made one mistake in the social work that we are now correcting, but it must also be acknowledged. I am talking about the recovery of aid received for beneficiaries of a security allowance and monetary social assistance for those who own property worth up to EUR 120 000. We're gonna fix this now. It is true that this now makes little room for us to be able to have a little more money in the budget right now. If I'm created with the Ministry of Defence, see Minister Andreja Katič. He is personally fighting for the importance of regulating the proper and comparable status of our soldiers. These were the ones that were the most disadvantaged at the time of the greatest savings within the defence system. We are so confident that the entire government will listen to the Minister's argument for a greater effort to improve the working conditions of our military and that it will receive approximately the same support as the Minister of Health. In the area of agriculture, however, it has broken with poor governance practices with the state forest and associated mixing; this is the result of the work of our Minister Dejan Židan. Promotion projects to promote food processing and supply are also very successful. The rural development programme will bring us €1.1 billion in funding in 2014-2020 and could also be listed. The efforts of Minister of the Jews to promote food outside our borders in Europe, for example in China, have already shown the first results. This is just a few of the many points that we will be able to hear during today's debate; and also a list of arguments that we have not done or what we should do. We have already given the Social Democrats, at the time of entering the coalition, that measures need to be directed even more towards people than they have so far; this also allows us to do so; that the effects of economic growth must be known in the lives of people, ladies and gentlemen. After us there is a difficult period, which we can briefly name a period of a large budget hole; unfortunately, it has become too many times and remains the first priority of meeting the challenges. In Slovenia, however, they are not only financial, they are particularly structural in nature, and this will also have to be done. Today we face health reform issues, other current health issues such as longer waiting species. And when, in the light of demographic trends, we need to create new sources of funding for future generations' pensions, to a greater extent to stabilise the labour market in a way that will prevent it from overreacting, not only in politics, but in society as a whole, we will have to strive for decision-making, to take co-operation; and, above all, to such decisions that will take precedence over the agreement. That this is still of some importance, we are also reminded of the period in recent months when public sector unions have been looking for possible solutions for the release of savings in the public sector and the search for an agreement with health unions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just about the policy of this government, it is about building some minimum confidence that we will be able to succeed, and at a time when the economy can still dictate this pace. But without trust and without agreement, we will not succeed. If we have figs in our pocket and do not respect the grip of our hand and the words given, we will not be helped by all the good words. Social Democrats will remain faithful and committed to making commitments on this; especially those commitments that, as a long-standing Socialist party, we advocate all these values and are not a party project. Of course I'm waiting to hear from the opposition. However, I hope that we will be able to prove that we are all the same in this country, that we can work together in some way, regardless of the differences, and if we agree on something, we stick to those words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you, everyone. Before giving the floor to the debate to Members and Members and Ministers and Ministers, allow me to give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mr Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listened to Mr. Cerar earlier when he answered the interpellation, I got the feeling that the speaker had missed the country. This seems understandable to me if any of the Members of the United Left still living in Venezuela do so, because this is their model; and they are the opposition. But if this is done by the President of the Government, it's a little bit problematic, because we are all dependent on how the country is managed. The Prime Minister of the Government was talking about a threesome. In 2014, when Mr Cerar was sent to the elections as a new face, there was no talk of a threesome saving Slovenia. At that time, it was a dilemma whether Slovenian banks were being saved solely with the money of Slovenian taxpayers through the rental of expensive commercial credit, state credit, or with money from the European Fund, which we set up at the same time and in which Slovenia is also paying, because it was free of charge; and because that debt would not be considered a state debt, which means that Slovenia would have had a lower debt in GDP even higher in commercial debt, in corporate debt and so on. No, the government said – we'll be sovereign, we don't want that money. Because with that cheap money would come the conditions that would prevent the robbery of Slovenian state banks from happening again, for the third time. Some refused to accept these conditions, some of whom were already in the government, and some of whom are now making fun of this. You called it defending Slovenian sovereignty. In fact, it was the defence of the same national interest as that of Milan Kučan in Maribor in 2002 or 2003 when he declared the bank a national interest. This national interest, you have defended this sovereignty by rejecting the cheap money from the fund to which we contribute ourselves; however, it is used to rehabilitate Spanish banks, and Spain is therefore no less sovereign. Mr Cerar, who occasionally sits on the European Council, probably knows that the word of the untrustworthy Spain, which has received this money, depends at least as much as the word of the sovereign Slovenia, which did not take the money. And now we, our sons, are paying off our grandchildren because this is a huge asset. With the double robbery of Slovenian state banks, which were declared a sovereign and Slovenian national interest issue at that time, one car was stolen from all those in Slovenia today who pay taxes and have the right to vote. Each Slovenian stole one car from Slovenian banks with this double robbery. That's what anyone can imagine. And that burden will go to future generations. Those who have forgotten about the calendar and still fear with some threesome to save Slovenia from, you have run in June and July 2014, who forgets that today the Slovenians are afraid of some other threesomes. And that's a three, I'll count it by alphabet – Cerar, Erjavec, Jew. These threes are afraid of the Slovenians today. 80% of people in Slovenia are convinced that we are not going in the right direction; and they are right. These doubts and the hardships of people are answered – we have politically stabilised Slovenia, Slovenia is politically stable. When Dr. Miro Cerar spoke those words, his coalition partner, Dejan Židan, in the lobby of this National Assembly, made statements to journalists where he said they would not support the agreement reached tomorrow by the Minister of Health with the support of the President of the Government with the medical union. If this is political stability, then I don't know what political instability is. But there are other types of political stability. North Korea is politically stable. She's absolutely politically stable. Cuba has been politically stable for 60 years. SFRJ was politically stable until it collapsed. Where fundamental democratic rules and fundamental human rights are being violated, this is a matter of very stable countries. And such stability comes about in various ways, sometimes with a military coup, sometimes with a bloody revolution and genocide, and sometimes by stealing an election, sometimes by someone who is the President of the Council, blowing up a whole bunch of judges, then by falsely condemning his political opponent, he goes to the elections, wins and boasts about it, and he is also embarrassed when the Constitutional Court annuls such a judgment. No excuse, no dignity, no honor, no dignity. You call that political stability?Oh, my God! Thus it was a lot later not only in the performance of Dr Cerar, but also in some others by the coalition; here it teaches how everything blooms in Slovenia. It came to my mind the sentence I heard in that documentary about the Yugoslav People's Army, which was wanted by government television in every way to censor after it was published. There is a passage where former Yugoslav dictator Joseph Broz says: “And I am surprised that everything is going so well.” I'm surprised we're living this nice life, too. We know how Yugoslavia ended. Now let us look at some information, in addition to what has already been presented, which is the reason for this satisfaction and flowering. In Slovenia there are several 100,000 pensioners who receive a miserable pension. Someone who has worked for 40 years is called a full retirement age, and he is a man and has worked in some difficult profession, not in the state administration, not in the police and the military, today receives a minimum full pension of 440 euros. At the same time, in this country, we have legislation that provides for someone who has not worked for a single day, a man who has reached the age of 63, a protective allowance of €449.8. In our so-called social state, ten euros more is given to those who have not worked one day than those who have worked for 40 years. This isn't about one case. This is about tens of thousands of people. And hundreds of thousands, maybe a little bit above that. How can these people be satisfied? Not only because they have low income, but because they see this injustice. Or someone who has an old byte somewhere in Kozyanska or some plot has previously received some social transfers, and then the social government of Social Democrats came along with the social minister for work during Mr Pahor's government, and all of this came under siege. Such aid and transfers may no longer be granted unless they give up that property. Who was hurt? The rich city elite around the centers is by no means, but the poorest layers in the Slovenian countryside. The social government has done so. It's intolerable to manipulate it with double criteria. If a government has good economic growth, it is bad, it is overheating, it is creating a hole; if a government has barely positive growth, it is good, all flowers, we have stabilized and saved Slovenia's sovereignty. If 2% of economic growth is good, then 4% is even better, in a normal country where mathematics is as good as it is. Not socialist. We listened to Mr Han earlier when he said that some serious tax reform had been carried out now; not the one in the 2004-2008 mandate that our government had carried out if it had caused problems. First of all, the problems that this tax reform has caused are the problems in noodles. At that time, with lower taxes, we received more revenue in the budget. 2007 is the first year when we had not less than 3% of the deficit, which you are now bragging about, but we had a surplus in the state budget. And to make the matter even more interesting, Mr Han, as far as I know, you all voted in favour of that tax reform. At that time an agreement was reached, we offered to cooperate with the entire opposition, we had a partnership for development. As part of that partnership, the SD has been constructively involved for most of the time, except just before the elections, we have harmonised 58 system laws, including all tax laws. The tax rates, as proposed at the time, were the compromise that was reached with you. You were there, you voted for that, and thank you for that, Slovenia went well. In the 2004-2008 mandate, which is now trying to prove to be one of the culprits for what you did later, all of you then had the opportunity of participating in the management of state-owned enterprises, and you have strongly proposed your staff. Mr Han, your Mr Križanič was sitting in all possible supervisory holy state-owned enterprises, from electricity to what I don't know; and a number of similar calibres you proposed went smoothly. You knew exactly what was going on there. You were involved in management and control. And at that time 2004-2008, prosperity in Slovenia actually increased by 24%. Not nominally, 24% have actually increased wages and pensions have been aligned with wages. For 24%; not 0.6%, as you are now coordinating pensions and making fun of pensioners. If positive economic results are good in one mandate, they are probably good in another. You can't expect an apology from a man who steals an election, so I won't ask for it. Lies that have been told before are a fiscal world. We have opposed the softening of the golden fiscal rule in the Constitution by constitutional law. That's why we didn't support those intermediate variants of yours. However, when the law was passed, we were prepared to participate constructively in the establishment of this body, and in the final round we also proposed a member, but no proposal went forward. In the repeated invitation to tender, you decided that none of the candidates were eligible. In fact, you did not have the appropriate authority to give an opinion on the budget, where the same opinion as you received from the European Commission would have been obtained from the fiscal council; and this would have been an additional problem for the government. That is why we do not have a fiscal world and have unconstitutional budgets. And no one gets hurt. You say you're visiting regions. Yeah, how many have you visited in two years? In Slovenia there are 12 statistical regions, unfortunately not yet due to colleagues there on the left who blocked coordinated solutions in 2008, when the entire body of legislation was prepared. We have 12 statistical regions, a normal government visits at least one region a month, talks with people, developmentists, proposes, finds solutions. The Administration is already preparing for such a visit to do much because they have to answer open questions. Any such visit is important. These are also important that you perform, but about once every four months. By the end of your term of office, you will be visiting approximately half the regions. We visited every region twice in one term, and we have always found a lot of things that needed to be resolved. If we had a calendar that you refuse, we might have written down the terms in advance, and things would have run normally. When people's real problems are not solved, the public, public opinion is sought with Flossules and stupidity. From my previous mandates, I remember a conversation with the late Drnovsk when he was no longer Prime Minister of the Government. I once asked him: “Why did you propose that debate on national symbols; because you know that there will never be a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly for a new flag and coat of arms, but now the whole of Slovenia has been engaged in this for one year.” He said, "That's why. That is why we have proposed that you discuss symbols, not government policy." That's it. And instead of symbols, we now have water in the Constitution. There are currently 28 Member States in the European Union, none considered it wise to write down the right to water in the Constitution because this is self-sustaining. You have invented a danger here, a problem that is artificial; and now we are talking about how we are successfully solving it. You throw pollen on the road, you say – oh, look, you're blocking; you remove the obstacle and you're successful. Brilliant! But what do people get out of it? At the same time, while boasting that you have written down the right to water into the Constitution – I do not know what nonsense will be next – the Minister for Culture remembers and proposes taxation of the Internet. The right to the Internet must be enshrined in the Constitution, the right to communication must be enshrined in the Constitution and thus protected by this new field of freedom, which is open to people, independent individuals, from bureaucratic and dogmatic attacks such as the taxation of the Internet. This is something that everyone uses today as water. You would tax it, regulate it, as Mr Peršak said. Of course, these totalitarian contractions are obviously in the genes of some. If not before, I think that the Slovenian public, and especially the young generation in particular, have learned what kind of government they have elected if they have accidentally voted for these three parties who want to tax the internet. People of God, there's no end to madness. The Prime Minister praised the adoption of a new law on burials and burial sites. Do you know what you've done with this law by removing various fees for members of the commission dealing with it?Oh, my God! Now you have set up a system that also among the dead parts of people on first- and second-class. If you find a body somewhere in your garden, human remains, you have to report it, the police, the investigating judge, are coming. Now, if there are hundreds of thousands of bodies in the war zone, this law of yours says that the police and the investigating judge can come, but they can't come, as they want. That's what you did with this law, that was the basic goal. And that New Slovenia went on ice is an additional regret. The dead are now first and second-rate. If you find someone who wasn't killed during the communist revolution, there's a process and it's a first-rate crime. But if it is natural law, as Mr Brglez would say, they are second-rate victims. With the law that, I'm going to say, is fundamentally unconstitutional at this point, you did it. That's what you're bragging about. There was no response to the government president's statement on this development strategy, which you should have for one year and to the formation of which you wrote down to invite the professional public, civil society, the opposition, all alive. Clearly, this has run out of time for clear answers. It has been said that we have employed 50,000 young people in the last two years. If that's true - great, hat down. Please tell me where and when. Tell me where and when you've hired these 50,000 young people in the last two years. It won't be hard to tell if you know there's 50,000 of them, then you had to count it from somewhere. Tell me where they got their jobs. The fact that you deleted them from unemployment statistics does not mean that they are employed, especially in Slovenia. We were at the trade fair in the summer and there we heard from the Chamber of Commerce and the Austrian-Slovenian Chamber of Commerce that only in the first half of this year, in Austria, in the border countries where the majority of people employed, only in the border countries hired 12 thousand people from Slovenia. Instead of boasting about reducing unemployment, say thank you to the Austrian government. Send them thanks and congratulations. At the same time, we have also heard information that is verified that more than 60,000 people who are officially employed in Slovenia save their employment status by working with agencies registered here and you have them in statistics here; they work everywhere else. Not in jobs created by government investments, and I don't know what else you've been bragging about; but let's just stick to the point. Tell me about these 50,000 young people who have been employed in the last two years of their employment. If that were true, you should know that. Look, this is a huge number. In a mandate where economic growth on average was 3% higher than the European average, we reduced unemployment to around 66,000; it was 4% at the time. At the same time, we also issued about 100,000 work permits for foreigners who went to work in Slovenia. The opposite was the situation. At that time they went to work in Slovenia and created added value here. Now they're going somewhere else, and you have employees. And now, when it comes to day migrants with a particular problem of additional burdens, there is a deliberate arrogant attitude on the part of the government. Sometimes a little warm, or arrogant, with a very clear goal. These are tens of thousands of people who work mainly in the neighbouring country, drive there daily and are actually overtaxed. There should be a solution in some categories. We found her once before, and then she was gone. And they're not going to get their hands on this because there's no solution available, but because they're trying to keep this category in this position, thinking they're going to think logically – the state of Slovenia has not provided me with a job, I have to drive to Austria, now it's putting an extra burden on me, elections are coming, I'm not going to vote in such a country. If these people had voted, they wouldn't have elected you. But because they will not vote, but this will be for you, I will say, added value; and from this corrupt manipulative motive there is no solution here. A great deal has been said in three, four shows that the Slovenian Democratic Party has recently submitted many questions. During the entire mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled a number of parliamentary questions, because this is our job. There have been a little more of these issues recently, and these are issues of our citizens and citizens, including your constituents, who are now sending questions to us and we are putting them into the procedure here. There is a special place on our website where anyone who has any problem with which the government is responsible can, through our Group of Members, ask this government what is the problem, when will they be solved and we are presenting these issues to you. And the fact that a minister doesn't like getting the question says a lot about how he understands his constitutional oath. “Inhibiting my work,” he says. Thus, answering the question of people's specific difficulties is an obstacle to their work. Then what's your job? The health contracts are possible. I hope we don't hear that arrogance again today. You have a specific question, answer them, we publish the answers and send them to people. If the evidence is unjustifiable, you will reject it if people point to a problem that needs to be solved, save it — that is why you are. Answer the man, maybe that'll get you a new voter. Not to say that this is an obstacle to your work. Yes, I'm sorry! This will continue until the end of the term of office. The questions are raining, the problems are huge. If everything had blossomed, as had been said earlier, there probably would have been no question. Now it's huge. And in the coming weeks, months, years, years, it's hard to talk about, given how those of us who set up a government will make sure that this government is dismantled in time before the damage is too great, so that I can think about it a little bit. Mr Cerar, how many of your predecessors and predecessors performed equally confidently and arrogantly for that speaker, and then Milan Kučan came to the government office to ask for VAT, there was a congress and the government fell. And all of your predecessors and predecessors believed, until that visit, that they were sovereign, that they were in charge, that they were deciding everything and so on. And today they're sitting there somewhere in the last benches if they've even come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u25	The first was announced by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Vice-President of the Government of Mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, President of the Government, Minister, Ministers, Secretary of State, welcome! At the outset, I would like to say that interpolation is a legitimate right of the opposition and I do not intend to discuss it at all. Since we have interpolation, it must also be used to the maximum extent possible. This must enable the Government to review once again the fulfilment of its promises and then to make this public, and perhaps to hold a constructive debate with the opposition. I would like to say right away that I am not in a group of politicians who think that the useful things in Slovenia have started with this government, and when this government is gone, there will be no useful things. I see it a little differently myself. I had the opportunity to work in the government, at least for a short time, not all the time, of then President Borut Pahor, and I saw what it meant to act in a situation where there was a sudden financial and economic crisis that we did not expect in Slovenia at the time and what it meant to have extremely innovative and effective measures to ensure as many jobs as possible and at least some social security, which was very threatened at the time. And remember, that's when Borut Pahor's government succeeded in ending its mandate with small but economic growth. I had the opportunity to be in the government of Alenka Bratušek. I was able to watch live the days when Slovenia was not very far from the threesome. Many also recommended a threesome, both from Europe and within Slovenia, while forgetting that this means that Slovenia becomes a protectorate. We were familiar with the recommendations of the troika and how it works and what their plan to improve the social system means, what their system of improvement of pensions, which at the first moment meant a significant reduction in pensions, what in their case means a system of improvement of public education, which means reduction and introduction of public education payments and so on. I am very glad that we were able to do so with our own strength. And I also view this period as such as positive. I am now also a member of the government led by President Miro Cerar, and I am also aware that this government has also begun a mandate with several things from the past that need to be resolved and also saved, while at the same time in a better condition than we have been in those two governments that I have mentioned. The result is also that we have a coalition agreement, which is more ambitious and even more people's expectations for us are rightly greater and our responsibility is greater. At this point, I would like to say what is very important that we have done during this period. What we should have done 25 years ago is a capital investment management strategy. Slovenia had a lot of state assets 25 years ago. Sadly, she did not define what she wanted with this property. This property was an ideal target for hunting, not mostly governments, but some other interests, while those who managed it felt extremely happy. No one demanded what was at all the meaning of state property, and that is a return. If you look at the state property in France, for example, where there is such a return that the current Slovenian state property should contribute 300 to 400 million to the state budget for the execution of the public functions of the State. And that's an important step. The capital investment management strategy also allows without major debates, without long reflections, directors who fail to achieve this return may be welcomed at the moment. Otherwise, I wish we had more happy hands to look for human resources solutions. I'm not one of those who advocates that good people should be looking outside. I have enough confidence and I believe in experts, economists within Slovenia. I am aware that we will also have to look in the future, and I believe that within Slovenia we will find people who will manage our assets well. What is also important is that the Government understands that people must also benefit from economic growth. It is no longer just a solution to financial and other institutions, but that part of the benefits of growth go to people. If you look at the last few months and the last two years, you will see that people in Slovenia also have a slightly higher salary in the public sector and some things that have not yet been fulfilled from the state budget are also paid to pensioners. Of course, there are a lot of things ahead of us that we need to do in the next two years. Allow me to say what is extremely important to us as Social Democrats. If I look at the pensioners to have a stable period, a third life period, waiting species, health waiting species, should be regulated because they are most under attack. You know that the Social Democrats are extremely supportive of strengthening public health. That is also why in the past we have sounded as much as we did in the past. We are aware, however, that the unregulated public health situation continues to constitute a direct transition to the privatisation of public health. People will be dissatisfied with public health and will choose private health care, even though we do not have the experience that this can bring. The same is true in higher education, in education. We are great advocates of public education, knowing that the greatest enemies of public education as public health care are those who work within it. If they do not adhere to standards, if they do not adhere to ethics, if they do not establish such a system of values to convince users that it is useful, this directly refers to privatisation. In the case of pensioners, if observed, it is extremely important to establish a demographic fund. Not because of the current pensioners. Everyone who knows the demographic structure knows that in about 20 years we will have a major demographic problem that will last about 20 years. Now we have the opportunity to prepare ourselves for this problem in a way that will not reach out to the pensions that will be in 20 years. And that's why the demographic fund is so important. I very much want this agreement that we have in the Government to present it in a relatively short time as a starting point to other political parties and non-governmental organisations and also to implement it, even though we are doing something that is not normal: we are solving a problem that will only be in 20 years. It is therefore very important to include a broad representation of people in the management of the demographic fund. And if the opinion of the Social Democrats is taken into account, we will strongly recommend that we also implement the Austrian system, i.e. that the Supervisory Council leads, whoever will then, the President of the Court of Auditors. We need to build a system that people will trust. Long-term care is also very important. When we talk about long-term care, we talk about new 100 to 150 million. This also needs to be made very clear to people, to go into the project and to start providing money. There was a lot of discussion about the work of Minister Anje Kopač Mrak. As far as you know, interpellation is also in place. If we look through the numbers, you can see that what it is in charge of, that is, leading an active youth employment policy, is a similar active policy to allow older people to work and make it work. That's what the numbers show. I am aware that there is great expectation of labour market reform as well as some other reforms. But here we need to be aware that if we are talking about labour market reform, flexibility is just a completely wrong step. Because flexibility in Slovenia is understood in this way to make sure that the employer can immediately forgive the employees without consequences and not build a safety net in the back. I believe, honourable Members and Members, that we do not think that way in this Chamber. As far as the protective supplement is concerned, the Minister received very many initiatives at this point in her first interpretation. The law is ready, the law is even so far prepared that the government can accept it on Thursday, so tomorrow. I hope that the political will, which has been so very exposed here, will also come true. Something about agriculture. I've read the readings. The findings are always suitable for discussion. I'd like to tell you two things. In 2014 and 2015, for 2016, there are no data yet, we had as far as the range of value and the criterion used as an expression of profit, and this is not the true word for agriculture, we had one of the highest growth rates in the European Union. That must be a comparison. If you look at the exploitation of the rural development programme, it is 99.96%. Maybe it goes to 100%, but I'm looking in Europe for the country that did it. I'll keep looking for her. I can't find her right now. As regards the implementation of other agricultural measures, I am aware that the maximum current aid is the provision of liquid liquidity. The state budget, the government as a whole and the financial ministry allows us to implement a number of measures prematurely. We can make direct payments for a year, which is 140 million euros, mostly paid already in March. Very much, too, a lot of important European countries have asked for the deadline to move to mid-October. Ladies and gentlemen! You've probably also noticed that he's slowly starting to grow his defense budget. I am aware that security risks are now greater than they were a few years ago, and that they can happen to be even greater in the future. It is therefore the right decision to strengthen the security system. But if you look at the budget for 2017, 2018, this trend is noticeable. I believe that the government that examines the implementation of the coalition contract annually through annual action plans, where each minister must write very clearly the three most important projects of that year, the deadlines and then we also know when the control will be by both the President of the Government and the Government as a whole, that it is the right way to implement the coalition treaty as a whole. So I believe that two years from now, when we may be in this Chamber, we will again find that the situation is better than today, but far from being what our vision is. And this vision must be simple. Slovenia must be friendly to all the people who live here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u27	The second Vice-President of the Government, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, has the floor, and Dr Mitja Horvat and Mrs Nada Brinovšek should be prepared. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Today, we stand before this esteemed congregation with the prospect that we have not done enough, or so to speak. I think it is right to face this and also to say what this government has actually done in its mandate, what it is planning and which projects are actually going on. But if you'll allow me, first a personal look at this debate that we're listening to today when we're talking about past history, what happened years ago, about how someone was sent to politics and appointments. Let me say that I went to politics two years ago solely because of the idea of our President, in whom I trusted, of an idea in which I recognized myself, an idea that had a good desire and a sincere intention to help this country, in which we have identified many irregularities. Every day and after two good years, I wonder whether this idea is still honest, clean, and alive. I am pleased to note that this idea is alive, that we are genuinely working for the benefit of the state, citizens and citizens, and therefore I am also happy to be a member of this government in all my problems, advantages and weaknesses. We have advocated that Slovenia be preserved and returned to the Slovenians with all its natural goods, economy, public systems, because the only thing that the right policy can do is actually serve. We have committed ourselves to maintaining public systems, public education, public health, and we are also doing so through implementation. And the problems that we are addressing in these systems also point to the resistance that we really need to break, to reduce that we can achieve our basic goal of having a quality country, quality public services. We know that we are not always welcome with these activities. We are always and everywhere facing a lot of resistance, a lot of ingrained practices that we are facing, that we are fighting, and that, although they are devoting themselves to some public good, may not, in fact, advocate what is the essence of our policy. We will insist on this path. We will insist because we have committed ourselves to this and because it is the only purpose of our political engagement. However, we know that it will take time to change the nature of political dialogue, the culture of facing arguments, stating facts and dealing with realities, but not with distorted ideas. However, in this country, if we look today at what happens when more employment comes, foreign investors, systems improve, perhaps more than at home, it is important that we make rapid progress on all international scales. The international public recognises us as a good country with a vision that faces its problems effectively and has a future. Last but not least, in times of greatest security threats and risks when we were exposed to extreme pressure, we managed this in a way that citizens did not practically feel it, the economy suffered no harm, so we are also able to respond in critical situations. Let's take a closer look. In the procurement system, we have improved both the legislation and the method of ordering. The total contracts are from 6 two years ago today 16 – a figure of 245 million. Savings are obvious and are already being used for more real purposes. In the health sector alone, we have an open moment for 45 million total public procurements, for which I should say only one interesting information, on average we receive 2 to 3% of complaints on public procurement, but in health contracts we have several complaints such as public procurement, to understand what are the resistances we are facing and, in fact, we insist on this path. We have introduced new digital services, central government portals, published a data type, and I will not list what has been done. But the key is to increase transparency. We simply publish data that does not interfere with business or personal data. This is the most effective way to identify irregularities, the most effective way to deal with possible distortions of facts, the real, real, transparent data published on the Internet and can be seen by every journalist, every citizen, every Member of Parliament, and to see what the actual state of affairs is, not what some interpretations are. Slovenia, the green reference country in digital Europe, is an initiative that has been extremely successful in these two years and has actually put Slovenia at the side of the most successful informational developed countries, not because information technology is more important than all other activities in this country, but we are in the midst of the fourth industrial revolution and the future of this country and all other countries will be digital. And why do we give such an emphasis? Because it is in this area that we see some huge opportunity for the developmental leap of Slovenia, for our entire economy, for all of our knowledge. And if we are talking so much about that every young educated person going abroad is a loss for the country, of course I have to agree with that. And we want them to come back, we're building a foundation for them to come back. Because they will return to the top development challenges and only this will draw them back and to new business opportunities, otherwise we have lost them forever. That is why we are actively working in this direction. Above all, we insist on the transparency, publication and clear presentation of all data even when it may not be most favourable for the work of this government, but the public has the right to be able to actually monitor what is happening in a transparent way in the country. With regard to the non-governmental sector, we are broadly coordinating the development strategy. We give special emphasis to volunteering. With regard to local self-government, the recently adopted strategy for the development of local self-government. There was a lot of talk about regionalization. For more than 10 years, nothing has been done in this country in the area of regionalisation towards the realization of what is enshrined in our constitution. We have done this in a way that gives the regions content and specific powers. When we agree on this, the regions can actually be reached, or we can spin around for years as many regions as we need. But no one wonders what the original powers of the region are, in fact, that we will not further complicate and undermine the functioning of this country. As regards the public sector, the public sector, the service system, the organisation, this is undoubtedly the biggest challenge. We are also addressing this challenge in the context of the reduction we have received in recent years. The state administration itself, the state administration, has reduced the number of employees in recent years by over 3,000. A comparison between the 2012 government and the current government, regardless of the number of ministries, shows that our government is actually operating with 2 000 780 less employees today than in 2012. This is specific information. At the same time, we note that the public sector has grown stronger in areas where this is necessary and actually brings quality to citizens. Health employment has been strengthened, employment in education is increasing, that is where the needs are actually growing, and that is where we actually provide services for citizens, those for whom they are most interested. At the same time, we are implementing a range of measures across the public sector. Functional analysis has shown exactly where the irrationalities we're already eliminating are. Targeted governance – so that we can set and measure targets for people in the public sector at all. At the same time, we are revamping the entire education system focused on leaders, as the key to the success of the public sector is at all levels, so we are also taking big steps here, focusing on the responsibility of the leaders for our own work and, last but not least, the responsibility of the leaders for the fair remuneration of our employees, not the "whom I like" principle. These are important data, these are the challenges that we are actually addressing with concrete projects, and these are also challenges that will leave a positive mark in this country in the long term. If you'll allow me to end up with another more personal understanding. It is clear to me that this government is working with one big burden of mistrusting citizens to the work of the government. This mistrust has been built up for years, often very legitimately, and we must take this for a lease. Just as we need to borrow a number of bad practices, as we need to borrow the enormous burden of external debt that this country has acquired in recent years. However, in these contexts we must act positively, proactively and address all these problems, regardless of who caused them. The government's task is to address these problems effectively. But when I listen to this debate today, I see that there is somehow a decision on two concepts ahead of us. When the president spoke about what the government was doing and what our values were, he spoke about responsibility, work, development, stability, these terms. When I listen to the proposer of today's interpretation, I listen to words like scheming, chaos, lies, elites, fear, thefts. Yeah, that's two concepts we're facing. Our concept is a concept of development that leads to the future. The second concept is the concept of fear and hidden networks existing or not that drag us back into the past. This government will make every effort to break this concept, we are firmly on this path and we are going to the future for our citizens and citizens, not to buy political points. This is what we owe Slovenia. I personally owe it to the President, and we owe it to our constituents, and we will insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u29	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Prepare Mrs. Nada Brinovšek and Mr. Peter Wilphan. Mr. Horvath, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Honourable President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! After such a good introduction, it's much easier to start. What is the difference between the two concepts just discussed by the Vice-President of the Magnificent Government? Koprivnik? It's about populism, and it's about liberal ideas. Populism, which tries to wake up to what it urges, feelings to respond emotionally, and the liberal concept to which the Modern Centre Party belongs, on scientific and other facts, is justified in finding the best solutions. Of course, it is much easier to offer simple solutions, it is more difficult to face online all the problems we have in society facing this government and facing it today, because in some of the substantially better and better conditions we could upgrade, and like the Vice-President of the Magnificent Government. The Jewish well said when this more ambitious programme could be implemented, the coalition partners' agreement could be implemented. Inside the much more difficult situations in which we have found ourselves and which have also led to the creation of the Modern Center of Enthusiast, people with great will, people with great will, who are working from morning to evening, because we believe that it is possible and that we want to find the best solutions, the best solutions with the socially responsible work for the dignity of people. What do we face when we look for the best social solutions when we act socially responsibly? We face pressures, pressures that we like to call them, but globalization, neoliberalism, in short, to whom we will serve. To those who are easier to serve, to those who have real social power and unlimited financial resources, will we serve those who are weaker in this process and face everyday problems in life? For us, these are challenges and opportunities that must be addressed socially responsibly. That's what I'm happy about, and if you remember, in the beginning, before we elected the prime minister of this government, I warned you that this was a man who was going a hard way. It would be much easier to come every day with new and new popular socially acceptable promises, empty words, than you often inspire them. But no. These are words that are weighed, based on the facts that he has learned. Of course, he can’t communicate everything because he has a limited time in which he can communicate. Journalists are not prepared to listen to the story as to what are the elements that give you a certain answer. And of course, something easier, you get a person into a time loop, you give him a little time to say something, and then you start twisting, manipulating, and not dealing with just an idea, with the very question, with the very saying of a thought, but how can you easily abuse it. And while I'm at it, I have to commend you, distinguished proponents, you're making progress. You've even asked me a question I've missed in interpolation so far. Of course, the question is not what we would expect in the National Assembly when we talk about the government’s work and responsibility. How coalition partners solve their challenges, the issues they face, is a matter of coalition partners, which you have very clearly written at the end of the coalition agreement. And speaking of which, I have worked myself out, I am most grateful to the one who suggested this to them, and I am glad that we are in this mandate with the coalition agreement and not with the treaty. The Treaty immediately recalls a legal document where two or more parties can commit themselves and may, after all, enforce the respect of the agreed and, in the end, enforcement through coercive means. That's not what this is about. This has also shown us what we went into politics for. And that's what this government is. This government is a positive change that people have expected, needed, and deserve. This government is responsible. I've never met such a large group of people except the one we started when we set up a client who works from morning to evening who works 24 hours a day for 7 days a week. All credit goes to the President, who is the first example in this. I don't know how you hold up, you're an inspiration to me, that when they ask me how many hours you've been asleep and what you're now, I think of my president first and say, "If he can hold it, I'll hold it." And thank you very much also to ministers and ministers who do the same. This interpretation is a joke against what I ask the members of this government daily, weekly, monthly, because my questions are much more direct and sharper. That is why I believe that today they find it easy to respond to such poorly prepared findings from this interpretation. However, I hope that we will talk and that we will assess this work and that we will have enough opportunities today to present that the work of this government is excellent. Thank you very much, all the good on this path and you have absolutely my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u31	Mrs Nata Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Peter Wilphan and Mr Jan Škoberne. Here you go, Mrs. Brinovšek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Well, how well our interpellation is prepared, I think it will also be seen from how good the government's answers will be. Look, the fact is that this government and the coalition don't respect the Constitutional Court's decisions. They do not respect the decisions of the courts. This coalition, as well as the government or the ministry, do not respect the laws adopted in this national assembly. And the fact is, in this country, the one who warns about some mistakes is more punished than the one who makes them. That's a fact. And the fact is, we don't all have the same living conditions, or this government doesn't have all the same criteria for us. You divide us into first-class and second-class. We have heard the same thing about our President before, not just living now, but, according to the new, you also divide the dead into first-class and second-class, which is very sad. But before the constitution and the law, everyone should be equal. And that should be the priority of this government, not some ethical and moral principles that have long since passed the exam. When I spoke to our citizens in the Upper Savina Valley last week, why we decided to do this interpretation, I told them that because this government and coalition do not respect the legislation and because it is not one of your coalition promises. And a citizen said to me, "Oh, Hope, leave them alone, you know it's better if they don't do anything. Because whatever they do, they do even more damage than they already do." And I must say, in one respect, maybe I'll give this citizen right. If I look at it, it is a pity that the Minister of Agriculture is not here because this agricultural minister will do more harm to Slovenian agriculture than he will do to our forests. That's a fact, it's also spoken in the field. And look, the Ministry of Finance, as it appears in the National Assembly, will already come with some law that will further burden our economy or our citizens. One, anyway. As I mentioned earlier in the case of the Upper Savina Valley, I will tell you what people say, but not only the Upper Saxons, even in Ljubljana or wherever I go, I hear: “Oh, let’s hold our wallets, there will be a meeting of the National Assembly again.” Yes, my colleague from Kentucky, I think that's what they say in your neighborhood, I'm sorry. But if you don't go to your electorate, you probably don't hear that. In order not to stop in all areas, I will only stop at the Ministry of Health. In our client, we keep alerting the ministry about what needs to be done. First the public health network, then the norms and standards, systemic legislative changes. The long line of waiting became the rakrana of this government. Competition must be enabled and there is no doubt that the directors of public institutions should be given more powers and more powers. But the ministry is deaf to our well-intentioned initiatives. What will mark the work of this ministry and these ministers will undoubtedly be a long waiting line in this mandate. After that, this minister will be known. I must say that these waiting types have increased by more than 30% in this mandate and it is very sad, dear fellows, that every eighth Slovenian is waiting somewhere in line for a review or for a service. Every eighth Slovenian! If this isn't worrying about you, then God help you! Look, more than half the term is already behind us. Tell me, representatives of the Ministry of Health, how many measures of your coalition contract have been implemented. Here you have it written down: 7 measures. The result is nothing. None. And that's supposed to be a priority. We have always warned that systemic changes are needed. The ministry has also given us little and agreed that systemic changes are needed. In your work programme for 2015 and 2016, you had in mind that you would adopt or that we would consider and adopt 17 laws here in the National Assembly. And what's the result? Four laws. More than half the term of office, maybe we've only got one more year, so it'll all go well. I mentioned the long queues. I'm hoping you'll think a little bit about these waiting lines. And what else will this secretary mark? Of course, it's a human resources exchange. This minister is somehow subject to the Politically Suitable Candidate principle. In response to our interpellation, the Minister told us that she no longer employs herself politically in her mandate. I have to say here "run away" or what you will then say about the recruitment of Brigitta Čokl, Andrej Baričič, Andraž Kopač, director of the hospital in Brežice, the early replacement of 88 members of the boards of public institutions. Isn't that political recruitment? Maybe now you say to it differently: “If you are ours, then there is no need for any experience.” A major health problem is also the departure of our doctors abroad. I also asked the question of how many, if any, young doctors have gone abroad in the last two years, or why these young doctors have decided to go abroad. It is also true that this minister does not react to corruption in the health sector, but if she reacts in some very slow establishments. The Minister also argued in response to the interpretation that she was not responsible for the operation of public institutions, on the other hand, that as soon as the mandate entered into force, she had begun to deal with the rehabilitation of the revenue and expenditure sides or with the operation of public institutions. Yeah, now, if you coalition understand how this works, I have to say I don't understand. This minister will no doubt be very well known after some of the pilot projects have been drawn up. We know how these analyses were prepared. On the basis of the analysis, a resolution should be drawn up, but the resolution was prepared earlier and the analysis was then prepared. So it doesn't matter that we talk about these analyses and what they serve. This minister will also be known that I will express myself very well after the deception. See, on October 10, 2015, we discussed the budget on the Health Committee, when she told us what strange millions this ministry will receive in the 2016 budget, I will quote: "As I mentioned, there are still 27 million agreed for these programmes, which are not in the proposed budget and will be included later." I ask where the 27 miracle millions are now in this 2016 budget, which we have already denied is not true. The ministry still doesn't know what's very sad about whether it has a public network or doesn't have one. At each meeting of the Health Committee, the Minister assures us that it is a public network. And also a number of respected coalition colleagues say this, but the secretary at the Ministry of Health said on February 12th this year, "we are preparing this network within the working groups of the Ministry in cooperation with external experts, but the product is not such as to be discussed at this time." Pika. So the secretary and the secretary don't know what they have in the house and what they don't have. And if I stop at the emergency centers. The minister praises the emergency centers working. What the hell! Emergency centres don't have solved human resources problems, organizational problems, to say the least financially, that's all in the air. And there's something I'd like to say about the pediatric centers. So we don't say anything again, I'm gonna say that the secretary has been deceiving us. In response to the interpolation, it was not until March of this year that the paediatric emergency centres were not included in the emergency centres. What the hell! I was at a meeting of the Committee a year ago, this is in March 2015, when the profession, which did not participate in the emergency medical procedure, drew attention to this fact. I could also list the deceptions of the Minister on the Health Committee and here in the National Assembly, but I will only say this in the end. The Minister also wrote in her reply to the interpretation for the end: “Representatives deliberately discredit the Minister, even insulting, by sealing their eyes before the actual good results of Slovenian health.” I said last time that our citizens should assess how good this health care is. It's a good profession, but the system is weak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go, Mr. Wilphan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for the words of the Vice-President, a nice greeting to the representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, as many as are left in this Chamber and all the others present. I'm going to repeat myself a little bit now at the beginning, but I think it's only right that we say some things more than once. Today, the 7th Interpellation is already under way here in the National Assembly, the 8th Interpellation is already under way and will be on the agenda soon. This is the third time in history that has been filed against the whole government. The first two, against the government of Janez Drnovska and the government of Anton Ropa, were unsuccessful, as I am sure that this one will fail today. Although I do not at all object to the opposition's right to interpellate, I can ask myself, for the usefulness of doing so, and I think the opposition should also ask what it really is and who it brings, what it takes, or who it benefits, or who it benefits. But we're going to get an answer anyway in less than two years when the next election. However, I agree with all those who say that these interpretations try to prevent or even prevent the normal functioning of the Government and of individual ministries. In this context, of course, I also see a strong increase in the number of questions submitted by the SDS Group, and also of course that we are on the clear, I do not object. This is absolutely their right. But to see what kind of relationship this has achieved, I will now serve you with some other numbers. This year, the SDS Group has asked a thousand and eighty-one questions. Just last Tuesday, 32, for the entire term of office, 2 000 526. These are really high numbers, especially when we look at how this happened in previous mandates. In some periods, only a few ten questions have been raised by the SDS Group, in the most fertile one, if I may say so, and in the past between 400 and 500. I can only assume, like some others, that this is done with this purpose, which I have also mentioned in the introduction. We in our parliamentary group will not all discuss the whole interpretation, because I think it would be pointless. First, we don't all get to know everything, secondly, we wouldn't have enough time, although time is huge in this debate today. So that individual Members and Members will discuss some of the areas covered by this interpretation in this debate. But before I focus on my present day, I would like to say something about the functioning of the entire government. I think what I'm about to say is that we can all agree on this. I think that the work of this government has indeed been marked to a large extent by this refugee-migrating crisis. A crisis that no one expected that no one had predicted, the crisis that has simply come has happened and is still going on. Of course, this crisis has taken up a lot of time, a lot of energy, effort, work, focus and more. So all that this government would have been able to do if it hadn't been for it could be aimed at solving problems and problems within our country, problems that concern our citizens and citizens, and unfortunately this has not been possible in a large part of this last period. I would also like to say that it is my view that the government has done this very well. I would particularly like to point out here some of the parts of this government, some of the ministries that have been far more exposed here. This, of course, applies particularly to the Ministry of the Interior, which has been carrying and will continue to bear in the future the left share of the fight against this migrant-refugee crisis, which can, I think, all of us are aware, any moment again. It can only be a matter of days, it can be a matter of weeks or months. And then we will have to be well prepared again for all these events. Here I would say that we will also bear part of the responsibility of the members of the National Assembly, who will have to discuss in a short time, as well as adopt some kind of legislative proposal – with the Ministry of the Interior I would say that the Ministry of Defence had great merit here as well, and not least the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – so that these proposals would allow them to manage and also manage this possible continuation of this migratory crisis, which may be even worse than the previous one. It must be said that more than half a million migrants and refugees have passed through Slovenia at this time, and that the vast majority of Slovenian citizens and citizens have virtually not felt the crisis. They practically did not come, I am talking about 90 to 95% of our citizens and citizens who have not experienced any consequences of this event, who have not come into any direct contact with these migrants or refugees. We can only wish that the Government would succeed and thus do this work, even if this crisis continues. Now, I would like to go to this topic, which I will talk about today, which is the field of foreign policy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is not here with us today. We all know where he is. It is located in Iran, Tehran, where, together with the President of the State, the Slovenian Embassy was reopened. On this visit, some more than 50 Slovenian economists, who, according to the data we have, also met around 100 Iranian economists, met with them. This is the story that I will tell you more about at the end of this debate. I'm talking about this economic diplomacy. When I reviewed this interpretation and looked for that chapter on foreign policy and when I finally found it, I got the feeling that the applicants had a problem here, what exactly did they write in this chapter? And then when I looked at what they wrote, I realized that these were more or less some of the known old findings, not quite the substantive ones that we've heard many times before, to which the Prime Minister of the Government, the Foreign Minister, the representatives of the Foreign Ministry, have answered many times, and have given virtually all the answers. However, I have noted something that at least this part of foreign policy has been written much more culturally to express myself, as was the interpretation that Karl Erjavc filed several months ago with the first-signed Mate Tonin, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Nova Slovenije. At that time, it was actually and in fact only an attempt at the personal discredit of the foreign minister and, in fact, to me, almost incomprehensible personal account of colleague Matthew Tonin with the foreign minister. And that's why that interpolation went down, too. Now perhaps some answers or some of my thoughts on some of the points that are set out in this chapter of foreign policy in this interpretation. The first is, for example, changing the basic orientations of Slovenian foreign policy. I think we all know that in June 2015, in this National Assembly, first on the Committee on Foreign Policy, we then adopted the Declaration on Slovenian Foreign Policy here in plenary. On the basis of this declaration, a strategic foreign policy document entitled Slovenia was then produced, safe, successful and respected in the world, followed by the Implementing Act of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself. All these documents were adopted with the widest possible consensus. All those who wanted to do so were involved in the preparation of these documents, who are in any way interested in or associated with foreign policy, the Takakadam sphere, civil society and all individuals and organisations who wanted to do so. So obvious that this government, this foreign ministry and this foreign minister do not implement foreign policy in accordance with the framework given them by these documents is absolutely not true. Last but not least, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will come to the National Assembly every year to give a report on the implementation of these guidelines, and virtually every week we have at least once in Parliament representatives of the foreign ministry, on the Committee on Foreign Policy or on the Committee on EU Affairs, and I have not observed on any of these committees any great dissatisfaction or disagreement with the way in which Slovenian foreign policy is implemented. The second observation to say a few words is the passivity and non-acceptance of Slovenia's tasks within the EU and NATO. I can't agree with that either. I think that Slovenia is a very active member of the EU. Slovenia participates in making virtually all the key decisions in the European Union, as well as fewer key decisions. Slovenia is recognised as a fully equal and equal partner to all other members of the European Union. Slovenia is a country that gives initiatives and initiatives, which are also often adopted at the level of the European Union. And Slovenia, if I say so, is also recognised as an active, responsible and solidarity Member State, which is also recognised by the other Member States as a pro-European focus. Slovenia is also committed to further EU integration and to the strong institutions of the European Union. So this insight, as well as the others I've been talking about, is also not acceptable. It's working in Nate. Yes, Slovenia has assumed certain obligations and tasks by entering NATO, and Slovenia also carries out these tasks. It is true, however, that it exercises them within its capabilities. And these are what they are right now. We all know that the funds for the Ministry of Defence, our defence system, the Slovenian Army from year to year have been declining. This government has now stopped the downward trend, but this percentage is still far below what Slovenia has accepted as some kind of commitment when it enters NATO and perhaps one day, or certainly our allies are expecting it. However, Slovenia is carrying out all its tasks. Slovenia participates practically in all operations, for all tasks of NATO. And what I can say is that whenever these operations end, when our representatives and representatives return to Slovenia, we only get credit for their work and how they did their job. So I think that this too can be rejected peacefully, of course, Slovenia remains a credible and reliable ally. Furthermore, there is an obvious – yes, interesting – passivity of Slovenian politics towards the United States of America. If we asked any other member of the National Assembly, I would say that Slovenian policy is absolutely too pro-American, if any, I would say that it is pro-Russian, and I would say that it is too European or too European. I think that Slovenia's relations with the United States of America are in fact the same as those of a small country with 2 million inhabitants and the greatest world power. I don't think these relationships are usually dictated by those little ones, but dictated and decided by the Majestics. Nevertheless, I think that relations with the United States of America are constructive, correct, in fact, I can calmly say that they are good. Slovenia participates at all levels with the United States of America, Slovenia is a key partner within NATO, of course also outside the EU. So we can peacefully say that this is just another observation that was written in this part of the interpolation, because, as I said before, given that this is an interpretation against the whole government, it is necessary to cover all areas of government. The fact that Foreign Minister Erjavec has not yet been on an official visit to the United States of America, I do not think he has any special value. The Foreign Minister also regularly met with the US Secretary of State, who also invited him to attend the Ministerial Meeting of the Global Coalition against DAESH, held in Washington in July 2016. Last but not least, the President of the United States, the Prime Minister of the State, was there, and there were also some ministers. In conclusion, I think our relations with the United States are perfectly correct, good, normal. Speaking of the United States, I also need to talk about Russia. Despite what is happening in Europe and the world at this time, despite the fact that the European Union has imposed sanctions on Russia for events in Ukraine and the Crimea, that Russia has then imposed some sanctions, that there are problems between Russia and NATO, Russia and the United States of America, I will not say well that I will not be taken by anyone, but by relations with the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation is an important foreign trade partner of Slovenia. And one day, when this situation calms down, I hope and believe that sooner or later it will be, it will be very important that Slovenia, as a country that, despite everything I have counted, will continue to have political relations with Russia. By the way, also many EU countries continue to maintain these political contacts because this is something normal in these international relations, and that we will then have easier access to this market, which is still interesting to us. Another eyewitness I might have read here. Therefore, the inefficient activities of the Republic of Slovenia in the area of south-eastern Europe and the Western Balkans. I don't really agree here either. I think that Slovenia is very active in this area. Let's just remember that Slovenia has been providing assistance all the time to say Montenegro in its approximation and integration into NATO, the same as Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have relations with Macedonia and Serbia, so I can't really accept that too. Then, in this interpretation, there are a number of such perceptions, which I am about to shorten this debate, so that my colleagues and colleagues will come to the floor, and I will not discuss now, but I will provide further information if necessary, and I believe, including my colleagues and colleagues. To conclude, of course, I would like to talk about something which, in this interpretation, of course, is clear, we are not and we cannot find. This is because this is one extremely positive, excellent issue, I am talking about this economic diplomacy, which I have already mentioned at the beginning of this debate today. In the past, the Presidents of governments or the Presidents of the State, as well as some foreign minister, have ever taken economic delegations to their official visits. But only in 2014, when he became Foreign Minister Karl Erjavec again, in this last government, the current foreign minister introduced this economic diplomacy as a compulsory part of Slovenian foreign policy and the functioning of the Slovenian foreign ministry. Now I will also illustrate this with some numbers and data, because I think it is right to talk about this and that our citizens and citizens hear it. We are going to 2014 when Karl Erjavec became Minister for Foreign Affairs. At his first official visit to the Czech Republic, in Prague, he immediately took along a delegation of logistics companies, and the first business forum was organized. Then comes 2015, where the activity of economic diplomacy increases significantly. First, a visit to the Republic of Korea in Seoul from 11 to 13 March was made. At this official visit in Korea, the Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac was accompanied by a delegation of representatives of the Slovenian automotive cluster. Among other things, members of the delegation visited the research and development centre of the car manufacturer Hyundai Kia and the production plant of the Slovenian company Kolektor, which represents the largest Slovenian investment in the Republic of Korea. 6 Slovenian companies took part in the delegation. He followed an official visit by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Brazil, where Karl Erjavec joined the delegation of the Association of Informatics and Telecommunications during his working visit, the Minister and the companies participated in a business forum, the statute of the Slovenian-Brazil Chamber of Commerce was signed, business meetings were organised for companies and separate meetings with representatives of Brazilian companies. On their way back to Peru, Lima. There were also representatives of the economy. On 12 June, he followed an official visit to Hungary in Budapest. As part of his official visit, a logistics conference was held, attended by 8 Slovenian companies in the field of transport and logistics. The visit to Ukraine in Kiev on 14 July was followed again as part of an official visit by the Foreign Minister. At that time, representatives of the participating four companies met with representatives of the Ministries of Infrastructure, Defence, Agriculture and Other Sectoral Ministries and Railways. The Minister and the companies also met with representatives of the Ukrainian Business Club. This story then continued with a visit to the Russian Federation in Kazan. A business forum and business meetings of Slovenian and Russian business entities from four sectoral areas and meetings of Slovenian economists with Slovenian government representatives took place at the meeting of the intergovernmental mixed commission for economic cooperation at the level of foreign ministers. On the Slovenian side, 26 representatives of companies took part in the business event. Of course, Milana 2015 EXPO followed. During the period from 7 to 9 October, a branch delegation of 25 representatives from furniture companies and designers and representatives of ministries and institutions rushed to this world exhibition. Minister of Foreign Affairs Karl Erjavec opened a business conference of the woodworking industry at the time. Then we come to 2016 and this successful story, as I tell it myself, and I think you have to admit that, too, it continued. First, a working meeting was followed by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and Hungary in the Republic of Slovenia. The working meeting was chaired by the Foreign Ministers of both countries. Here was a signed memorandum on integrated development of transport infrastructure relations, and this is an important progress in cooperation with projects of strategic and economic importance both for the country and for the wider region. Visit of Minister for Foreign Affairs Karl Erjavac with an economic delegation to Morocco from 4 to 6 April. The Minister met with senior representatives of the State, together with company representatives. At the time of the visit, double taxation agreements and an international road transport agreement for passengers and goods were signed, allowing the smooth flow of road transport, thus facilitating the trade flows of seven Slovenian companies. Then came an official visit to Belarus. The foreign minister was accompanied by representatives of Slovenian companies: Duol, Riko, Krka, Lindap, MP Climate, Iskratel, Typhoon LIV and representatives of Helios, Wravor and Sberbanke. These are already established companies in Belarus and want to expand their operations. He followed a visit with an economic delegation back in Bulgaria, meeting with Bulgarian economists. Twelve Slovenian companies attended this meeting. These members of the economic delegation came from the fields of defence, information and communication technology, trade, electricity and energy. Then came meetings of the co-chairs of the Slovenian-Russian Inter-Governmental Trade and Economic and Scientific Cooperation Commission, as well as a visit by the Minister of Knowledge in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where a joint declaration on economic cooperation in third markets and a memorandum on cooperation in the field of tourism was signed. And, of course, this will continue in the following year 2017. Let me say that it is already envisaged to visit the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Turkey and to meet with the Mixed Economic Cooperation Commission with Turkey, then to visit the Russian Federation. Here the Foreign Minister, with an economic delegation, will travel to Russia with a mixed economic cooperation commission. Then the meeting in Turkmenistan, then the possibility or meeting of a mixed committee for economic cooperation, will most likely be in Slovenia, Egypt and a possible visit by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, together with an economic delegation in Senegal and later a possible visit with a business delegation on the 150th anniversary of Canada's existence in Canada. In some ways, however, this economic diplomacy has been experienced today, I have already said that when the President of the State and the Foreign Minister reopened the embassy in Tehran and there are 50 Slovenian economists. So much for once about this debate on my part. Like I said, if I have to, I'll call you later. As far as interpolation is concerned, let me just say, I won't support it, even though I don't know if it's going to be necessary or not, whether we're going to vote on anything or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the word to prepare the mags. Alena Bratušek and Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In fact, these interpretations are extremely interesting and sometimes useful. I myself, with numerous interventions by the Slovenian Democratic Party in particular before Twitter time, even wrote that it might be good to have, like the Members' questions every first Monday, perhaps every first Monday further in order and after a list of interpretations where we are familiar with the more detailed work of each ministry, dissecting policies and then quietly continuing our work. Even though we probably will not accept it as procedurally or place it in the business logic of this assembly, this is happening to us, and I think it is good, because we can think and think about certain things. In fact, something nice has happened today, at least from my point of view, that for the first time, there is more confidence and more joy to interpret it on the Government's side than on the proposaler's side. At least if I conclude from the energy and tone and colour levels shown by the proposer in presenting this interpretation, and if I compare this to the energy shown by, for example, the Prime Minister or, for example, Vice-President Židan. And that kind of makes me happy because it shows that on the one hand, the opposition is under pressure by ruling in most cases, of course not in all, doing well and going well for the country, but the elections are relatively close, quite high. But of course it's the grip of the opposition. But it is good for the citizens that this is not their own tribulation, but something that is good news for them. And this confidence, or, if you want, the color in voice intensification is also shown through some of the most crucial results that are essentially conditioned by which is the leading party and who is the one that individual ministries in the given context lead. If the shift, because it has been exposed several times today by the proposaler to what has happened in the past and why it has not been different, I would draw on the last ten years and compare the government led by the conservatives, the governments led by the liberals and perhaps the one led by the Social Democrats, to say that during the conservative government to close the country, the minimum wage of EUR 597 was recognized, then the biggest rise in the minimum wage of the Social Democratic Government of Borut Pahor to EUR 734, and in the time of the liberal government, however, the minimum wage of EUR 790 we have today. All of this gives color and tone to politics and government leadership. If I am also in some trouble due to yesterday's events on the initialisation of the agreement with Fides, which I strongly disagree with, because I feel that this is a wrong move, especially with regard to the adoption of an agreement with the wider public sector, I am, after a presentation today by Mr Janez Janša, quite calm that we have this government, even though it is more liberal in some respects than my starting point, and even though the growth of the minimum wage may be lower than it would have been if the government could be fully led by the Social Democrats. But that's another question. It is crucial in the analysis or analysis of the work of the government and ministers that we look at politics. If, for example, the agricultural sector has long been regarded as a source for the distribution of subsidies and has often been understood by right governments, who are particularly inclined to declare that they care for rural areas and periphery, such as a peripheral spatial story, we now have a portfolio that has a different vision, which understands agriculture as an important economic sector, which understands agriculture as something that has an exceptional economic range and can be understood through the prism of internationalisation, through the prism of promotions and not only through the prism of distribution and support, but through the management and achievement of growth. Why am I saying this? Because, despite one of the worst crises in the price of milk, for example, which has also resulted from the European Union's external policy with sanctions for Russia, the policy that has focused on alternative markets, which has focused on boutique products of both milk and honey, for example, and its economic activity, which is not a primary source of agriculture, allows me to expand to markets such as China, achieve a higher price, achieve boutiqueism, and consequently increase added value within Slovenian agriculture, the possibility of introducing additional, better technologies, growth and higher living standards in rural areas. In other words, it places the countryside at the side of the centres, industrial or urban, and offers equal opportunities for the life and development of all citizens and citizens. And that's the color and tone that Mr. Židan gives at this ministry. If we say a question that I personally felt was possibly trivial at times or a while ago, it is extremely important, it is the world’s bee day. It is not only a question of bees or bees, or the recognition of Slovenia in the world, which, you will not believe, but more than walk and wherever I go, more people say that it is a good move, a good product, that it is a closed unit of a policy that we should recognize and appreciate. In particular, it is a matter of reporting that the world must remain on the foundations of sustainable development, that agricultural policy must see part as only subsidies and that it must recognise key products. If beekeeping in Slovenia has been neglected for many years, today in beekeeping we can identify an important industry that can grow from boutique agricultural production to a serious industrial industry for key markets that are many times larger than Slovenia. And to say again that it's not just subsidies and it's not just distribution. It's a matter of taking over by young farmers. So much money and so much support as is available in this government's mandate, starting with a transitional government, that young people stay on farms to work to develop innovation has never been introduced. And that's the color of the policy that this government is giving. That's the direction he's got. Interpelling the maximum amount of money, the maximum number of support policies for young people to stay in the countryside, to work not to run elsewhere, that's the least of it, senseless and illogical. But it is true that Miran the Runer wrote in his memory meaningfully: Call for understanding. One who interprets such a policy has yet to think about this title. But I'm afraid for a lot of people, this call to reason is really mere memorabilia. That, because my colleague Peter focused more or less on the defence of Desus's department, I will shift to the Social Democrats' department, where there is also a tone and color in the area of defence. During the next budget period, we will be able to allocate the Slovenian Army 42 million more – in the next budget period, Jean, we have a two-year budget, add up! – we will be able to devote significantly more. And it's a policy question of how to divide it and where we're going to put it. We can give everything for additional weapons to say, for example, in some government for the Patria, but we can focus first and urgently on correcting the material status of soldiers and soldiers, and when we also have a well-known strategic review of the defence, we can make a plan to update the Slovenian Army technologically and infrastructurally. If we are already dissecting each and every one of these interpretations today, we can find that this key regulation on the classification of formational titles in the Slovenian Armed Forces payroll classes has been prepared by the Ministry, and tomorrow, if I understand correctly, in the Government, which means for two wage classes to raise income for members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is part of the agreement that we have both heard within the government when the status of police and police officers was better regulated after the longer sentence. And this is again the direction and tone of this government, which is fundamentally different from the direction and tone shown by the proposer. Finally, for the first time in a long time, for the next budget period, the defence sector will have even a nominally higher amount of resources available than, for example, in the last government of Mr Janez Janša. Although many want to understand politics only as a redistribution of something, what we heard yesterday is also extremely important, and that is that our security system today understood that it must seek its foundations primarily within volunteerism and that despite some aspirations after full professionalization we must strengthen the spirit of politics "nothing should surprise us". Here I am thinking mainly of accelerated cooperation to strengthen firefighting, civil protection and also the work of local communities in this area, which has probably been lagging behind in the last period. And since it is a tendency to say that everything is bad in the work of this government with its ministers, I can ask myself whether the relationship would then establish its mountain fighting centre in Slovenia if our defence systems or our Slovenian army were as bad as they try to show for a moment by the proponents. Probably not. Let me also touch at a smaller point the station, which is closest to me, for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities. This is one of the areas around which there is usually the most talk, the most debate, the most criticism, of course in addition to the Ministry of Finance, but it is, of course, a resort, which also covers the largest set of policies concerning man, from birth to death. Only a few of the key effects or achievements of this department may be to begin. For many years we had a student job as something that was an anomaly in the labour market, something that you didn't get any rights from, but you paid more than you earned. Today, about three months in the year students, students and students also receive work-life insurance for retirement from this title, and I have not had this option. It is prepared for the first time, not at the last moment, but with some view also the white book on pension reform, which will be necessary, because I have an ageing society, because we have to address these issues and, last but not least, Slovenia has achieved, although many times we stress, there is no insignificant data, less than 100,000 unemployed at the same time as an increase in the labour force. These are not insignificant things, nor is it irrelevant that, although unfortunately not with the consent of all political parties, we were able to agree on a law on the prevention of domestic violence. Here in these areas, much more will have to be done, especially because there is a discourse of understanding that equality and creating equal opportunities are extremely important, diminishing and because not only in us, but also in Europe and in the world are those who think that they can arrange all the free hands of the market and that what is happening in the family is just a matter of family. And another thing my colleague Han has asked me to say is right, because Mr Janša is here – Social Democrats we have gladly participated in a project called the Partnership for Development, and I also think today that this is one of the better initiatives that Slovenian policy has succeeded. It may not be a missed opportunity to establish something similar in this mandate. However, it has been said, I believe that unintentionally, one false fact that the Social Democrats supported the tax solutions of the then government. If anyone is interested, here is the list of votes, we did not support them, because even though we understood the Partnership for Development as an opportunity for Slovenia to overcome some division, what is most important to us is human, we could not simply forget. And there may be a difference here between colleague Janša and colleague Pahor, who is not sitting in the back row, but is today the President of the Republic and can be measured nominally. The difference is in nominal salary between 597 and 734. And this is the difference between the vision offered by the proposer and the vision as understood by us. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I apologize if I have been too long, I wish you a successful day and I wish that the debate would run with significantly higher dynamism than it did in the proposal's speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u38	Dear ministers, ministers, presidents, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! I can't help but look at the government, ministers and ministers from the human side. I know it's not easy to be a minister or a minister, I know that it requires a lot of denial, that it requires us to be almost 24 hours present, many obligations, many tasks, family suffering and so on. I am therefore convinced that every minister or minister has tried to make a lot of positive in his mandate. However, the opposition is not about praising the government, so I will focus mainly on the things that bother me or I do not think are good enough or not good enough. Of course, I can't talk about everything because I don't have enough time. I think that he has already said the most about our position, already the leader of our parliamentary group, Matthew Tonin, who has shown by the graphs that in fact we need to make a substantial change in the policies of this government, or if we want to take significant steps forward in Slovenia, we must also radically change some policies. They say the word reform is not popular. I have heard many times, in particular from Mr Erjavac, that reform means denial, and that is bad, and that is difficult. And I say it's like listening to a kid in kindergarten who won't let us rip his cod out because it hurts. But some things just have to hurt and we have to make them, root changes, because then these changes also have positive consequences for the future. When we adopted the budget, the European Commission's response was that Slovenia is taking too little steps, that there are great risks, that we still have a state bank that poses risks, that there are still many state-owned enterprises, and all these are major risks to the stability of the country, as well as to improve credit ratings. So we have not made significant radical changes and reforms in this area. In the presentation we saw again what we all know is that the demographic picture in Slovenia is extremely poor, that the number of ageing populations is rising rapidly. This also threatens the pension system, thus increasing the waiting period in health care. Therefore, in these areas too, fundamental changes should be made to the long-term sustainability of both the health and pension systems. It's going to hurt in some way, too, but if we don't want these two systems to fail completely, we have to make these changes. During the two years of this government's reign, there have been no concrete changes, except for some cosmetic corrections. What you'd read to the government is a frame-up. We know that some names known from other times have caused discomfort, mistrust, some have been replaced, some may still be in these positions. And since these old names keep going on, there is a lot of mistrust for these people, or there is still the belief that there are lobbies in the background that live at the expense of the state and take advantage of state finances both in health care, infrastructure, banking and elsewhere. A few more specific things people talk about. In particular, the Minister of Labour would ask whether it is true that the centres for social work issue non-professional or not good enough decisions and then the country, when citizens complain, loses procedures or has to pay high damages. According to some data, this is 50%, some say that even more, so I specifically ask you whether this is true. When we meet with the mayors, we often hear that the state administration is ineffective, that they have a lot of problems, that the new financial perspective does not work, that they do not really know what projects will be adopted. So the public administration is ineffective, and on the other hand, we've heard again, and we've seen on the graph that by more than 3,000 people, it's increased again. If the ZUJF has helped us reduce the public administration, it is now increasing again. Of course, we need new jobs, people need to be employed, but our public administration is already too large. That is why we need to reduce public administration, not additional employment in public administration, but also inefficiencies. Justice. Indeed, we have passed some laws, but when we talked about Factor Bank and Probank or the report of the commission that reviewed this business, we found that no one is actually responsible for this. Of course, the Justice Minister cannot directly order what needs to be done, but some major shift in this area was not that they could say "those were punished, someone returned the money they borrowed in one way or another," and so on. Citizens expect something to be clarified, however, something happens that some big camera action is not enough for people to believe that we really have become a state of law. Earlier, the President of the Government had praised us for being the greenest destination. Of course we are, but also on this account that the population is concentrated in cities, while the countryside is sadly leaving and our hills are growing. I must say that I am happy that an investor will come to Slovenia. That's right, we need new jobs. However, I do not agree with such a way of solving such a problem or the opportunity to adopt a new law ad hoc, we turn 100ha of land into an economic zone, those hectares of land that have been processed. Instead of having a long-term plan and adopting such spatial acts, where we would have planned ahead where the areas where we would invite investors are. We cannot agree with such a solution or a quick solution to problems, but we meet again and again entrepreneurs, whom we know they want to expand production, and for years and years they do not get permission to expand their production of halos, for example 50 metres. That is why also the laws on construction, the adoption of spatial acts have not yet been done, and here I expect this government to come with these laws that will allow for faster action. Not just this special law for a particular contracting entity. Well, there's something else I'd like to warn the Minister of the Interior. I'm very concerned when they report to me how many recent attacks on priests have occurred. How many attacks, robberies, were we just watching yesterday, what happened at the church in Koper when someone injured these two statues — will we find the perpetrators? Even in attacks on priests, when they're robbed, some are beaten, some even have fatalities, there's no perpetrator. And I'd like to ask you whether you're doing anything in this area or not. We do know, however, that every debate here in Parliament, which is also impatient for the Church, and I do not defend any of its sins, nor do I encourage any aggression in citizens. We should also be aware of this in our discussions. So much for once that my colleagues might be able to say something.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Prepare to be Mrs Janja Slug and Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers! I would also be much more pleased if we were dealing with projects for the future today. But that's the way it is. The biggest opposition party has made up its mind, made an intervention, I just want to, or I hope that they also have a goal to achieve at the end of this debate. But when I listen to the coalition when I listen to the coalition MPs, I wonder if this coalition even exists. Desus defends his own, SD defends his own, and SMC defends his own. Is it called a team that will lead Slovenia to a better future? The team is supposed to combine some unity, connection, common goals. So, in fact, this beginning and this introductory debate really don't give me much to worry about. Maybe that's why the president of the government talks so many times about political stability, because it's not actually there. Because he knows or feels what's going on inside the coalition. The most interesting was the first performance by a colleague from Desus, who did not even mention with a word what happened to pensions in two years, but here he had exposés on foreign policy and reading the character of Karl Erjavac. Okay, okay, this may be the only thing Desus cares about in this government, but that's how the performances I hear come out. The fact is, you and I have been behind you for two years, in fact, ours. And let's ask ourselves, really, honestly, what are the results of this government. Look honestly in the mirror and list the results of this government's work. I think the answer will be very, very short. The President of the Government said he had taken up his mandate in a difficult economic crisis. I hope whoever wrote this to him at least looked at the numbers. In 2014, when you and Mr Cerar took over government leadership, we were at 3.1% economic growth. Today we're at 2.2, 2.3%. I think, what an economic crisis in 2014, Mr Prime Minister is talking about. I have a sincere interest in answers. And, yes, you've turned the trend, just in the wrong direction, that's the problem. And the consequences of this work will have to be remedied by the governments that are coming after you. In 2013, a respected president, who is unfortunately not with us, may have failed, at the time you were asked to help the country. At that time, you were asked to take over the leadership of the government. At a time when the country was really on its knees, in the most difficult times, when the loss of sovereignty really threatened, when the ladies and gentlemen of the so-called "troika" were really knocking on the door. But then your answer was no. Because it was more important to set up a client than to save the country. That's a fact. That's a fact! You turned your back on the country in the most difficult times. Three things are, in a way, the daily vocabulary of the Prime Minister: political stability, public financial stability and economic growth. Political stability, I have already said this in the beginning, and today's discussions between colleagues and coalition colleagues show how solid this coalition is. Everyone fights and pulls only for their own, it shows the spirit of the team sitting in front of us. And in the end, you have to turn your back on the ministers within the government, this coalition, and we have to save her in the opposition to remain a minister. Is that what you call political stability?Oh, my God! And something similar could probably happen to someone else. Public financial stability. The fact is that the budget deficit is shrinking, which is good. The second fact is that it only decreases on paper, which is not good. The budget you adopted last week is as hollow as ever before. You don't know what's going to happen to the public sector. Now you've promised doctors from this same budget an additional 40 million where you'll take it, no one can tell. The European Commission has put Slovenia in the group of the worst countries for 2017, except Greece, where the programme of the troika is still under way. There is no worse group than the one in which Slovenia is once again. And this means nothing more than a journey into the credibility of our country, which, of course, is a shame. And it'll be expensive again. Today, in his defense, if I may say so, the president has said quite a few fat things. One is about 50,000 extra-employees. I hope, once again, that you have at least looked at how many children are born a year in our country, because that means that you should employ about three generations of children. This is, of course, far from the truth. I would also like to hear where these 50,000 young people are actually employed. I also hope that you have not counted abroad, where unfortunately many, sometimes too many of our young are leaving. That's the first big lie I've ever used. And the second, which is also the so-called stand of Mr Cerar, is how he expelled the troika from Slovenia. I believe that when he looks in the mirror, he knows it's a fat lie and that he actually has nothing to do with it. You could if you had the courage to do what you had to do in 2013. But that's when he said no to the state. Perhaps once again the appeals to those who are preparing for the president are telling them to look at the numbers and operate on real data. Yeah, there's gonna be a lot of words today. I just wish they were real. Not fooling people, those who know, can look at the data, but it's not nice. Let's operate on data that's valid and counted. I'm sorry, and I've already said that, in fact, the only threesome the Prime Minister has really driven out of our country, ethics, morality and honesty. It's just gone in our country. And from the pre-election promises – you can all look at it and look at it, there is nothing left. In fact, they were the only promises, and there was nothing left of them. “We can’t win on all fronts immediately,” he said yesterday. I agree, but at least some fight would be good in two years. I'm sure there are more fronts open today than there were two years ago. And I'm going to try to summarize very briefly the biggest. Health care. The waiting species have 30% higher, with € 160 million more in the health treasury. How is that possible? How is that possible? This is the result of the work of this minister, this government and this coalition. Yesterday we listened, a successful agreement – I wish I could be a successful agreement, because what doctors say hurts people the most. But today it's turning into dust. At least two government parties say that this cannot be believed and that this arrangement does not drink water. This is not how countries, governments, ministries or health care are run. Public sector. You also have an open front here. Cops have been out there for a year. As a result, safety on our roads has decreased — who will be responsible? Clearly, human life doesn't count any more with us. At present, education is still a part of the public sector. Osilnica branch primary school. The government simply shuts it down and then, at the call of the National Assembly, decides to re-establish it, and the irony is that the SMC's top representatives on social networks hope to record that this is a feat of the local SMC committee. First they cancel, and then it's a hoax from the local SMC committee to get the school back in place. This is how SMC communicates with Slovenians and Slovenians. Right in the face of ridicule. The municipalities. You can't find a common language with the congregations either. From year to year, and don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, that you have a billion more than we had two years, three years ago. You've got a billion more fronts open, and you've got almost a billion more. Even at the fourth year of economic activity, pensioners do not deserve full valorisation. 40 cents is too much for Slovenian pensioners. For the government, of course. State property. As bad as the state's property is being done today, it's not happening yet. From the affair to the affair, starting with the New Ljubljana Bank, where you wanted to set up three supervisors who didn't even meet the conditions. This is a picture of this government and this coalition. Staffing. From pâté to screws, everything that falls in between. This is a picture of this government and this coalition. We could add up, but as I said, I want to talk more about the future of our country, and I want this government and this coalition to really bring into the National Assembly measures that could provide us with these talks, so that I can take this opportunity and call you to really start doing what you promised before the elections. Mr Cerar, I think it is still time for you to look in the mirror and find that this is no longer the Mira Cerar that was two years ago, and to start finally doing what you promised Slovenians and Slovenians before the elections. As I said, there is still time for two years and you can at least try everything you promised our citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u41	Mr Janez Janša, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u42	Just for a little while, so it won't be forgotten. We've been asking the President of the Government all day, where are these 50,000 young people he's hired in the last two years, as he said at the beginning. I wonder if you have already found this list, where and when these 50,000 young people have been employed in Slovenia in the last two years, as the Prime Minister of the Government said in his performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u43	Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare for Mr Franz Breznik and Dr Dragan Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Of course, I am part of this team, which was discussed by my colleague Bratušek, and as a team, we also democratically shared our work and tasks on this team. And we split them up the way the colleague found out a little bit earlier. I hope we're allowed to do that. But I would still respond to this graph, which is constantly displayed wherever possible. While this graph does show an economic growth of 3.1% in 2013, of course it does not say why. This is because, in 2014 and 2015, European funds have been pumped back rapidly to allow this economic growth in 2013, if we are just being precise. I would also like to correct colleague Ludmila Novak, who spoke of 3,000 more employees. Of course, the data does not hold, as she referred to it. In the public administration, the number of 3 000 appeared in service activities, which is said to be in the general public administration, which mainly concerns health and education. So where there was actually a need and a lack of personnel. In the public administration itself, as a narrow work, the number of employees has decreased for these 3,000, as the minister has already said today. And if I focus, because I am in our Group of Members at the beginning of the debates, I will focus mainly on today's interpretation. As colleague Wilfan said, today's government intervention is a third in the country's 25-year history. The applicant is once again the SDS Group, which does not do well to make up the content of interpolation and can boast the maximum number of interpolations that have been submitted so far. In front of the government of Mir Cerar, Drnovšek's government and Rop's government, as well as Borut Pahor's government, were also not ruled by Alenka Bratušek's colleague. What does that tell us? This tells us that there is obviously some political assessment by the most opposition party that this government, the government of Mir Cerar, is a serious obstacle to their re-invasion of power. The difference is that there is no possibility of early elections at this time and it is not possible to expect the early conclusion of this term. My colleagues and I in this house are a good half of the mandate, as we have already heard today, today is the day for the seventh interpolation we experience on our skin, and we are already eight. Somehow, there is the impression that there is only one competition in Parliament for initiatives and interpretations. Of course, between the SDS, New Slovenia and the United Left and the outgoing Member of the Czech Republic. Notwithstanding the fact that, for example, the SDS Group can, at any time with a sufficient number of signatures, interpellation, it also wants to consolidate its role as the largest opposition party in Parliament and the most qualified. Interpellation is a constitutional institution of parliamentary control. As we can see, it has already done well in practice. To this day, there have already been 38 interpretations in this house. Interestingly, only one of these 38 did not end with a vote. It was an interpellation of another government, pretended to be the government of the Robbins. This is also somehow understandable because it was invested at a time when the current government had already expired its mandate in 2004 and had actually been used more for some pre-election purposes. The National Elections were then held on 21 September and the interpretation was discussed on 1 September, just before the new elections. It follows from the theory that interpellation is a particular form of the public question raised or raised by a qualified majority of Members. As I have already said, the debate will follow, and a decision on the interpretation or non-trust of the Minister or Government under discussion will normally be taken, or at least by a vote on the adoption by the National Assembly of an opinion or position on the work of the Minister or the Interoperable Government. However, as can be seen from this time's text of the interpolation, as well as from the statements made by the Members of the type of proposer, this time the State Assembly will not decide after the end of the debate. And if I quote one of the proponents, my colleague Gorenak, in an interview with the magazine Reporter: "This is not an interpretation after which we would finally vote on the government. There will be no vote on the fate of the government at all. This is about the opposition facing the coalition." And why am I now referring to the questions of the Members in connection with the interpretation? As colleague Wilfan has already mentioned, and if I now give a total number, the SDS Group has already raised 2 000 526 questions to the government in this mandate. The recorder is once again a colleague of Gorenak's. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] , with 278 questions [[…]] [[Restlessness in the Vortex]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u45	May I have peace in the hall? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u46	I'm glad you like my debate so much. [[advertising from the hall]] Unfortunately, your party's president is somewhat damaging to you on average with a single question. And if we add to it today's public question, we will come up with two public questions. If I paraphrase some more assessments and statements that today is actually about the confrontation of Mr Janša and Dr Mir Cerar, and if I add another assessment, which also comes from the ranks of the biggest opposition party, that the President of the Government is conducting only oral exercises in response to parliamentary questions, then today I really wonder what we are doing here today, what is the meaning of this oral exercise, for which the applicant has reserved five and a half hours and in which we are forced by force of opportunity also in coalition. And that is precisely why and when I read this interpretation, I have found that it is essentially one rerun of the interpretations already carried out, a rerun of the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, some of the proposals that we have discussed on the proposal's initiative on individual committees as well as a rerun of all these questions raised by the Member States. That's why I really don't see any point in this. But I can say that this government is doing well, that it will work well, that it will continue to work with full steam, that it is already known on the ground and that it will become even more familiar in the second half of the term.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u47	Mr Janez Janša, Mr Anja Kopač Mrak, Minister for Labour, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Again, thank you to the previous speaker for his commendation. Thank you. Also a notice about the mandate. Look, your president turned down the calendar, but the other half of the term is already strong. If the elections end at the end of the term, they will be no later than June 2018, so you are already strong in the second half of the term and do not say what you will do in the second half of the term that has already taken place. I also advise that you do not draw knowledge of parliamentaryism and parliamentary work from Primorske novice, Dnevnik, Del and similar trumpets, but read the Constitution. If you read the Constitution, then there won't be any of these dilemmas about what we're going to do today. If we read the Constitution — within two years we could, since you are here — then we would see that the Constitution defines different interpretations against the minister and interpretation against the government. And here you're mixing interpellation against the government with a constructive non-trust, which is another instrument under the Constitution. A constructive non-trust may be lodged by 10 Members without interpretation. It's a separate instrument. Not only read Matta Roglič in the Journal, read the Constitution too, it will be clearer after what needs to be done. As far as the more important thing about which the government party is already being moved – the same thing the Minister of Public Administration did yesterday in Odessa – is the number of employees in the public sector. Look, here's your portal, official statistics, where all public offices are and so on. Here's the data. Printed today. The total number of employees in the public sector today in Slovenia is 173 000 132. If that's not true, then you need to figure out what they're publishing. By the end of our term of office in 2008, the total number of employees in the public sector was 155 thousand and 18 thousand less. By the end of 2013, when another government, Mrs Bratušek's government, had been employed, there were 158 000 and 15,000 less than today. So not only is it the difference of 3,000, if we look at your statistics, it's the difference of 18,000. Calculate the pressure on public finances since 2008 and the difference between 15 000 since 2013. He spoke of this statistics yesterday by his colleague Vinko Gorenak on television and about this same statistics, Minister Koprivnikar, had a change of heart. It's your statistics, I hope it's listed correctly. Earlier, a Member of the Social Democrats had made a correction regarding the party's vote when tax laws were adopted in our mandate 2004-2008. In part, I hold, I apologize, indeed, most of the members of the Social Democrats – here I have all the votes on these laws – voted against the reduction of corporate income tax, says she voted against the reduction of the burden of the economy, voting against the reduction of all other burdens, including the burden of wages or work. At only one tax, they had a dilemma, and I'll tell you what – at the tax on vessels, where we raised the tax. That's when we raised the luxury tax. And I will tell you how the colleagues of the SD Group voted. Mr. Han Matjaž – he is not here today – has supported this tax, he obviously has no vessel. Kumer Dušan also supported it. But everyone else didn't support it. Apparently, they all have ships. Queikl Milan did not support, Horvat Franc did not support, Juri Aurelio did not support, Kontic Bojan did not support, Kumer Dušan did not support, Weber Janko did not support, maybe he has some boat in Kočev, Rob Anton did not support, Ptrč Miran did not support, Waste Majda did not, neither did Pavliha Marko. You voted against the unloading of the economy, against the unloading of work, but you also voted against the extra taxation of luxury or did not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u49	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Maybe a little joke, I don't have a boat. There's a lot of talk today about achievements, inadequacies, data interpretations. I might nevertheless like to highlight one of the key areas that is important for the well-being of the people and the state of the country. That's the number of employees, that's the decline in the number of unemployed. Here we can say with all pride that the number has long fallen below 100,000 people. The fact is that the economic climate itself contributes significantly to this, but measures of active employment policy and in particular the Youth Guarantee are not negligible. And now I'm getting information that many times you or the president have asked me to explain where the number came from, you'll get the exact data. During the implementation of the Youth Guarantee 2014-2015, 49 thousand 181 young people were employed together. These are those who have checked out of the employment records of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which means that they have a working relationship in Slovenia and are registered in social insurance systems with us through the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment and Health Insurance. That's the official number. To be more precise, in 2014 there were 25 000 742 young people, in 2015 23 000 475, in this year's first 10 months 20 thousand 913, which means 1.9% more than in the same period last year. Here for this year, for 2016 you have the exact data in which the activities are, that is, 20 thousand 913 are in this year, such as in the field of electricity supply and steam 60, processing activity 3 thousand 420, agriculture, hunting, forestry, fishing 139, mining 24, construction of a thousand 659. These data are officially available, so there is no need to take a big guess about them. Another point that has been highlighted many times in the expulsion of young people, including the latest data from the SURS. If we look at 2014 and 2015, because we do not yet have data for 2016, we are talking about young people, according to the SURS data available, how many young people have moved in between 15 and 29 years of age and how many have moved out. From abroad, 4 000 272 young people aged between 15 and 29 moved to Slovenia in 2014, a total of 4 000 731. Moved abroad, 3 000 818 were such in 2014 and 4 thousand 42 in 2015. What's the difference between the tide and the tide? The migration rate of young people aged between 15 and 29 years is 454 and 689 in 2015. These are official statistics available in our country. I'm talking about official information. As far as the debate is concerned, our area, as has been said many times, covers the actual areas that concern each individual and is crucial to the welfare of citizens and citizens. Here within, I agree, there is a very important system of social security, employment, the labour market, in the labour market, to fight against criminal forms of employment. You have a package of amendments to the Labour Inspection Act, the Labour Relations Act and also the Labour Market Regulation Act, where we will try to move things forward in dialogue with the social partners, on the other hand we are aware of demographic movements. This demographic has been known for 10, 20 years. These data, as you mentioned, were made aware by 2060 and also by the Government of Janez Janša during the period 2004–2018, because unfortunately changes in the field of fertility, migration and these key data, which are, are still unchanged and are the reality of all governments so far. Absolutely every other one has so much less time to change things. In this area, this government has also drawn up a strategy for a long-lived society; in the labour market, we have prepared a comprehensive document for the Older in the labour market. The government will adopt an action plan, more than 50 measures. The white book is such a response. The fact is that the pension system, and I believe that you know this very well, cannot be changed quickly, that pensions are the consequences of the situation in the labour market for the last thirty years. You were asking and exposing the lowest pension. Unfortunately, this is the state of wages in our country and the changes that have been made. The pension reform 2013 has taken hold and has also halted the downward trend of pensions. It is important and also clear from the data. However, the fact is that if it were so easy to change, I believe that you have already raised the minimum pension to €550 in 2013, just as the minimum wage remained unchanged at the time of the biggest economic growth, the minimum income remained unchanged and remained unchanged until 2011, that is, from 2001, when our country introduced the minimum income of €158, then until 2011, this minimum income did not change, it was coordinated only with inflation and was at the time of the largest economic growth of €230. Similarly, the area of minimum wage has already been presented. But the fact is that these are difficult questions, which are mutually interconnected and portrayal, the way to quickly address changes that are structural, especially in pensions, is simply to deceive and make some false promises to people who unfortunately have little in common with reality. But we can change that by keeping in mind that we give people the opportunity to work. We are also preparing by European funds, for the first time so that employers can adapt to older people, so we are fully addressing these issues. We are also still putting an end to this in the area of social policy, particularly in family policy. If we look at the entire history of Slovenia, the period of the past has been most cut into family politics and as much as in the area of family policy and perhaps also the fertility that you have highlighted today has been taken away, this has not been the case throughout the entire period of our history. Perhaps only the answer, Mrs Ludmila Novak, I am not aware of this information. If I tell you the information, 750 thousand social work centres issue on average on an annual basis, we at the Ministry at the annual level are now receiving about 4,000 complaints after a new one. For example, the number of constitutional reviews of laws we had in 2015 and 2016 five. Four unconstitutionalities were identified. These are different laws, and I can say later, the number of administrative disputes is 384. Based on the number of decisions, you've been talking about 50%, there's no basis for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u51	Mr Janez Janša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u52	As for the real promises of social transfers and, above all, pensions, you need to clear this up in coalition. I was in the studio next to President Desus Karl Erjavac when he promised all pensioners at least a thousand euros of the average pension. Since people sometimes mix government, opposition and parliament with government and executive power and legislative power, sometimes I am asked when these thousands of euros will be received at the end of the month. Unreal promises fly, I'll say, more to the left. As far as this data on youth employees is concerned, thank you very much. I just don't know why you didn't write this to the Prime Minister. The president of the government said that 50,000 young people have been given jobs. When a person hears this, he thinks that the government has created such favourable conditions for economic growth, companies are investing, the needs for workers are increasing, more are produced, more konjunctura, they publish invitations, young people come forward and they get jobs. That's how it was heard, and that's how everyone understood. But it would be fair to say it like you said. The government has made a Youth Guarantee programme where the employer of a young person's job for two years is paid by you from the European Fund. That's it. And what happens after two years? In some parts, this is a good programme, we are not saying anything about it, but it has to be said that it is a government programme, that it is not a programme where the market has demanded more employees because of the greater needs of the market. It's not a permanent thing, but it's all under question. After two years, most of these employers will be ready to extend contracts if you extend the programme. Only these funds will run out. This way, the issue of unemployment is not permanently resolved. This is just a relief in a time of crisis, and the government says the crisis is gone. So it is not 50 000 young people who get jobs in Slovenia with employers through normal mechanisms, but it is a government programme that is subsidised.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u53	Minister of Labour Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u54	Just one short replica. Of course, the Youth Guarantees, when there were 9 million euros, could not be all of these young people. So there are real needs among these. For example, at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, an intervention law for the employment of young people was adopted and there were 4 000 600 jobs for indefinite youth. So these are the numbers. But the fact is, without economic growth and the intervention of the State, there would be no results.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u55	Mr. Franz Breznik, the word is yours, to prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. We have a few hours of debate. Let me begin by saying that the President of Parliament and the Vice-President of the largest coalition party today started with words and awakened, we can say that he reminded us of the holiday of our once, we can say that the Štajers appreciate him more than the Ljubljanaians, General Maistra. Today is his holiday. It's Styria's holiday. He was talking about visionary, he was talking about his courage, his determination, he was talking about someone who understood the time and place he lived in 98 years ago. Of course, he kept quiet that it was this holiday that the first Janša government woke up in 2005 and that Mr Janša also spoke in Maribor at that time. What matters is that he stressed or wanted to compare the determination of this government with that of General Maister. Look, I can also compare Mr. Mir Cerar to one general who is not General Master. This general wasn't just a general, he was even a marshal. His name was Grigory Pomkin. He lived in 1787 and then took Empress Katarina to the occupied area of today's Ukraine near Dniepra, and in these destroyed villages, where there was extreme poverty, he wanted to show something that was important that they had won. In this village, poor farmers, uneducated, dressed, brought from then on St. Petersburg a whole series of beautiful city clothes and dressed them in these clothes. He had thousands and thousands of people who built the scenes, and he drove Empress Katarina through these villages every day, of course from a distance, from a golden chariot, looking at these villages and telling incredible stories. Look, it's the only way I can compare with this story, with this myth of the village of Pomek, which exists, which is a parable of such a display of something that doesn't exist. This is an example of this government and just the continuation of something that people have been monitoring for decades in this country. Anyone who works in the public sector today, the lower jobs, can be said in the pay group J, farmers who have an average farm of less than 7 hectares, which is the Slovenian average, even a number of people working abroad in the same difficult places, and at home they get three times less pay and watch at home these bills. And the pensioners, who, due to this pension government, will increase by an average of 3 euros, I repeat, 3 euros, will be able to ask themselves why today I, as Franz Beznik, am talking about Pomakin and comparing this government with the villages of Pomkin. Because they are exactly the statisticians on this other side who have to live their lives, live their lives on the threshold of poverty, and have no options like those with comparable occupations abroad or in the world to which we compare ourselves. At the beginning of its creation, the Slovenian Democratic Party was the one who had already hit the scenes of Pomkin's villages in the previous country. She tore up the scenes on the entire line and paid a great price. Mr Jože Pučnik also began to undermine these scenes, he was given two jails when he also talked about agricultural policy, which has not changed almost in any way since the 1950s, in fact it is repeated, so he earned a few years in prison. And Mr. Janša. When he conquered Pomkin's village of the former communist regime, he was imprisoned. And a whole bunch of people like that, not to mention. It'd be too long. What I'm saying is that today we are undermining the village of Pomecin, opening only a few villages, which are scenes for the everyday problems of people working on the market, in that free market that are fighting in international competition. And for those of you, this story is important. What is important is this interpolation, this story is that they see that they live in an unreal world, that the world lives a completely different life around us, that we have, we can say, on the other hand, some optimism that some production from China is coming back. Today, even, I must admit, Minister Koprivnikar begins to use the expression of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. How do you imagine the Fourth Industrial Revolution by failing to implement reforms, by introducing perhaps the tax registers on the slowest internet we have in Europe and with the new stories of IT private companies that are close to you and that are working with the country today. And you talk about how much you've pulled with the cash registers, and you don't tell us what the cost has brought to you of the complete software and how much private companies have earned, which are close to you, with the registers. You're talking about the demographic fund. Look, we were talking about the scheming today. The demographic fund is a typical example of a more fluid, non-action, problem-solving at the end, not of the source. You're talking about a demographically distorted picture, and you're instituting a sex theory yourself. You had a referendum on a family, you broke up a classic family, you read the first government of Janez Janša that it happened at the time. I know that right then and then we started with politics to reward larger families. We gave incentives to these families, we built kindergartens in the countryside, schools to increase our fertility. Aren't those the right policies that give this country a chance? But you may see the fourth industrial revolution in that when Deutsche Telekom showed the least interest in buying Slovenian Telekom, you set up all the mechanisms for not selling yourself to Deutsche Telekom. My colleague Weber even used military intelligence to keep Telekom from selling himself. But, gentlemen, the Slovenian Democratic Party lives on the future. During this time when you were involved in the registration of mopeds up to 25, which was your great reform measure, Mr Janša sent me to BMW along with a number of craftsmen, where I was there with his colleague, who was a member of the strategic world, Dr. Anton Jurgec, you looked at what the fourth industrial revolution looked like. All you have with the fourth Industrial Revolution with BMW is that you bought a new BMW 740 diesel, that's the only thing that's your reform measure to get into the fourth Industrial Revolution. And look, Deutsche Telekom has driven the development of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. This is an institution that sets up the so-called highway, internet highway and fast, super fast internet. He has special super-fast special solutions for logistics, robotics and everything. Look, gentlemen, you don't live real life, as I said, we have a dictatorship of the public sector here in Parliament. You've lived your life and you're the ideological successors of those who were 70 years ago in Slovenia, those craftsmen, the industrialists who were then on top of the second industrial revolution, you took away from those people the possibility of ever coming into the third industrial revolution. You live in another industrial revolution, and with your ideology, we will end there. How do we get out of the second industrial revolution to the fourth if we don't follow some normal path? With the FDV footage, the sciologists, the polytologists? This is the fourth industrial revolution? The Fourth Industrial Revolution — Engineers, Technicians. There should be an engineering chamber here today, more of these people who produce value added products that we can sell. With this, we will pay taxes, which will give us higher pensions, and we will indeed eventually reach a thousand euros for pensioners and everyone else. Your Honor, this is reality! This is the backstage of the village of Tomkin, which I'm going to explain. We're being punished for it. We're being punished for showing people the real picture. We used to talk about boats. Look, you're on the boat that the wind is carrying, these waves that carry it are the situation around us that rule. They are currently favourable, they are favourable to economic growth, they are beneficial to foreign investment if you make reforms. And this is that real picture, this is a time of lost opportunity that counts in seconds, not in minutes, dear fellow! This is the story of Slovenia. If we want to reach another Switzerland, and still believe in it, the Slovenian Democratic Party and many people who are fighting in foreign markets every day, we still believe in another Switzerland. We believe we'll reach it. But when the scenes of Tomkin's village fall when this ignorance falls, this bureaucratic thought that reigns in the National Assembly will reach another Switzerland. Not that we're being punished, to tell us how many questions we've asked. Thank you! This is my debt to my people who elected us. This is a debt to those who suffer every day, who are the voice of the unheard in the desert, who daily tell you that they cannot live such a life that they are evicted from Slovenia daily. And here you lie and talk about information that isn't real. Dear colleagues, let me finish. You win a lie, you work a lie, and you end up lying. The scenes of the village of Pomjakin in Slovenia will fall, I am sure, a great optimist, and then the citizens and citizens will also give you an account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u57	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. Get ready, mags. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mrs Ksenija Krenjak Kramar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable all those who monitor regular and frequent interpretations in the National Assembly! For starters today, it would be good to set up a somewhat broader horizon and ask who is actually investing in interpolation and with what kind of moral and political capital it is investing in how sober the investor is to judge the interpolation according to his past statements and views. Then there will probably be a clearer motive and justification for the charges. If we look at just a few of the indicators recorded by the government of Mir Cerar compared to the government led four years ago by the speaker of the interpretation of Janez Janš, we will get the following picture. This year we have 2.7% economic growth in the last quarter, during the time of the government of Janez Janša we had the same number, but minus before it, so minus 2.7% economic growth. The public deficit was below 2.2% this year, in 2012 it was around 4% and then increased to 14.7% in 2013. The number of unemployed fell below 100,000 during this government period, with the end of the government of Janez Janša approaching 120 thousand. The government of Mira Cerar now sees 38% of citizens as successful. The Government of Janez Janša supported between 18 and 20 % between July 2012 and February 2013. The contentment index with life in Slovenia is also very eloquent. According to the Eurobarometer – and this is not a Udbomafian institution – this spring the share of satisfied citizens in Slovenia was 90%, while the government of Janez Janša was less satisfied with the lives of a quarter of Slovenians, 65% said. Well, this latest information is not surprising, as then Prime Minister Janša went on to treat Slovenia with a doctrine of shock. At that time Janša cut the social state as a salami in Slovenia, fired public servants, reduced salaries and pensions, cut the budget, extinguished economic growth, threatened trade unions, policemen, professors and other groups of the population, announced lustration by its taste and so on. It is no wonder, then, that we had an emergency situation in the country, and it is no wonder that at that time thousands of people were besieged by Parliament and Government, which had to be protected by heavily equipped police units behind the barricades. On the other hand, the same President Janša, in his statements, violated confidence in Slovenia abroad. For example, on August 31, 2012, he stated, quote: "The possibility of borrowing a country that is urgently needed for the recovery of loans and interest is already extremely difficult, virtually impossible. In October, we are threatened with illiquidity if we fail to sell our bonds. In the middle of the next year, we suddenly have to repay 2 billion euros in debt and interest. This will be impossible if we do not take the necessary measures in the autumn." End of quote. According to this Janša statement, Jože is a well-known economist. Mr. Damian wrote on his blog, quote: “Suppose that your acquaintance lived a little beyond his capabilities and that he has picked a significant minus on the current account of his bank. The second bank is asked for a cash loan to cover the illegal negative situation in the current account. All the documents had already been settled, only the credit committee had yet to confirm the credit, and then there was no way for it, the local officer said that it would become inequitable by the end of the month and that it would not escape personal bankruptcy if the bank did not grant him this credit. What would you say to this acquaintance? That he's a perfect idiot? That he's out of line? Well, what would you say about Prime Minister Janez Janša, who did the same last Friday? What would you do if you were a potential financial investor, do with a country where the President of the Government says it would become insolvent if you didn't lend him money? And that even if you lend it to him, he needs it more next year. Would you finance such a country that, according to the Prime Minister, is already on the verge of bankruptcy? What about the Prime Minister of the Government who makes such foolish statements? That he's kind of out of line, isn't he? What's wrong with this Prime Minister? Is he trying to save this country, or is he trying to get it into bankruptcy?” End of quote. So is economist Jože P. Damian. Further developments are well known. The statements of then President Janša sparked wide international speculation about the bankruptcy of Slovenia, the ratings fell, the premiums on state long-term bonds went to the sky, Slovenia was on the front pages of the international press, which further raised Slovenian state securities across borders. A troika was called and wanted to give up Slovenia's financial and, as a result, political sovereignty. Just before, Janez Janša was here regrettingly remembering these times and lamenting why Slovenia did not then opt for so-called international assistance. Sadly, this did not happen because his government had fallen before. In his view, this international aid would be cheap, should be considered public debt and how terrible it is that we have lost this opportunity. I think that these statements are about gross underestimation of citizens. Even the simplest worker knows she didn't have lunch for free. “No free lunch.” And it is probably clear to everyone that he wanted to dismantle the social state, because the conditions under which they would receive this international aid are more than clear. That's what the Minister of the Jews used to say. The conditions would be clear, reducing public services, reducing public education, reducing pensions, social contributions and so on and so on. Economist Velimir Bole recently calculated that panic, drama and crisis hysteria, driven by such irresponsible statements, cost us all but one and a half billion euros to save the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank. Today’s government is also saving this infamous legacy from 2012 and 2013, and it also receives this series of interpretations. However, all citizens have been paid and we are still paying substantially too much for the rehabilitation of the banks because, as Jože P. Damian, former Prime Minister Janez Janša said. And speaking of Spain, Mr Janša mentioned Spain as an example where nothing happened, because they accepted this aid, let me just mention that the state bonds of the Spanish State are selling by half a percentage more expensive than Slovenian, and that there is a public debt of 100% of the gross product while we have 83%, and the limit of satisfaction with life is there according to the Eurobarometer to 75%. That doubt about the soberness of Janez Janša’s judgment remains today, he will take care of his own media performances. Recently, Mr Janša, the initiator of this and other interpretations that we have on the agenda, gave the public a large interview in Democracy, however. There he sincerely presented his political views. Apart from standard accounts with all parliamentary political parties in Slovenia and many politicians, he also attacked his recent supporters and associates. Most of the interviews, however, refer to the instigation of the Udba — in the manner of the famous film hero Van Helsing, a vampire hunter. All political developments around him, which are not led by the SDS or himself, Janša perceives as a conspiracy to interlocutors or SDV hunters. At one point in this interview, Janša stated that it is impossible to build a good future for Slovenia, even if we would have had 10% economic growth, in worship of criminals of the former regime, or of the old, with the Widba swindled. Furthermore, his statement on the construction of the SDV, which his two governments failed to transfer from the Owl to the Archives of Slovenia, was grotesquely sincere. For he himself displays a certificate of naivety and incompetence. When the journalist asked him if he knew that his director, Sove Črnčec, had failed to carry the archives of the Owl to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, Janša said he did not know. And when journalist Janša asks again, quote, “are the other documents of SDV actually in Sova?” Janša resists, quote, “Yes, also some who are very important for today’s influence of the audience network in the country, and there will be no mistake, naiveness about Damir Črnčec is my only mistake.” End of quote. Mr. John Janez Janša, you are calling yourself naive. How can the naive put up a series of interpretations and want to take power? You were Prime Minister twice. The discussion with the Udba and the rest of the communist regime, which you think is still in control of Slovenian society, is the heart of your political agenda, from the end of the 1980s to the right-wing Communist. As Prime Minister, therefore, we should take special care of this in your opinion as the most important task, because you say that this is a prerequisite for the good future of Slovenia and also economic growth. But you've already done this twice completely dilettrate. Two people were responsible for the transfer of material from the former SDV or Udba. In the first case in 2008, this was the Director of Sove Andrej Rupnik, who was personally appointed and directly subordinated to you, and the Director of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, Matevž Košir, who was appointed by your Esdees cultural minister Vasko Simoniti, went and signed an agreement that part of the material was not available until 2044. In the second case, in 2012, Sove Damir Crnčec was Director, who was also appointed by you personally, and Jože Dežman, Director of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, was also appointed by Esdees minister Žiga Turk. This time, too, both directors did the same thing as the previous two years of 2008, hid the material of the SDV somewhere deep in the dark rooms of the Owl and both times, in the first and second terms, you were mismanned and you had no proper control over what your Director of the Owl and your Director of the Archives were doing. Both Secret Service Directors and both Archives Directors have done something in their own and past testimony and against the main objective of your policy. The human pronunciation says an ass only goes on ice once. Here we find it difficult to find a parable in animal heroes of proverbs and basses forward. However, it is evident that John Janša’s judgment is quite vague. Its success in achieving the key goals that it has set itself is certainly not impressive, not to list various parts of comically dangerous fantasies about other republics, lustrations, projects 10 + 100, an artificial island that will be built in front of our coast and so on. As for the series of interpretations, in particular today, you, Mr Janez Janša, have already shown you a negotiable lack of objectivity and an insatiable greed for power. The greed that you are now comforting yourself with a series of interpretations that want to bring down political stability and push Slovenia back into crisis and chaos. Just like you did in 2012. And also by having double standards, I can back up your statement. With a constructive non-trust in 2013, in your defense, you asked the non-trust investors, quote: “Did anyone promise that after one year everything would be achieved?” End of quote. It would probably be right to remember that this government you're interpreting has never claimed to do anything in two years, but in a four-year term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u59	Dr. Matić, colleagues and colleagues, with all due respect, I propose and ask you to stick to the content of the agenda item Interpellation on the work of the Government. I understand that there are also possible debates outside these frameworks, but we are not talking about the person concerned, the proposer, the character and the work, and I am asking you to stick to this too. We're not talking to ad personam, but we're talking about an advanced interpretation. We're moving on. Representative of proposalant Janez Janša, then Dr Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u60	Look, I don't mind Mr Matić saying what he wants, whether it's in the scope of interpolation or outside the scope of interpolation. But I'd like him to read exactly what they wrote to him, because there was something, I'll say, obvious logical errors, either he read it wrong or they wrote it wrong. This happens most of the time to many colleagues from the SMC. As far as the Udba, the archives and so on. In both of our mandates, many of these archives have been dedicated, but not all have been dedicated, because apparently some parts are so sensitive that they press on people, and those who have previously promised to do everything honestly, in accordance with legislation and so on, then find different excuses. This has also happened in our mandates, unfortunately, so we have some of the situation we have. It's about greed in the area. Look, any citizen in this country who has a passive and active electoral right can have a greed for power. It's his right. Do you think the government is still reserved for you alone, or what? Under this constitution, power belongs to the people. Every citizen is one member of this people. Anyone can compete for power. The area isn't just for first-class Mothers and the like, but it's for everyone. 30 years ago, someone was fighting for power to have a desire for power, one of the main swearings of all those who criticized that regime. Mr. Matić was probably not born at the time, but he inherited this profanity in the genes, apparently. We are a parliamentary democracy and everyone has the right to fight democratically in accordance with this Constitution for power. Use this as an obvious, especially if a parliamentary instrument such as interpolation is used – excuse me! This was not allowed even in the last reference of the CK before the change. As for the threesome and the subject, which was presented here through the words of the wedding witness, Dragos, or Jožet P. Damjan, and the following. Is there anyone in this Chamber who believes that foreign investors who borrow billions of dollars and euros, people in the World Bank, IMF, the European Commission do not know more about this country's public finances than you know? Do you think they draw that data from interviews? If you judge them that way, then you think they're the same as our bankers, the last time we saw this partial report from the investigative commission, how they shared loans. International investors don't do that. They have better information than we have, much better than the government has. When we composed that anti-crisis government at the beginning of 2012, we asked the Bank of Slovenia for information on the situation in the banking system, because at the time the sparrows were sneezing that something was wrong. Then came Governor Marko Kranjec and said: “It’s all right, the banks are liquid, there’s no problem, great, Slovenia has no problems.” The whole world was facing these problems, and our central bank claimed everything was fine. Then we got some partial information through leverage ownership in some banks and the picture got more and more black. We again requested official information from the Bank of Slovenia and we received only general answers that everything was fine. No information. I was then on an official visit to the European Commission and European Commission President Manuel Barroso presented the situation in the Slovenian banking system. In Brussels on the European Commission, as President of the Government, I found out what was the situation in the Slovenian banking system, which the Slovenian Central Bank claimed was fine. Then we used a slightly more resilient vocabulary and we got from Banka Slovenije a report that triggered all these procedures that ended with the rehabilitation of banks, and this rehabilitation of banks you are some, not all of those who are here, but some of you were involved with expensive money. It's not for free. It's true. However, cheaper money was available here. The difference in money between the rehabilitation of banks now running and the money we would get from the European Fund, to which we are paying, and this money is now for the rehabilitation of Spanish banks, and not for the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, is 120 million a year for this year. We could give the doctors now 40 million, and the cops 10 million 20 million would have something left if they had chosen a cheaper way. The cheaper way was rejected not because of sovereignty or was rejected precisely because of sovereignty, rounding, national interest, rounding, so that it could continue to be stolen. So that now the Government of Mira Cerar can say: "No, but we will not privatize the New Bank of Ljubljana, it is not the right time." It's never the right time. The same networks that have granted unsecured loans that have caused this bank hole are still pacing and dressing in these banks. With both bank robberies, every citizen of this country was not just every taxpayer, every citizen robbed of a lower-class car. This sovereignty in the so-called rehabilitation of this second bank hole has a motive in that the theft can continue, but not in what we have heard before from Mr Matić, who has read something he does not understand at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u61	Dr. Matić Replica, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u62	I don't know if I got it right. I'm either Mr Damian's wedding witness or I'm not Hair, so I should have reacted to the record. Second of all, I haven't been born in CK time or anything. Thank you for the compliment, Mr Janez Janša, but there are not so many years between us, among other things you taught me defence and protection at the Ivan Cankar High School, you were still, I think, a graduate or a student, so there is not so many years of age between us. What about my genes and what I got with them, here, Mr President, we could react a little bit when you were so very concerned earlier about what I'm discussing and how much ad persona is. In this case, I think you're giving Mr. Janez Janša some special treatment. This House is talking about a lot of very ad-persons, and even today, there have been many things that have not had an indirect connection to interpretation and have been very personal, and you have not reacted. So it would be good to have the same criteria for everyone here. Next, Mr. Janša, that I am first-class and privileged. Now I don't know who's privileged here between us. You've been a politician for 30 years, you've been communist at first, and then you've become something else. You deal with politics all the time. I've been working for two years, I don't know if I'm privileged, I'm sure I'm not in politics. But you have some very great affinity or passion about it, but well, that's your personal tendency. I have only talked about the means by which you try to come to power, and this is the destruction of political stability, by the whole country, this whole Parliament and all ministries must deal with the interpretations and thus block their work. Otherwise legitimate but not beneficial for the state and citizens. But as for how you look, who knows and who doesn't know the financial situation, I think we can all debate here and we're all equal. There are no first-class and second-class Members. As to what the consequences would be if I were then to accept this international aid and not have any damage to every citizen with one car, you are looking at these consequences through the car, which is also an interesting perspective or way of understanding what the public interest or the benefit of the citizens is. However, we are somehow more on the line that we are a social liberal party and we are concerned about the preservation of public service systems or social states. The social state, it's probably not going to be equal to socialism, but here you have some problems. We want to preserve the social state, and if we accepted this aid then it would mean exactly that we have to give it up. So, Mr President, I hope that in the future you will have more equal criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Janez Janša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u64	This ignorance of the constitutional alphabet continues. Ladies and gentlemen, the breakdown of political stability by democratic means is at the heart of the parliamentary struggle. If I am not mistaken, I saw you in a picture in 2012 when you participated in these so-called human uprisings, where one day in violent protests nearly 100 Slovenian police officers were wounded. You were there when in actions that were violently disrupting political stability, you demolished a government that was working hard to keep Slovenia above water. And then I, as Prime Minister, went on television and said I supported the demonstrations, even if they were against the government, only they weren't violent. To refer to political stability as an untouchable value is something that is negative and cannot be questioned, is negatively accepted or even persecuted only in totalitarian regimes. Show me, Mr Matić, in this Slovenian constitution where political stability is written. Where's that term? The same question I am referring to Mr Cerar, who, on every issue now that he is already halfway through the mandate, will state political stability as the first achievement of this government. And tell people if they can put this political stability on the plate or turn it on when they pay the bills.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u65	Mr. Matic, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u66	Yes, procedurally, Mr. President. I suggest you warn the proposer not to operate on the facts. I wasn't involved in any violent demonstrations, so please stick to at least some basic civilisational minimum. If we have something to say, at least maintain the dignity and credibility of what we say.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you, Dr. Matić, for the warning and with my previous intervention, I wanted to avoid this. I hope we can continue our work if you agree. I'm guessing yes. I give the word "magic." Juliani Bizjak Mlakar. Get ready for Mrs. Ksenija Root Kramar and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members and other Members! In this House, we hear several times about thousands of euros in average pension. I think it's very good to hear this a lot because it's a goal that wouldn't be so far away if we hadn't had so many attacks on the pension system in the last 20 years, on the social state, if we hadn't sold the total assets before, if we hadn't had a deal for wild privatisation, and if we hadn't had so much money thrown into the banking system. In short, so much could be done in this country better if we could avoid traps that obviously we could not avoid. Let this be a good school for the future, so that we can work more for the benefit of the citizens and that we will also make it possible for the retired and the rest of us to live a better life. At the same time, I wanted to say that there were almost no comments on my work as Minister of Culture in the interpretation, because, in some areas of my ministry, I am likely to give the most competent explanations, allow me to do so. First of all, low financial resources. The interpretation makes a comparison of the current financial situation in relation to 2008, and I took over the mandate of the Minister of Culture only in 2014 and should therefore only compare the realisation of the financial resources for culture for the period prior to the takeover of the function or the state of the budgets adopted up to 2018. I agree with the finding in the interpretation of the financial deprivation of cultural resources, which I regret to have inherited when I took office as Minister. Let me point out, however, that I have managed to keep the budget in the area of culture in view of previous years not only to maintain but even to increase slightly. In this way, my Prime Minister lost a total of €22 million in his short term of integrated budget resources, and lost all the European grants for the reconstruction and preservation of cultural heritage from the 2014-2020 financial perspective. This challenge has been successfully met with my colleagues at the Ministry of Culture. I successfully defended cultural resources, which have even slightly increased in the integral part of the budget, before proposals for cuts in cultural resources, which were constantly coming from the Minister of Finance or the President of the Government. However, the problem of missing cultural heritage funds from European grants remained inherited. As a result of the last deficit, we have drawn up the Cultural Euro Act at the Ministry, which, at the table of the President of the Government, the Finance Minister or the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, has not yet been able to make its way into the parliamentary procedure. Not because it would be poorly prepared or unnecessary, but simply because it requires financial resources: the first two years are around €9 million, and then the necessary funds are gradually increasing. Without money, we cannot save the collapse of our historical pearls, restore SNG Drama in Ljubljana and so on. I hope that the concern for cultural heritage will move from words to actions, as we citizens are obliged by the Constitution to ensure the preservation and restoration of our cultural heritage before there is irreparable damage. A successful battle for Slovenian music, in line with the wishes of most citizens who had previously been unjustifiably pushed by editors during the night, although using public frequencies, the Ministry of Culture fought just under my leadership, which I am particularly proud of. In 2013, just before my term of office, a little over €157 million was realized in the area of culture. During my term of office in 2014, the realisation was already almost EUR 4 million higher than before, amounting to little more than EUR 161 million. In 2015, we realised 159 million euros and a half, more than 2 million euros in 2013. With great effort and a lot of work, I managed to obtain €34.5 million of cultural funding from other ministries, together with my colleagues, without a priority investment for culture from the 2014-2020 financial perspective, as a result of the decision of the previous government. Since it is mostly so-called soft content, these resources will contribute most to the development of cultural creativity of NGOs and self-employed people in culture. These additional cultural resources, which we have negotiated very hard when I led the Ministry, appear in the form of an increase in the budget for cultural resources in the two years. In line with my commitment to the European ministerial level to cultural heritage, I have paid a lot of attention, of course, within the framework of the financial capabilities given. I think it's a success. Not only with this cultural euro law, but at the time of my administration of the ministry we have carried out quite a few resounding investments, projects of cultural heritage that we have put into public use. Let me remind you, in Brda, the Ministry has transferred the restored villa of Vipolje to management. Renovation works have been completed in the area of the former Pivka military barracks, the comprehensive organisation of the Park of Military History complex, Pavilion A, and reconstruction works at Building 6, which is dedicated to the depots of three national museums: the Museum of Recent History, the Technical Museum of Slovenia and the National Museum of Slovenia. Projects of a comprehensive renovation of the National Gallery and the Plečnik House in Ljubljana were also completed. We have completed projects to rebuild the Lantieri Castle, House of Live Heritage in Šmarješke Toplice, Mediadom in Piran, in the municipality of Piran, Kulturna dom Krško, Museum and presentation of puppets at the Ljubljana Castle and Youth Cultural Centre in Rogaška Slatina. We also carried out investments in SNG Drama Ljubljana, SNG Maribor, in the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, it was an object in Roška, National University Library, Cankarjev dom, Technical Museum, Museum of Architecture and Design, the purchase of premises for the Landscape Archive of Maribor, the unit for Pomurje, and investments in the castle of Viltuš, the castle of Dornava, the castle of Negova, the castle of Sneznik, the parking space near the town of Pišec – without parking arrangements it can not be expected to operate – and for the rehabilitation of the beach at the castle of Ptuj. In Ljutomer he was handed over to the management of the installation facility for the purposes of municipal cultural activities, which had been unused for years before. The National Gallery was the largest investment project in recent years in the field of culture. The total investment, including equipment, was worth 13.5 million euros. Some objects of cultural heritage will also be able to be realized in the coming years, of course to a very limited extent within the framework of the funds obtained at other ministries during my term of office. In a year and a half, it would be difficult for anyone to achieve greater success with the resources available in the area of protection and restoration of cultural heritage. No comments were made by the interlocutors on the implementation of the Government's normative programme during my term of office. Justifiably. During my ministry during the year and a half, we prepared 10 novels of laws or laws, everything we planned during this period. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Audiovisual Media Services, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Librarianism, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Media, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection of Cultural Heritage, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Return of Unlawfully Disposal of Cultural Heritage Items. The Act on the Slovenian Film Centre, the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia, was also recently adopted during my ministry and provides a solution to monetary returns to encourage investment by foreign producers in the production of films and audiovisual works in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. With amendments to the umbrella law on culture, the so-called ZUJIK, which was also prepared during my ministry's management, we have resolved an important part of the reconstruction of the cultural model, namely the question of self-employed in culture and their decent pay for the work done and the question of ballet players. Unfortunately, the Committee on Culture has partly reduced the proposal to work when the employer, when he is a private legal person, such as a society, still does not have to pay a fine. The reform of the cultural model is reflected in this law as a renewal of human relationships, which, at least in the field of culture, is no longer based on the exploitation of human beings by human beings, the exploitation of powerless prison workers. In the area of cultural model renewal, there were extremely many conflicting ideas. The expert group I set up should shortly prepare guidelines for the renovation of the cultural model. Some, unfortunately, represented a new cultural model as a financial exhaustion of public institutions. This is one of the most qualitative parts of the cultural field, which of course would not be appropriate. In fact, the new cultural model to be established throughout the country, the establishment of cultural and non-exploital working relationships between people and the preservation of cultural heritage in culture, the award of quality creativity and culture is significantly closer to people than it is now to promote a positive attitude towards our culture and cultural heritage. It's the only way we can appreciate and interact with other cultures. I will not list the other many projects prepared by the Ministry, because it would take more than ten hours, which, of course, we do not have today. On the third point of the interpretation, she would point out that Kobilna Lipica, who is a member of the Ministry of Culture, is under Minister Počivalska and before that she was under the responsibility of Minister Židan. Although I also believe that Kobilna Lipica would really be a judge of the Ministry of Culture. However, I would like to express my concern that the miners of the Idrija mine, without adequate legal and other grounds, are to be transferred to the cultural public institution in Idrija, although the Ministry is neither human resources nor financial nor professionally qualified to manage and control mining activities. And, of course, the concern that SDH intends to liquidate the Idrija mine, regardless of the threat that this would pose to the assets and lives of people in Idrija. I would also like to discuss the content of the agreement signed yesterday with Fides by the Minister of Health, without first studying and presenting to the public the financial, human and other consequences of the agreement. It is supposed to be an unreasonable increase in the salaries of the medical elite, whose salaries are already the highest in the country and are entirely appropriate in relation to other professions. It is unacceptable that, after the agreement, doctors should have a monopoly on the preparation of their standards. The implementation of the agreement would constitute a serious intervention in the health register, again at the expense of poorer patient health care. I therefore propose that the Government does not sign the agreement. I would like the government to be able to spend the remaining months of rule on poverty reduction and on improving the situation of the elderly and the pensioners. I would like the government to start to strengthen public education, public health and other public services that are important to people’s lives and less to deal with already overpaid elites. Your Honor! Let us be active those who do not care what happens to our country and to our honest and working people, so that together we can ensure a decent future for everyone in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u69	Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Muršič and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This government is doing well. For Slovenia, economic movements are favourable and the prospects are also favourable for the next quarter. Economic growth continues, the labour market situation has improved, and further employment growth is also expected. Slovenia has made progress on international competitiveness this year. The 14th annual report of the World Bank also stated that the measures already taken are in the right direction. The fact that this is a success is also understood from the Economic Mirror, number 7, for 2016, Umarja. Of course, this government, with the Ministry of Justice, which it would now focus on, is focusing in the first year of its mandate on strengthening the efficiency, transparency and integrity of the functioning of the judiciary, enforcement of criminal sanctions and State supervisory authorities and a higher level of human rights protection. In this context, a number of measures have been put in place to prevent abuse of prison sentences, abuse of personal bankruptcy and the introduction of an important social security guard in enforcement proceedings. In the second year of the mandate, it focused on the preparation of a comprehensive judicial reform, both the organisation of a judicial network and the organisation of judicial proceedings with the aim of strengthening the responsibility of the judge, improving the openness of justice and speeding up the trial. We stand firm for zero tolerance, especially up to zero tolerance for corruption in general, and especially within the judiciary. On the basis of GRECO's recommendations, the National Assembly adopted important amendments and additions to the three laws on the organisation of the courts and the State Prosecutor's Office, as proposed by the Ministry of Justice. Let me give them: The Law of Courts, the Law of Judicial Service, and the Law of Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the State Prosecutor's Office. On the basis of these measures, measures already taken within the framework of the Judicial and State Prosecutor's Office have also been implemented. The dialogue with civil society was mentioned. Let me just remind you that the Ministry of Justice regularly publishes draft laws and regulations on its website. In accordance with the resolution on normative activities, draft regulations are also published on the E-Democracy portal. Thus, the general public, as well as civil society, has the opportunity to take note of and submit comments and proposals for them. So, isn't this a dialogue? Dialogue is also under way in the preparation of individual rules, both with target groups from the professional public and from civil society. Let me also remind you that the ministry has acquired €2.9 million of European funding in this mandate, almost €12 million more than in the previous European financial perspective. These financial resources will be aimed at ensuring greater quality, restoring business processes and improving the skills of judicial staff. International research, some of whom have already been mentioned, among them Euro Justice scoreboard record positive results in the field of justice, as we record a decisive reduction in the time taken to resolve cases in Slovenian courts. If we look at the comparison from 2013 to 2016, the time for dealing with civil and economic justice cases has improved, we came from 19th to 13th. Also handling administrative matters. In solving insolvency cases, we are in second place. The level of resolution of civil, economic, administrative and other matters has also improved. Slovenia takes second place in the resolution of civil and economic justice cases. The excellent results are also recognised by Slovenia in the area of administrative dispute, where the Slovenian administrative court ranked first in the European Union after the speed of resolving administrative disputes. However, progress has been made despite the continued decline in the number of judges and the fact that Slovenia is first in the number of new cases received. However, we intend to continue positive trends over the next period, i.e. in the second half of the mandate, because the key proposals for legislative changes are on the table, and in particular those relating to procedural legislation. Here I am referring to the Law of Criminal Procedure and the Law of Justice. All of this indicates that this government is on the right track, indicating that we are doing well, but there is still room for improvement. This is our challenge for the next period. Until now, and we will do well, we will continue to do good for the benefit of all of us, and especially for the benefit of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u71	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Much has already been heard, much will still be heard today, as we have been able to speak in the debate only 10 Members and Members of Parliament, of the approximately 90 reported. This means that the debate will continue for a long time. In my debate, I would focus on just a few important points that are mentioned in the interpretation. It should be stressed that in recent years we have recorded relatively high economic growth. This year it is estimated to be around 2.3%. Citizens and citizens also want some of this in this good economic growth. Whether this has really been done in this mandate will be evident through today's debate. At the outset, I would like to point out that the number of unemployed is decreasing, which is encouraging, and as a result, economic growth is increasing. Finally, after a few years, the number of unemployed fell below 100,000. In this place, the motioner will immediately warn me that many unemployed have received a job abroad. Yes, of course, that's true, but even in the past, people have gone around the world looking for jobs and so on. The causes of this trend of reducing unemployment are also found in the fact that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, with measures for young people under 29 years of age, managed to employ more than 49,000 unemployed. A good 4,000 young people have also been employed for an indefinite period of time by means of an intervention measure to exempt employers from paying their contributions. There have been even more measures for young people, not to be overlooked by active employment policy measures, the First Challenge, Employment Me, about 3 000 700 young people have been involved in public works in the past year. Public works as a specific active policy measure are very encouraging. Above all, they are an active policy programme, creating new jobs, but of course it is a desire that these created new jobs also turn into regular jobs. With public parts, we have helped solve the problems of the natural aggressor crisis, the migration crisis in the past year. And all these measures were positive. This year, some 17,000 unemployed are included in the active employment policy programmes, with an increase of 5,000 unemployed, both young and old, long-term unemployed, for the next year. Of course, we're talking about the young, the elderly, the long-term unemployed, but we also have a group between the ages of 29 and 50. In this group, too, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should consider appropriate measures in order to effectively employ these people, because this is the most active part of the population and what exemptions from the employer's contributions would be very appropriate in this context. Even with pensions, I must say that we all want these pensions to be worthy so that pensioners can survive with them and live with their 40 years of work with dignity. I expect more will be done on this. I also welcome the first time in 2015 that a thousand scholarships have been granted for the deficit professions. Although this first invitation was not the most successful but the second one, I must say that it was successful and I wish that these students or those who received these scholarships would also be regularly employed in Slovenia and would not go abroad. Like most developed European countries, Slovenia is facing changed demographic and economic assumptions and the trend towards ageing and life expectancy. So we're becoming a long-lived society. Ageing affects social insurance systems, health insurance, long-term care and, in particular, pension insurance based on intergenerational solidarity and a good funding principle. The challenges presented by demographic projections must concern us or ensure long-term financial sustainability. The number of older people will double by 2060 according to their working capacity. The number of the oldest population will also increase and, as a result, the annual pension deficit will increase, so today we need to think about establishing a demographic fund which will be one of the measures to mitigate the deficit in the pension system. So this will have a decisive impact on the quality of life of future generations. Long-term care is also very important. More and more, we want our family to stay in the home environment. It is crucial that we also establish systems of long-term care based on integrated treatment, which will be given priority in the local environment. However, it appears that the Government or both competent ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs agree that it is necessary and therefore the law is already in preparation. Long-term care measures are growing very fast, especially those on the user's side or in the pocket, so it is crucial that we also consider providing new resources in this direction. It would also touch on the reorganisation of social work centres. By implementing the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, social work centres are placed in a position to carry out more administrative work. Although this law introduced a uniform stage for decision-making on social security services, it is certainly good. Of course, it is also good to relieve professional people who work at the centres and start to deal with what they are actually trained to do, not just with administration. Furthermore, it would have been identified, or in one of the positions, the mortgages on assets have been mentioned. As far as the mortgages are concerned, I must say that we are not talking about mortgages, but in the Social Protection Act these mortgages are not good. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has proposed amendments to the legislation in which, in most recipients of a protective allowance, monetary social assistance, these markings, which are now on real estate, would have been abolished and would have abolished the refund to a certain amount. Personally, I think this is only right, because, because of the apparitions of many pensioners who were entitled to a protective allowance, it was not up to them, because they were actually afraid of their assets, for which they had given up their entire lives, and some were also taking large loans. I'd like to briefly touch on the areas of health. Health care certainly needs more resources. There's no denying it. However, it should be pointed out at this point that since 2009, health resources have been declining. There have been too few specialisations and we are now in this insurmountable situation that we do not want. There are problems, but I hope things change as soon as possible. It is true that I expect that in this so-called second half of the time, there will be a lot of work to be done. People expect that from us, so they elected us, so here we are. There are many issues open in the area of health. There is still no agreement on the reshaping of additional health insurance, nor are there roofing legal documents. I hope that we will succeed here and that the Minister will prepare these laws by the month of December. Allow me to conclude, because I still have to give my colleagues some time. From today's debate, unfortunately, citizens and citizens will have nothing. But it's the government's first-half interpretation of the general's work. For the analysis prepared by the applicant, I must say that I can thank them at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u73	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mrs Erika Dekleva. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Vice President. I hope you will not warn me after this debate about what you have enjoyed with my colleague and who is as friendly as possible or not. One fact is very simple, in interpolation, if we stick to at least a cultural level, in fact everything is allowed in substance, and in the interpretation of the government at all, because it opens the field. What I've seen lately, I see, is that we're only going to talk about the topic of interpolation, sorry, the interpolation was so fat, the answer was so fat, and it's talking about everything else, just not what it said in there. And whatever the proposer can afford, he has to get it back at the same rate. I'm not going to say it the same way, because I'm not going down to this level. But at least what it is, I'll warn you of lies, fat lies. So please, Vice President, if I may take you to my dialogue. Now let's do it in a row. Why does this interpolation suck? Why is the interpretation that should be the mother of all the interpretations, according to individual ministers? Because it is implemented by a proposaler who has been doing it for the third time. And a man expects you to be a little awkward for the first time, and you're good for the second time, and you have to be great for the third time. Reverse. Third time's the worst. Why they did not agree with the party, but rather they trusted a young colleague who with some interpretation showed that he was much better than his spiritual leader, which is their personal matter, and I will not interfere. But the problem is somewhere else. The problem was that in the first interpolation it was the desire for John John Janša to finally come into power with his serious campaign. At the time, this was a relatively good challenge. In fact, what he failed to do in 1997, he established in his peak in 2004, when he actually cut off with his entry into power, and earlier with this interpellation with the long-standing rule of the then LDS. What does that mean today? Today, this really means only one thing: the last calls are desperate, because if he fails for the third time, it is definitely over with him. Well, in what way? Of course, it's legitimate, and it's a tool for the opposition to use. And Mr Janša does not need to show us the Constitution here and teach us what is right and what is wrong and what version he has chosen to use for his political enforcement of his story. But more importantly, the mere interpretation actually tries to preserve its existence. Lies, however, that he cites in his own text, are just one after another. Let's leave it now that it's rude, rude and so forth, but it's just an individual thing. We're not gonna be here about this. The moment he says the following thing: This government is illegal – of course we know the expression illegal and illegal, it is called legitimate, not legal – but it descends to this subtitle limit when it is actually illegal to say that it is actually illegal. I'm sorry, I don't understand why this leader of the biggest opposition party in Parliament congratulated the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, when he became Prime Minister. Why did he give him his hand if he doesn't believe and says that this government is illegal? You're not really putting up an interpretation against an illegal government because you don't recognize it. Vice President, will you take action? Come on, at least exercise that authority! Come on. Can I? Yes, thank you. What's important is that you don't actually invest any extrapolation against an illegal government. You don't invest because you don't recognize her. And that's the dangerous field we're going into. I have before me a document which speaks very clearly that it has confirmed the mandates of all Members. You won't believe it. You won't believe Mir Cerar. Because first he was a Member, then only the Prime Minister. Why did he confirm his mandate if it was illegal? That's what I'm wondering. 88 members voted, 2 were absent, one was Comrade Dobovšek and the other was the Moon. Both were excused and 88 Members confirmed the mandates of all Members. I'm really wondering. If you don't respect it, how can I trust a man to do something legitimately, and he doesn't really believe in anything? Worse! He wants to come into power, he wants to show his vision and path again, but in this way, forgive me when you don't even recognize the legal results you've confirmed, I find it hard to believe such a man. The next thing I know, it's a lie again, watch what he said. He chose Uganda. Several heads of government, among others, are now the Spanish Prime Minister, who has also chosen Uganda. He must have read it online somewhere, and this Uganda has become popular. In fact, he chose Uganda and said that the Slovenian representative, who was the observer of those elections – of course, he complicated his own pain inside – then compared it with the Slovenian space and said that there were no observers in Slovenia. Fat lie. Let's go in line who was really here. You will not believe it, four observers were from the International Republican Institute, five observers from Election Canada and two observers from the International Center for Parliamentary Studies from London. And what is the most interesting information is that these four observers, who have been in Slovenia and have observed these elections, have given the best assessment and have said that Slovenia is a model for democratic elections, in particular in this Balkan part of Europe, and that it is in fact an example for a large number of countries that have more than a hundred years of democracy and these procedures. And who were these observers? You're not gonna believe this. From a Republican party, from an institute where they studied and educated members of the SDS party years ago. And more. Today their President Trump is the President of the United States of America. And here it explains to me that there were no observers. But these same observers, who, by the way, the president recently went to because he hoped to meet with the future president, didn't come within an inch of it. Years ago he sat here as Prime Minister Janez Ivan Janša and when we had an interpretation against his colleague, then Minister of the Interior Dr. Gorenak Vice-President, leave them, they're rude, because they just say who they are. And he sat there opposite when this interpolation was going on and John Janša explained to me all the time: Mr. Möderndorfer, you know, the concept needs to be understood, the concept, the true concepts. I agree. Today he doesn't recognize these concepts. I believe that in some way you are a party to the SDS, which today is proposing this interpretation, wants everything good for Slovenia. I honestly believe that's what they want. However, the way to do so had the opportunity to show. And this way they showed wasn't good for Slovenia. And I'm talking about this concept that John John Janša says today would be cheaper for Slovenia. We are talking about the so-called European Fund, where we would get money without interest. He says the state would be less indebted. Yeah, it's true. It is also true what he then said that certain measures should be taken. But where do we lose the sovereignty of the country? We lose our sovereignty when we no longer really decide which measures we will discuss. But it's easy for you to set and say, these measures, these measures for so many percent and so many percent. Remember the vote on Greece, remember the vote on Cyprus. The next day they did not know whether people would be able to raise more than €800, but only €100 from the ATM because at night Members had to push all the measures, because otherwise there would be no money. And that's what Mr. Janez Ivan Janša fought for, not for credit. And that's what's dangerous in the whole system. And here I'm afraid, I'm afraid of people who are willing so cheap to simply eliminate the state's sovereignty in a way that is called cheap money or a simple solution to the problem. Not to mention what has already been mentioned today, when he literally declared in the Slovenian space that the country is in front of bankruptcy. We know those who were active in Parliament at the time, and we know how that reflected. We know what that was like. We also know what his partnership for cooperation looked like. He invited us when we were talking about the SDH law when he was just getting ready. That's right. Only if you didn't have such a proposal to judge their concept, you didn't come along. You know, I'm happy to invite someone and say you can work with me. But not a single proposal was adopted. And that, of course, is a key problem. I don't want that kind of cooperation. For this reason, it is difficult to talk about some serious interpretation. Let me finish with one more thing that seems crucial to me. Today, quite a few of them mentioned this branch school, Osilnica. Let us now let some, including my colleague Alenka Bratušek, know that the state does not establish primary schools or abolish them. There is something else, though, that this was not the only branch school. During the term of office from 2004 to 2008, 11 branch primary schools were abolished only in the Janšev government. I will list them to you so that you will not think that I am bluffing: Pernice, Primož, Hrastov Dol, Livek, Machine, Svetina, Zalež, Levpa, Tešanovci, Zavodnje. Is that enough? No, you're still on. In 2012, you continued with a story called Markovci, River, Brestanica, three branch schools. Neither did A say when a branch school was cancelled. Of course not, because everything went legally. It is known when those areas that are critical, when they close, when they fall to the number of 5 students or under 4 and when it comes to areas that are not critical, and when they fall below 14 pupils. Branch schools have value. There's just one more thing to do. When the number of students in that area grows, the same branch school will be reestablished. And there's no problem and not talking and fantasizing about the end of the world because of one branch school. Yeah, we're not that rich, and we can't do that. I am sure that the Government has the opportunity and will present its views on all purely specific issues below. Not least it's the same. However, I am already wondering what we are going to do today if we are interpreting all ministers or first minister between ministers and ministers, what we are going to do in a few weeks, when we will have another minister again, which will be the third time, if I consider this interpellation, we will be interpelled. What are we gonna talk about? The same tape? About the tape we're gonna put in, and we're gonna do it again? That's why I'm talking. No, it's not true. You have the right to interpolation. You can do it for me every day. But does that make sense? And one of the MPs said the following sentence: "Don't say we're spending taxpayer's money on interpolation because you have wages if it's an interpolation or if it isn't." But it's not true. Today we could do something more creative than what is happening today. My colleague Eva, I can't help it if you're unhappy because I'm talking, but stop making trouble. But if this is part of your strategy, I welcome you. Have a nice day. That's what I'm done with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u75	Technically, Dr. Vinko Gorenak first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u76	Vice President, look, this is the situation now. The Rules of Procedure provide for one situation where you can respond procedurally to someone who spoke before you, and he mentioned you because you were in front of him. Like misinterpretation or something. Mr Möderndorfer keeps telling me, I don't know why or how. I haven't performed here today. That's why I have to go to you and ask you. In fact, I should ask you now to list one dozen things to prove to him that he was saying the wrong things. But there's only one thing I'm going to mention. When we spoke and when our President Janša spoke about partnership, he certainly did not talk about that partnership as he thinks. He's had so many partnerships, but you know, from Jankovic and LDS he's really the newest in Mr. Cerar. That's not what I'm saying. As far as partnership is concerned, we have talked about the partnership we had between 2004 and 2008, which is also good for the President of the Government to hear this matter. And, Mr President, I am personally, I was a member of the Cabinet of the President of the Government 2004-2008, as the Secretary of State aligned myself with the opposition at the time, and the largest party at the time was SD Zares and LDS, and Jelinčič was, with them, I aligned 60% of the laws to the point that opposition Members voted in favour. This is what our President was talking about, not what Mr Möderndorfer was talking about. But I'm taking this opportunity to tell you that I haven't experienced more than one amendment in your term, let alone one marriage. And then the President of the government at the government's meeting, sitting in that chair like you are sitting there today, was criticized for not paying attention to the opposition. After the government's first meeting, he held ministers at the government's meeting and we had one special meeting on how to take the opposition into account. President, think about it, think about it. Sir, I ask you, if you can tell Mr Möderndorfer what our President thought, because he is obviously in the confusion of the parties and the political bots he has, he is confusing everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u77	Before continuing with procedural procedures, let me tell you that I may not be able to respond personally to your procedural questions, because I am running out of time. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u78	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I had to react to my colleague Möderndorfer's debate, because he was deceiving. See, during the 2012–2013 term of the government of Janez Janša, we invited the opposition, Positive Slovenia and the Social Democrats to two key laws, namely the Slovenian State Holding Act and the Bad Bank Act. My colleague Möderndorfer said, "We were invited, but they did not take into account, I would say no proposals." Look, my dear colleague Möderndorfer, at the time I led this commission for the Slovenian state holding and we have said publicly: more opposition proposals have been accepted than coalitions. And even then, we said that your suggestions made this law significantly improved. Your colleague, Alenka Bratušek, participated, and I thank her today. Social Democrats also had their own representative. The Slovenian State Holding Act was improved at the time with the help of the opposition and did not deceive that you were invited, but we did not take into account your proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u79	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I'm glad the rules of procedure say that I would now have a replica, but I can't have one because you've abused the procedural procedure. The fact is that the Rules of Procedure do not prevent me from mentioning situations and events, and if the interpretation was against Dr. Gorenak, I cannot say that the interpretation was against someone from the mandate at that time. I'm sorry. Look, this is ridiculous what they're saying, but I have to mention the name. But I didn't say anything about individuals, and I haven't mentioned anyone who hasn't discussed it. However, I mentioned John John Janša, who discussed it and is on behalf of the proposer before us. The other thing that matters. When I mentioned the word partnership, I meant the word partnership literally. I didn't say development partnership. Look at the magnetogram. I know very well what development partnership means and what partnership means. About the form of cooperation, that's what I'm talking about. And that's why I know, and unlike anyone else, I know what I'm saying, when I'm talking, and where I'm telling. But let me warn you, in a way, each time you do me a favor when you mention me and the arrangements and cooperation with different parties. And I'll tell you why. Because it's just a confirmation that you're running out of arguments, because then you always go to personal disqualification, and that's a normal practice. When you run out of content, you go to disqualification, and that's typical of this camp out there that's been pacing for so many years. Let me finish. But I'll check in at the time of the replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u81	We're moving on. Okay. Mr. Gorenak, thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert, to prepare Mrs Erika Dekleva and Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Of course I have to respond to a colleague in front of me. I know he's a political nomad, and he doesn't always know exactly where he is. But it is only right that he does not speak to us and that we do not see any inconsequential debate. Because in defense of the government, because now of the government, he should have remembered well, he did not know how to say one of the measures that that government has taken. So much for nomads and what's worth and what's not. Now, the chairman, before I go any further, I might as well read a swimming pool for starters. It's a swimming pool about an easy-to-think tree. There was a young walnut in the garden between the trees. When he sees another tree growling, he himself feels this desire. But now, the devil comes by and says, "Come on, start growing faster than the others, and show how strong you are and how strong you will have branches and how much better you are than others." The yellow beaver, however, warns the young walnut of the danger posed by the salt, but the walnut, of course, does not listen to the yellow beke. Even more rich. But behold him a fragment, and the sun set, and the wind blew; for the devil hath made his choice. And the frost makes the easy-to-think tree grow cold. This little tree, walnut, hang the cubs and dry the next morning. If someone didn't draw the point, what does this pool want to say, I'll tell them. It's a simple science. If others send you into politics and even give you the whole competition with all the media, then it's not a guarantee that you won't freeze one day. And that's exactly what's happening to this government. She's frozen all over the line. In fact, I agree with those who have said that this government is a national disaster. And now I'm going to explain why, because I'm not saying anything. Firstly, the axiom on the rule of law – you were literally able to crush it in powder; the illegal budget; the illegal payment of allowances; the taking of a mandate; the unconstitutional. What ministers have done is not only illegal but also constitutionally controversial. Let me remind you that this government has in its own kind someone who has violated the Constitution in the course of violations of the laws. Of course, in another function, he hunted down individual political opponents and asked them how, in what way, and how they paid their water bill. Yesterday or a few days ago, the same minister did not know, or we can say today, that he pretended that his family budget had grown by almost a million euros in credit for the bank hole. This is a fact, Your Honor, of this government. Allow me to say a few other things that this government has promised. The Prime Minister of the Government said two years ago he was somewhere when you swore: I will do everything I can and can do. Well, let's see! I will take care of the environment, where the vision or development of public servants will be possible – the President of the Government has also been an honorary associate in the National Assembly in the past. We know that. He served well. Let me remind you that in the National Assembly alone, 30 per cent of the people are employed, 30 per cent of the people who have wages below 1,000 euros gross and do not pay extra health insurance due to low nets. So much for success in the field of public servants. At that time, the First Minister also stated that it would allow for good cooperation with civil society and other stakeholders. One year of negotiation with the police union! Failure to negotiate, and in this way also illegal budget. As far as doctors are concerned, the Prime Minister doesn't even know what his ministers are doing. These are the facts of success, and before I listened to Mr Koprivnik, I was laughing. He spoke again about his informational endeavors and, on the other hand, his ministry does not have a list of state property by municipality. This is a successful area of public administration management! Next, the First Minister said the priorities would be shorter waiting lines and public health. Your Honor, is this the public health care you offer that citizens have to worry about saving their children abroad? That parents with their own resources and with the help of citizens provide treatment – is this public health? And, on the other hand, that the health-care staff will be happy. Look what's going on. I don't think the first president or the first minister made those promises, either. We'll stand for drinking water in the constitution. That's great! I've got some text messages asking me when my citizens are asking me to ask you why water tables are still coming. In fact, water has become a constitutional right. Please, of course, don't let the Prime Minister tell me that these are the little people who don't know what they're doing. You also promised apartments for young people, for young families. I don't see them, but I know a lot of young people who don't hope to have families, because they have contracts to work for six months, some don't even know what tomorrow will be; in short, so much for the next promise. You were talking about security and a successful army. The Slovenian army is bare and bare and more. What exactly are you doing with her today? You're destroying her on the line! But to conclude with just one sentence and one thought. You know what you've done with ethics and morality, but that's too much. This is no longer worth anything, as was money in the former South; the more it was printed, the less it was worth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u83	Mrs Erika Dekleva has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Dear ministerial assembly, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues, especially citizens and citizens who accompany us! Today, we have heard many times that interpellation is a legitimate tool for the opposition. And that's true. But it is also true that today is an opportunity for the government, for the ministerial team, for the coalition to tell us what we have done and what we will do. However, I did not imagine that after two years of work in this interpolation, we would still be mutilating the wounds of the SDS, the wounds that occurred during the elections. So surprisingly in the beginning we listened to the comparison of Slovenia with Uganda, at least as far as democracy and elections are concerned. Uganda is a country around which wars, conflicts and violence are taking place. This is a country that has only had a third democratic election in its history. This is the country where voters wait five hours for the electoral commission to bring the necessary materials and equipment for the election. The people in the hot sun in the column are waiting on the police escort so they can transmit their voice and fingerprints. And this is what John Janša compared to Slovenia today! Funny if it wasn't so sad. We are still hearing about illegal elections, even though they have been declared in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, although we have participated in these elections by all those who are sitting in this national assembly today and by all those who have not reached the parliamentary threshold. The fact is, the SDS was not elected in the elections. You were not elected to lead Slovenia, and this will need to be done slowly. The government is led by Dr. Miro Cerar and this coalition. But it's true that public research has predicted you a victory, but you know what it's like to do with these public research. You were also told a good result when you did not have a president in prison, and Jankovic won. Even in the U.S., all the research predicted Hillary Clinton's victory, and Donald Trump won. And we are not pretending to have a legitimate government, as John Janša says; we have a legitimate government! You also say that trust in the government is very low. That's right. The government's work is well assessed by 38.3% of respondents. With the work of the opposition, 72.4 percent of the people are dissatisfied. At the time of the government of John Janša, 84% felt that the government was working poorly. So much for low support. If the coalition proves in the next two years that it is right that we have refused to grow, that Slovenia will achieve positive economic growth in two years, then I will retire as a politician and enjoy this prosperity, John Janša made a public promise almost three years ago. Well, Slovenia has recorded more than 2% of economic growth since 2014 and Janez Janša is still here. Of course, he does not keep his promise, although in the National Assembly we often feel that he is retired because he is so few here. Of course, I understand that the SDS is gathering political points today, and we are and will continue to strive for a stable and successful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u85	The word imagos under Sasha Tabakovic. Prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u86	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Government, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for your word. It is true, I agree with my colleague, the girl, that today we have another interpolation that is actually intended and serves exclusively to agitate our own electoral base. Nothing else. What I can tell you is that apparently commercial television is under-exploited by this reference to the National Assembly. Despite the fact that some new televisions have also emerged during this time, some Members have decided that this agitation would be good if it were covered by national media or some media that may be a little wider in this recognition. This is how I understand today's investment in interpolation in this light. It is true, however, that interpellation is legitimate, but at the time of such inflation, one still wonders about some political philosophy of the proposer, if we are already talking about a constitutional alphabet of our country's parliamentaryism. More than once, it has been said that nothing has actually happened in these two years, and as Vice-President of the Committee on Education, I will focus in my debate on education and education and concentrate in some way on the obviouss that the applicant has shown through his interpretation that they are too modest by the results that this government is supposed to have recorded in these two years, in particular in the field of education and education, for which the applicant considers that this system of education and education is closed, non-creative and non-solidated with citizens and citizens, which he simply does not hold. If we look at the various areas that are participative from above down, we could somehow start with the latest novel, which was also adopted in this National Assembly, this is the ZVIS, a novel on the Higher Education Act, where we legally ensured the growth of funding for higher education financing, thus, of course, laying the foundations for the development of higher education. At the same time, we have regulated accreditation at the institutional level, at the same time exacerbating the conditions relating to the establishment of higher education institutions dealing with higher education policies, especially because in the past there have been some abuses in these two parts; abuses in the way that relate to the quality of programmes themselves, as of course abuses that take place in the provision of certain spaces, so that these learning processes can take place in a qualitative manner. In this regard, of course, the students suffered the most. In particular, this novel democratised the university in a way that expands the academic assembly, even as far as electoral law is concerned, so will students and all those, as I would call it, all those non-professor services that are somehow defined within higher education institutions. In this way, the management of higher education institutions and universities will also be more democratised in some way. As far as student rights are concerned, we have limited this time to one year in transition from the first to the second level of the Bologna system and, of course, at that time all students will be able to benefit from their rights, which according to their status. And then I wonder if it's nothing, if it's this nothing we're talking about today. I don't think so. With this novel we have also equalized the rights deriving from parental rights, both mother students who are equal to the rights of the students' fathers. Is this nothing again? I don't think so. When we talk about co-financing a doctoral study that has been interrupted for many years — is this again the nothing we are talking about today? For this doctoral study, we have committed an additional € 4.6 million by 2018. Is this the nothing we're talking about? We would also, of course, provide an additional e-project with this novel. [[…]] This is a project that actually monitors what happens to students when they finish their studies according to the content they have studied and what happens to them in the field of the labour market when they enter into this work policy in some way. What's really going on with them? In this way, the link between the school space itself and the demands or needs of the economy will also be better connected. You are also well aware that we have adopted a decision on the working body of the Ministry to prepare by summer 2017 a new law that will define the concept of public service more precisely so that we will no longer swear about what the content of the higher education area is and from which resources these tasks must be covered and financed. On this basis, of course, we will also address the decision of the Constitutional Court in a final and rounded manner. Furthermore, if we talk about secondary education, I can say that in coalition coordination we have received a proposal for a law on apprenticeship, which will reintroduce the learning process that will facilitate the transition of young people to the sphere of work, as they will receive much more practical knowledge and will be much better and easier to employ as such. This will also give us a system that will be geared towards more realistic expectations of direct jobs and a system where employers and the state are equally prepared and able to pay the individual who will decide on apprenticeship. It is true that the SDS Group has repeatedly tabled a proposal in the procedure, but this proposal has simply not been in line with all the social partners. In particular, he was somehow linked to the opinion of employers. This is simply too small to support such a proposal. This proposal will enable young people to be assured of early professional socialisation and a better link between the education system and the economy. When we talk about primary school policy, you are well aware that we have sent the ZOFVI in interdepartmental coordination, which complies with the Constitutional Court's decision on the financing of public and private schools and that the law drawn up by the Ministry addresses this role in a way that is also wider, clearer and more clearly addressed in the way that it also borders it. We in the SMC Group have repeatedly said how we understand this difference, that public education, of course, is understood as a public good, as a public interest and that private education is understood solely as a complement to the public and, of course, these two levels must also be adequately funded. Training funds, which you also have a problem with in-interpelling. The proposal states that nothing has happened in this area again. It just doesn't hold. You know very well that we have not only earmarked funds for the renovation of the textbook funds, but that these teaching funds will be renovated throughout the triad next year. So first, second, third. This is not irrelevant because it is easy for primary school students who, as I would call it, are in a vulnerable group; so they come from families that are the most socially sensitive. We have also resumed this mandate by co-financing a warm meal. That's not what it was until now. This is what we started in this term. While this has been the case in the past, it has been abolished due to various circumstances, but we have now reintroduced this and we will also increase this co-financing percentage at one of the future meetings of the working body. Further science. The government has adopted a national strategy for open access to scientific publications and research data. We also successfully conclude negotiations to join Slovenia in CERN. This will certainly have major multiplier effects in the field of the economy. A call for RRI has been successfully launched in chains and value networks where 55 million additional funds have been allocated under these procedures. Is this the nothing we're talking about today? I don't think so. Thus, all these data show, also vertically, when we look from higher education, secondary education, primary education, that Slovenia, in fact, with an increasing number of people with completed tertiary education and a low dropout rate, has already achieved the national objectives introduced by the Europe 2020 strategy, and in 2016. Is this the nothing we talk about in education and education? But it is true that all these results could be even better, but they can always be. I completely agree with that. In this sense, both the President of the Government and the Government want all the good in the future. I believe that time as the only objective judge will simply put things in his place and that it will finally show to what extent this government and this coalition with measures and financial incentives simply believe that knowledge is what the future of Slovenia is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u87	Mr Jeroj Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec and Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u88	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The first measure of the new Croatian government, one month ago – what was it? Tax reform, thorough tax reform. There was no analysis of the analysis, two years, or, as the head of the SMC Group last year said on national television, “we laid the foundations”. One year we laid the foundations, the Croatian government presented and adopted tax reform on the first day of its first meeting. And this is that efficiency, this first measure, not as a first step political stability. Because political stability is or is not. Every government is politically stable until it falls apart. From my experience, I'm telling you that this is going very quickly. When you boast at the expense of political stability, one great thanks to Alenka Bratušek on the interpretation of Anja Kopač Dark, who received only 38 votes of support, but if a group of unrelated Members voted differently, today we would be in political, again, instability so to speak, so these things go very quickly in Slovenia. Lowering the results, such as economic growth, reducing the number of unemployed under 100,000, 50,000 — although unbased — but 50,000 new young people with new jobs and attributable to such credits, at least requires the ruling coalition to list concrete measures or specific laws that have favoured these results. And while we're at it, the data on how many Slovenes and Slovenes work in Austria – these are more than 15,000, the number is 17 thousand – in Germany is 10,000, the number of young people who have received a job abroad is around 8 thousand a year. How many young people go abroad looking for opportunities of life, and in Slovenia we have educated them and offered them knowledge, invested in them, and these people go out, because here they do not get the opportunity. And these are your results. So, the first thing is that the government comes to the interview and lists, you and these measures, you and these laws have insisted that we have fewer unemployed today, that we have fewer unemployed young people today, that we have economic growth at the expense of these measures. I would really like to ask the President of the Government to list the five measures that have prompted us to have such economic growth as we have. And five measures to have fewer than 100,000 unemployed in Slovenia. Our country's external circumstances go hand in hand and sand in the eye is to say that, for example, Germany or France is doing well; that other European countries are doing well, that this has no impact on our country, and that only we are the ones most deserving of having, for example, positive economic growth. But these positive external circumstances, particularly in neighbouring countries, should be used by the Government in particular for concrete systemic measures or modernisation, reforms if you want to get to, for the first time, a fair home, because, above all, our citizens and citizens are called by justice, but not to penalise, on the one hand, those of us who have taken billions of taxpayers to tax havens, but who have not been convicted. So; a just country, a strong economy and a safe country, we would do it in New Slovenia right now if we were to rule.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u89	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Allow me to respond to some of the points that have been raised in the debate so far and relate to my portfolio. However, I would like to start with a final discussion and a conclusion on tax reform in Croatia. Let me correct you, and Croatia, like all countries that have joined the changes in the tax area in the last period, has decided on the process of restructuring the tax burden. Just like in Slovenia. However, unlike in Slovenia, they assessed where their key non-competitiveness was. In Slovenia, we have estimated that our key non-competitiveness is at work and we have intervened in this area. However, because we are still in a period of fiscal consolidation, we cannot afford a general reduction in the tax burden. We can afford a tax restructuring that makes this economic environment more attractive. And while political and economic financial stability cannot be anointed on bread, it is possible to build an economic system on this basis that allows everyone to spread bread with what he deserves. When I moved for this function, I said that I wanted to participate in a government that would establish conditions for everyone to live decently on their own. I do not want to participate in a society where the main criterion will be the size of social transfer. Social transfer must be corrective, but we must provide a society that will provide a decent life from its own work — current or past. I would also like to focus on the public debt statements. Yes, this is very high for the Slovenian situation, 83% of GDP reached last year. It is declining this year and is expected to decrease to 80.3% by the end of the year. But since when is this public debt? Is it from the last two years? What was accomplished when, in fact, it was so much more indebted? Relative stability and relative social peace, with which we went through the worst period of crisis. Of all these strong billions, it was only to cover current expenditure which was higher in the state budget between 2009 and 2015, 10 billion. In here, this number is not the cost of bank recovery. And what was the purpose of the bank's rehabilitation? To survive the banks as institutions? No, no, no. To avoid the collapse of the financial system and beyond, to the collapse of the real sector and to avoid the collapse of the nutritional roles of individuals. This is the goal that has been pursued in this regard! Let me also point out that, although it has already been said, I think it is worth repeating if we do not owe ourselves – does not argue that this would not be included in the length of the wider sector of the country if we were in debt through the European mechanism. It would also count. Would the interest rate be lower? At the first moment, it may be true, but the price for that would be high. The return on the bonds of the countries that decided on this alternative route increased dramatically after they returned to the markets; in Ireland 9.2 per cent, Portugal 9, Spain 7.3 per cent, in Slovenia during that period in 2012, the average debt price was 4,86, 2013-4.58, 2014-2.67, today 1.11 per cent on the ten-year bond. The fact that Slovenia has demonstrated that it is capable of providing financial resources on its own in the market has not only enabled us to reduce the interest rate by 109 million in the period 2014 to this year, namely, the expenditure of A on public debt servicing – but has also allowed for lower funding costs for the real sector. And this is the contribution of political and public financial stability to economic growth and stable economic growth and additional employment. In addition to tax reform, some concrete measures have been taken in the field of the Ministry of Finance's work. The amendment of the Value Added Tax Act reduced the company's obligations in calculating the tax on imports of goods by at least 32 million per year. Administrative simplifications adopted in at least two packages of amendments to the tax procedure have significantly contributed to faster and easier access or compliance with tax obligations. Changes in excise matters have also contributed to administrative burdens, not to other measures in other areas. All of this has also resulted in improvements in Slovenia's situation on various internationally established competitiveness scales, where we climbed the ladder last year and improved this year. Especially where the statistical data is the basis for classification. A little worse, not a little bit worse, we cut ourselves off where the basis for the classification of survey data is. We think so well of ourselves and our own country. That's too bad! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u91	Mr Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u92	Some of what has just been said is certainly not true. The difference between the price of money that Slovenian taxpayers would pay if they received money from the bank resolution fund and between the price of the money we rented at that time is around 120 million euros per year. What exactly the interest gains are, we will check whether this is true or not, as the Minister has said, just see if, in fact, everything is as you say, as the rest of your colleagues and colleagues have said, and before the President of the Government, why did the President of the Government say some hour ago that the unions should agree on what they will now do with these demands for higher wages. Because if everything were as you say, if the money were so much, if everything was nice, then 40 million extra costs for health care, no one would mind the extra money for health care, there would be no problem. If everything is as you say, why did you now get an assessment from the European Commission, which ranks Slovenia among the 6 most critical countries in terms of meeting the European criteria for the budget? If so, as you say, why has the budget been adopted, where there is a 300 million hole and should not be accepted at all. Under our legislation, the National Assembly must adopt all legislation to close expenditure and revenue before the budget is finally adopted. You've adopted a budget that has a 300-million-dollar hole. Apparently, these charts you're reading aren't worth a damn. If the situation were as good as what you're painting here, then we wouldn't have what we're monitoring today, we wouldn't have a police statement where there was a 10 million problem; we wouldn't have a medical statement where there's a 40 million problem; we wouldn't have these negotiations with public sector unions that listen to the Prime Minister, who says what kind of growth we have, how good we have, how much money, and clearly they're asking for more wages. Excuse me, if workers in a company are reading an interview with the director of this company in a newspaper where he boasts about good business results, with high profits and so on, and they have wages on the minimum – what will be the next day? Resistance, item. They're going to require some involvement in this profit. That's exactly how the government behaves here. Everything's fine, all the money you want, economic growth, all the flowers, we've stabilized everything, and when people ask for a percentage of the salary, there's no money. Can't you see you're selling illogical? That you're causing yourself trouble? So I'd advise on some rationality here. And it is not true that if we accepted the cheap money from the European Bank Resolution Mechanism, where Slovenia is also paying to require Slovenia to destroy the social state. I've heard that twice before. The requirements for bank resolution money related to the handling of these banks in the future. In the case of the New Bank of Ljubljana we should privatise it, we should put it on the shoulders of taxpayers, which we are saving for the second time today. But that's obviously not what he wants, and that's what he's defending — the non-social state. People of God, if you're listening to this, understand it's your pockets! Do not defend the sovereignty of Slovenia, do not defend the social state, defend the network that controls the largest Slovenian bank and steals it, which has already been robbed twice and wants it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u93	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u94	Let me remind you, so that by means of the funds we provided ourselves, we could have saved the banking system, we had to accept the conditions for granting State aid. These banks have received state aid; and again, I repeat, not because of the banks, but so that they can retain their function to the real sector and to the people. And an integral part of these commitments is the duty of privatisation. One bank has already been privatised, two because they have merged – and the Bank and Celje Bank – are still on this path. If requested or requested, not requested, requested for European Fund funds, they would receive additional measures requiring, in essence, action in other areas, not only in the bank. When it comes to illogicalities, the European Commission's opinion emerges – with regard to the draft budget plan, that there will be no mistake as to what I am talking about – it comes from the assumption that the Slovenian economy is overheating. This has been demonstrated by the calculations on which the European Commission's assessments are based. Indeed, they also stress the need to complete structural reforms, which we can only agree on. But if the assumption that they stem from overheating the Slovenian economy is true, why do we continue to hear that the country has to promote further economic growth by means of measures? If we hold that the Slovenian economy is overheating, we should act the other way around; we are always the target of criticism to under-encourage economic growth. Personally, I believe that current economic growth is not overheating and that it is the right way to continue to promote economic growth. But we differ in the measures to be taken in this regard. As for the budget, which has been approved. We spoke on Wednesday, last week about the state budget, which is only one part of a public or public cookie, indeed the largest, but still. When we talk about salaries in the public sector, we are not talking about salaries financed from the state budget, but we are talking about all salaries in the public sector. And the hole isn't 300 million. The agreement, which I still hope will be possible to conclude, means for the state budget to keep the obligations in the current framework. If they could not be provided, an additional 200 million or other measures should be provided for the public sector in order to essentially limit this growth. It is said, for the whole public sector, not 300, but 200 million and for the state budget, not 200 million, but 60 percent of that, 120 million. Unresistible numbers, I agree! This is why the problem needs to be resolved in essence; but this does not mean that this budget is illegal or that it cannot be implemented by January. However, it is necessary to have this unresolved issue before the eyes and, in fact, to resolve it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u96	I would point once again to one of the dictatorships that actually intensifies the tone of today's debate and points to some understanding of the whole issue, both by the government and by the government coalition. The minister said twice that we provided these funds for bank resolution. Now, Madam Minister, this is not government money. That money was borrowed. All those who pay taxes pay it, future generations will pay it. And here the difference between expensive and cheap money is important. For the minister nothing, no difference, and for most taxpayers yes. So don't take these things so easy. Because not only this government or the government that borrowed this money, but especially that government after 2008, has borrowed huge amounts of euros and dollars; this is why workers today have lower wages, pensioners have higher costs. This government, which boasts that everything is flourishing, is looking for money at all ends. Here, last time you took this law to register your bikes with an auxiliary engine, there's going to be a drip somewhere else. The scratch is everywhere and does not hold that the budget, which is not legally closed, can be accepted. It's an illegal document. There is no opinion of the Fiscal Council and there is no basis for a source of money whose consumption is foreseen. When this has at least now had to be resolved urgently, the President of the Government says that the unions should meet with each other. When this salary, by the way, appears to have been accepted by the system, not all the unions accepted it. Some were against it, but it was signed by a sufficient number of unions, and then by law it was applied to a quota that was sufficient to allow some agreement to be reached. The government didn't say it at the time, so you can all take care of each other, and when you do, we'll take it. It's just that different unions are negotiating with the government differently. Do you really believe the unions are going to make a deal with each other? This insufferable ease of managing public finances, as if it were money falling from the sky, not money that most taxpayers have to take away from their mouths, is something that has not yet been in any government. This is kind of a confirmation that we have some government of the public sector, the largest government party of the public sector or administration, and even a government of the public sector, which thinks about the economy only when it comes to a region to visit, and they see on the list that there will also be a factory to visit.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec. Prepare Mr Uroš Prikl and Mr Marko Ferruga. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you. A colleague from SMC said about an hour ago that the fact that SDS was not elected was a fact. So we are for the SMC mirage in the National Assembly or we are not even here — obviously. This is how the coalition would sometimes wish that the Slovenian Democratic Parties in Parliament would not have been, without having had any difficulty not to be warned about irregularities, without being warned through interpretations, that in fact nothing has been done in two years. If I just focus on the words of Mira Cerar in the beginning and then in the field of health. The President of the Government said in his opening address: we have made serious reforms. Given that no legislation has been adopted in health care, obviously health care, the field of health is more pervasive for the President of the Government, and it is definitely not a serious area. He also said that a coalition agreement was being implemented, a great move for the better and so on. If we go to the coalition agreement in the field of health and read all these points, then we can literally say, Madam Minister, you will probably confirm that from all these points, there are four, and then there are measures in the field of health care – seven more – nothing has been done. It's literally nothing! Now I can read you basics such as the Health Activity Act, the Pharmacy Act, the Health Insurance Act and so on. Here it is, Madam Minister, nothing, and also the President of the Government should probably know this when he said that coalition agreements are being implemented, that more than 100 per cent have been made. And let me read you another normative plan where you said in 2015 that the main law for you, the Law on Protection and Health Insurance, will be passed by 15. 5. 2016, and it's not even in public treatment today, and then I don't know how the reality in some area can be 100 percent, but if we look at the coalition contract again, it's nothing. It would therefore be wise for the Prime Minister of the Government to declare such matters in the field of health when he said that they had been limited or "wanted to limit bad practices for patients". Of course, it doesn't tell us what bad practice it is for patients. It is a question for him, however, for the Minister, whose bad practices are for the patients you have limited, which you have improved. If I go in line, just for instance, let me read the next or first of all waiting days, which are the hottest. In the interview, the minister promised to shorten the waiting periods so that this would be resolved by the end of the year. The Minister is also probably familiar with the statistics of the National Institute for Public Health, which, following the interpretation of the following month, has now seen an increase. Re-enactment of waiting periods. If we spoke less than 40,000 people a month ago when we were interpreting, today there are 42 thousand 250. Last year, during the same period, there were 30,000 600. So, waiting periods are prolonged by a doctor's statement, Madam Minister, which you have cooked because this disagreement or dissatisfaction of doctors is not from yesterday, but has been for some time now – you have been warned – these waiting periods will of course grow and will not need 120 million, Madam Minister, but you will need a little more. Of course, you say that, because of these waiting periods, there is then the skipping of waiting days by means of corruption, which has been identified or investigated in UKC Ljubljana – Madam Minister nothing. [[…]] Because it is not the health system that is responsible for corruption or skipping waiting periods, and the minister here is unable to do anything about it, so the responsibility for these matters is, of course, elsewhere. Next thing you know, when you say, "We've limited bad practices." You were at the General Hospital in Jesenice a while ago, where the hospital is an example of good practice. That's what the media said. There, if we go to artificial hips, which are also very popular today — which I will then touch, these corruption issues — we will wait for regular hip artroplastics in Slovenj Gradc for 242 days and 665 days in Jesenica. Madam Minister takes Jesenice as one of the better hospitals. And I'm going to come back to what's really going to be about how these waiting periods could possibly shorten. That's one thing. These bad practice waiting periods – how did you essentially eliminate them? The next issue is the area of corruption, Madam Minister. During this period, as well as for the President of the Government, corruption in health, corruption in general in Slovenia is very much spoken of: a lot is known, little, sometimes some things are assumed. And I'm interested by the President of the Government, or even now that the Minister is here, if you can answer me that the President of the Government has said before that corruption in Slovenia is no longer there, because since he's been in the government, it's not happening. However, if we remember the broadcast on TV, there was a lot of talk and also this, let's say I go back to the hips, where there are long waiting periods because, say, one hip is overpaid in Slovenia according to foreign prices for 800 euros. 800 euros is the salary of one nurse. One stent is a small matter for 900 euros. According to foreign markets, the salary is also almost slightly higher than that of a nurse who has a slightly higher working age. If we put all this together, all this money created by corruption in health care, Madam Minister, then perhaps there would be no waiting days, because this money that is being paid in health care could be spent on the salaries of nurses, doctors and so on. I would like to know, given that in the 9th point of your coalition agreement, you have written “nothing tolerance for corruption in health”, what the hell have you done so far to limit these matters in order to at least tell people what you think about these matters. Since you have not responded to anything until today; you have not responded to a statement by the former director of UKC Ljubljana, who spoke of even suppliers going to the President of the Government, and you have not responded? You don't respond to different investigations, you don't want to comment. The same applies to the President of the Government. But interestingly, tomorrow you will sign the Transparency International Integrity Pact, which is a society of integrity that is supposed to be an independent society, and it was founded by Drago Kos, who in NLB in one hour deserves two minimum wages, is also the founder of Blaž Zgaga, who, we know, produced the Patria affair, and co-founders are also former KPK employees, who call them a couple of anti-corruption commissions. This is supposed to be an independent society, which includes members of various political parties in its society. With this company, you will sign a pact tomorrow to determine or ensure that corruption in public procurement does not occur. And this same society found a week ago that the most corrupt part of the country is the National Assembly. Now I ask you Members, which one of you has received any bribe to be corrupt, because the National Assembly is the most corrupt in these studies. And tomorrow you're signing a pact to help you expose or prevent corruption in public procurement. It seems more like, then, Madam Minister, you will sign this pact so that corruption will not be detected. So I could hide if I could say so. That's all I'd touch, jobs. Earlier it was said that it employs very much, it employs through agencies, foreign agencies in Slovenia, which grew in 2014-2015 by 24%. These are the employment agencies that employ young people, older people, they drive them by buses from Celje to Ljubljana for medical examinations, they have so many jobs. These people employed by these foreign agencies work for EUR 420 in three shifts. These agencies, which then have big profits, also help to reduce unemployment, but we can ask ourselves what jobs are really. So much for me. And I would certainly force the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The Minister of Health, Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Just a month ago, on 18 October, the National Assembly rejected the interpretation submitted by the SDS party by a large majority. At that time, in a day-long debate, I argued that I had rejected all the allegations, which Mrs Jelka Godec has now repeated, among other things. However, I will repeat some things briefly, and above all I will focus on the future, because the past, unfortunately, is one in which you have also participated in the government and which is due to a 15- or 20-year non-action in solutions or in the field of health as a whole. Yeah, I'll do it again. The government has a zero tolerance for corruption in its coalition agreement. And when you tell me we haven't done anything, you obviously don't know or you don't know how much activity has been done in this area and how much savings have been made. But let me remind you, so public institutions – who orders materials in public institutions? Whose responsibility is it? I don't think there's any need for an answer here. What have we done? A general invitation to tender for medicinal products where we have saved 20% of the money from the use of these medicines is being issued in a public order of medical devices for all hospitals in Slovenia. It is 460 days late because, of course, everyone in Slovenia complains and everyone submits audits. Yeah, obviously, 'cause there's a lot of money in the game! By common procurement, with the definition of technical standards, we have saved the most modern equipment for 7 emergency centres more than 3.3 million or almost 33 percent. In the coming year, we are planning a joint public procurement order for expensive medical equipment, such as CT, which costs between a million and 500 000 euros. Let me also say that I will meet with hospital directors tomorrow because we already have a proposal to publish publicly on the website the prices of medical devices and equipment for all hospitals in Slovenia. I will also request further requests or conclusions from hospital directors. And I will call once again: all those who speak and are full of corruption, and I do not know how many times I have called, no one has ever given me any declaration or any contract. But he's very, very easily manipulated, talking from 10 to 500 million. That's extremely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u101	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u102	But I'm going to do all of this, like I said, we're going to get to a stage, like I say, of zero corruption. But it is primarily the responsibility of those who make tenders that they purchase, and we will ensure that technical standards and standards are harmonised and that we provide the lowest possible prices with common public procurement for most of the consumption in health institutions. Including equipment, tools, materials and medicines! Now let me explain a few more things about the initial Fides agreement, because there's been a lot of talk about this over the last 24 hours. The agreement with Fides is without prejudice to the single wage system of the public sector. We also clarified this at a meeting yesterday with the President of the Government. That I did not exceed the powers given to me by the Government, this was confirmed by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Public Administration. All documents are documented, after all the dates, conclusions and materials of the Government which it has accepted in relation to the negotiating points it has given to me and the entire government negotiating group. The agreement at no point interferes with the single payment system, contains only a commitment by the Government to mediate the proposal for a wage law on the abolition of the progress limit by 1.12. in coordination with the public sector union and, following coordination with the declaration of the degree of coordination, to the National Assembly. I can tell my fellow Jew, as well as some of the discussers here in the hall, that the agreement does not raise the standard of doctors, but patients. These are the facts. The agreement is designed to allow doctors to have more time for the patient than they have today, so that the family doctor will have time to consult a colleague on a secondary level and that there will be fewer unnecessary referrals to the secondary level and thus fewer waiting periods. It is also a mechanism, and all of this is only a pilot project with a limited duration, where we will check and introduce for the first time in the history of Slovenia the quality elements of health services and safety elements, as these must also be elements of the work of the awarding of doctors. And that's not a raise. That's why we negotiated extra outpatient hours that doctors are going to have to do. We have written such criteria as the other world knows, which values and rewards quality, success, honest work for the benefit of patients. If this is not a good starting point and if this is not well placed and well negotiated for patients. Of course, if someone works more, better and better on these elements, they will also get part of the variable work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u103	Mr Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much. This last one was interesting to listen to, and only a minister has to convince her boss to do so with coalition partners. Several of these negotiations between the Government and Fides remind me of 2008 when the war broke out in Georgia. At that time, the new President of the European Union, French President Sarkozy, tried to intervene and sent a peace agreement to Moscow and Tbilisi, sending two different variants. Moscow accepted one, the Georgians accepted another, he announced that peace had been achieved, and then they found that there were two different texts. We have an approximate situation now between the Government and Fides. Apparently, someone's been doing a little bit of swindling here, avoiding responsibility. The Medical Union has just announced that the President of the Government will have to take responsibility for his indecisiveness if this agreement falls. It'll be interesting here. See, you all have a mouthful of patients and patients when you talk about these things, but these patients and patients are dying in some Slovenian hospitals today in the hallway of intensive departments, many waiting too long for emergency interventions. Here, the consequences are counted in life. Now we've heard how the government has invested more money in getting more health workers. It would be difficult to establish it in terms of the state it is. In fact, every day it drips information on how respected, professional, experienced doctors leave Slovenian public health care and do not go to the public sector of Slovenia, but go abroad. Soon more Slovenian doctors will work in Dubai, London, Celovac, Vienna than in Ljubljana. These holes are then filled with people coming mainly from the republics of the former country. Many people don't even know the language that I'm talking about. Of course, in the end, there are patients, people who suffer the consequences. Apparently, there's a lot of double standards around here. Over the last few weeks, we've all been horrifyingly following the breakup of this case with the little girl Nega. A two-year-old kid was disconnected from the machines thinking he was going to die, and he survived. Not the doctors, but the decision makers, Mr. Kenda, and obviously the people at the Department of Health Insurance, were opposed to sending the child to treatment abroad even after their confusion proved obvious. It was hard to talk about earlier, but after the error was evident, it was clear that the decision should be swift. Today, a girl is in treatment in neighboring Italy for the intervention of parents who were already worried about her life here. The big problem was with that decision. However, we know a number of other cases when people received important first-class citizens of this country immediately received public funds for the spinal surgery in Switzerland, in Celovac, wherever it is not. We give it to everyone, God give it to everyone, but these criteria, in the case of public health, must apply to all the same. At this point, it turns out someone's making fun of it. As far as corruption is concerned and this pathetic call from the minister to report corruption if you know it. Madam Minister, over the past few years, it has been – not on the central Slovenian media, which are mainly concealing this, but on the various Internet portals on alternative media published with data, with numbers, with names on dozens of cases of obvious corruption. One of these cases is also investigated by the commission of inquiry in the National Assembly, led by our colleague Godec. This is a single concrete case of corruption you know in the sky. We also discussed this with the Commission on Budgetary Control and the Director of the Clinical Centre confirmed it. When we asked her why some orders got the company from Gorica, she said, but if she doesn't get them, then there's a problem, intervened by the President of the Government, the President of the State, it's chaos and so on. You have a tape on the tape of her statement, which she then tried to withdraw. There was no investigation into this, at least I didn't track it anywhere. Otherwise, if, as usual, the POT TV camera was there earlier as a criminalist, everyone would know that, because it's always being used in one way or another. This is a very specific case. For 20 years — for ten years, to be accurate, for which data are available — the surrogacy was sold to various Slovenian public health institutions by 50 percent higher, once more higher, twice higher, three times higher. This company that was selling is known as Mark Medical. This is a company owned by KB 1909. This is a company in Italy's Gorica, the successor to the former Safti, the Udbov network, through which the Slovenian party laundered money and more. This transaction took place about 20 million a year, in ten years 200 million euros. 200 million euros, some of which have been overpaid three times. At least EUR 100 million was stolen from Slovenian patients, and hundreds of people died more than they did. Corruption to heaven! Are you investigating her? KPK said, if I'm not mistaken, a few days ago that everything was fine with it. There are price data, all the data is, the commission of inquiry has this data, this data has been published – but no! Why? Now this same company owns a media network, owned by Mladina. The youth comes from money stolen from Slovenian patients, the Slovenian health system. It's been known for at least two years since it was published with data and numbers and so on, see. When this came out, this company was shut down recently and they were transferring stuff, but it's back data for ten years. It's a question of what happened before. Well, it's supposed to be a national television show tomorrow on this very issue. In the National Assembly, we have an investigative commission dealing precisely with this suspicion of corruption. Do you think that people on national or government television who are doing this show are coming? I asked my colleague Godcheva earlier; no one answered, they are not interested, they are not invited by the opposition to this Target, but they are inviting – see now this is their letter – Boris Koprivnikar, SMC, Harry Furlan of the family that participated in these transactions, Dr. Igor Šoltes. Mr Scholtes was President of the Court of Auditors at a time when this particular malversion took place when the Court of Auditors examined these public institutions and found nothing. And now he's gonna be there to wash himself. Andrejo Cuffer of the Jesenic; no one from the opposition came near the investigative commission. In short, it is once again a manoeuvre of the network to direct public attention with, I will say, a major problem to some side problems, where there will probably be some sacrifices that they will sacrifice – collateral damage will be. I will not be surprised if in two days we read that the minister is gone too — for some other reason. But there's gonna have to be something done here to let go of as big a fog as possible. And the media is doing it a lot. Last week, this particular case was also discussed in this same broadcast. Watch out, they didn't even mention these so-called first-class investigative journalists when they mentioned Mark Medical that this is a proprietary octopus owned by the media in Slovenia. On this same topic, journalists and editors on this same television explain the same media, the owner of which is a company that has withdrawn tens of millions of euros from the Slovenian health system only on this suspicion of a corruption case. So, you've got a lot on your plate, investigate! There's got to be a lot of this in the archives of the Ministry. Today most of this is electronic and there is no problem finding these things. This is what is happening now with regard to these misunderstandings and complications in the negotiations with the unions, this is one part of the problem that is called the state of Slovenian health and is serious. If you do not do something serious here and agree with the union for some real solutions that will not only benefit those most paid in the Slovenian health system. Not everyone is affected the same way; there are doctors who work days and nights for a thousand 500 euros a month, and there are directors who get 5,000. But they get 5,000 euros a month on duty, as we see on the Ipes. Only those who support at least one more will I say the satisfactory level of health services in Slovenian public health care, they are leaving. Exodus from the Slovenian health system in terms of leaving really professional personnel is huge, you know. Therefore, the system may collapse in some segments in a relatively short time. I can do it before the end of this government's mandate, so I appeal to you or to someone who will come to you shortly to take this problem seriously.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u105	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the government! Of course, I am aware that it is difficult to say something completely new after almost ten hours, something that would not already be said either at today's meeting or at any of the previous meetings of this National Assembly. In opening, I must say that I understand the role of the opposition, I think I understand it very well and respect the use of the legitimate instrument, the Institute of Interpellation, but in some ways I cannot shake the feeling that this institution is becoming an interpolation all too often in this National Assembly. I'd even hope to say there's been an inflation of interpolation. Seven is here today. Seven times we are already talking about the responsibility of an individual minister and a minister, even today, of the responsibility or role of the whole government. What is wrong with me in this discussion of grief? It saddens me that, on the part of the proposaler of the interpolation and the opposition members, the situation in our country is very negative, very black, and somehow, if someone listened to it from a distance, the few days would get the feeling that there are some extraordinary situations that are being prepared here, that we are in a situation where we need to form a government of national unity and so on. Of course it's not about black and white, not yet. It's in a variety of nuances. In my debate, I will not focus on a single department, on an individual minister, I will not go to a particular segment of the government's operation, because I think that it is necessary to view the whole government as a unit, a closed unit, and perhaps by this illustration I will repeat myself from some past discussions. I understand this government as a chain that is as strong as its weakest member, a single pillar. And I don't want to talk here about who it might be or who it is, of course. We had a government budget meeting a few days ago, which was not a government interpretation session, but it was some kind of exam, some kind of mature exam. It's everywhere, in every democracy. In all parliamentary democracies, the most important meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly is that budget meeting, and if the budget is adopted, this examination has been carried out and goes on with the budget adopted, its implementation and the implementation of the government's policy. Here I have to say that there are some positive indicators, not least we are on the way to reducing the deficit, especially the structural deficit. It is in some way a small reduction, but a gradual reduction in indebtedness, there is a relatively stable economic growth that we must maintain in this stability. Last but not least, it is that we have, I think, evident political stability, which was not a practice in the past. Of course, I will, however, touch on those areas that directly or indirectly concern social, social and thus all citizens and citizens of this country. The budget, the coalition agreement, the coalition agreement clearly sets out priorities in the field of training, education, the labour market, if you want to be more specific, active employment policies are earmarked for more resources. This is a mechanism by which we can somehow train or give new knowledge to future employees, those from whom we expect them to come into a permanent working relationship and reduce the number of unemployed. We allocate more funding for scholarships, we allocate more resources for the nutrition of students, students, we allocate more funds for family transfers, we allocate more funds for social transfers, and I am pleased that in the projections we allocate less resources to compensate the unemployed, which means that we are counting, justly counting on them to be fewer, and that they will also be more likely to be in the state budget and both of them at the expense of contributions and taxes. In one word, we also have the opportunity to somehow close or loosen the famous ZUJF, which has been said too much in the past. Of course, we expect many things in the future in the field of social affairs. We expect a law on long-term care as an integral concept of health and social protection, some steps have been taken in this area, but for my taste, personally, too little, things need to be accelerated, also providing funding sources and, of course, it is in the competent ministers for both work and health care in order to take a step forward. They're not just waiting types of health problems. We also expect the Government to adopt the Social Security Benefits Act tomorrow. As a result, the matter will be taken up by Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly in December and the Social Security Benefits Act will enter into force with effect from 1. 1. 2017. I can't imagine it wouldn't be like that. And I guess I could count something. Last but not least, we promised the disabled organisations the Personal Assistance Act if the Long-Term Care Act was not to be brought to life. We also expect this government to continue its concern and concern for public and accessible education or education for all. There has been too much talk about health care and it is likely that my colleague Gantar will say more from the point of view or from the point of view of our Group of Members, so I will not touch that and I will touch two more points. One is local government. We all come from the congregations, we are all representatives, even if you are some from Ljubljana, you are also representatives of a local community, and I am extremely sad that these negotiations with the municipalities do not bring success. I believe that the government side is talking to them, negotiating that it is trying to find solutions, but unfortunately there are no solutions. I am strongly aware that the agreement requires two parties, if bilateral negotiations are to take place, or more parties, if multilateral negotiations are to take place. But it's just that it's so easy here if it's all in your power. Municipalities, local communities are burdened with certain tasks, some unnecessary tasks. We burden them with unnecessary administrative obstacles, and then there will not be as much appetite on the part of municipalities in financing or principals as it is at the moment. I think it's good will to do that. Last but not least, this deadlock in the negotiations, this deadlock in the agreement between the state and local communities, which I must point out once again in this place, and I also believe that it calls for this, cries out under the law on the provinces. I only hope that once in this country there will be enough wealth and political will to reach this law. I don't know a man who has anything against this marriage because it only brings good. Of course, all this final talk is irrelevant if we do not allow the economy, our exporters – Slovenia is, as you know, primarily a priority export oriented economy – unless we provide them with preconditions for smooth work, for the employment of young people and so on and so on. I think that, in all our concern for a balanced budget, to reduce deficits and so on and so forth, we have to take care of two things: that the social state is still living or making progress, that we have in our country's constitution, that we can take care of those who for themselves for such or other reasons cannot take care of them, and that we will also keep savings in all these measures, if you want, that we allow the economy to have that fort, that progress that is simply on the path of added value and that it creates those incomes, not least for the budget, and that people will not have to drive daily to the neighbouring country or, if you want, in my view, through the Trojans to Ljubljana. That this government hasn't done anything, that's just a little bit of hair drawn. Of course, if you want to show in a glass of half water or any other drink, you can show that this cup is half empty if you are pessimistic or half full if you are optimistic. You know, personally, I've never been a lawyer for this government. Never! And I will never be a lawyer for this government. I will always be critical, always carrying a moderate dose of criticism within me, because I believe that this has led to progress. At this point, I would expect more or more results. I've mentioned the laws I'm expecting before, but I'm trying to be realistic. I'm trying to be realistic. There have been many mistakes in the past and the question for all these matters is paid by this government and this current coalition. Let's not run from responsibility. If we ran from responsibility, we wouldn't go to the government, we wouldn't support ideas, and at the same time we wouldn't be that critical moment, if you wanted, in this government that would encourage it to continue to do better, more efficient, faster work. Personally, I believe that, not least after many years, we have in some way adopted in a conceptual way one platform of state-owned management, what remains of state. I am talking, of course, about the Slovenian State Holding Act and one of the most important documents of the Capital Investment Management Strategy. I expect a lot from this strategy; I expect this, of course, not to go on sale, not to say sledging state property. I expect clear, measurable objectives for the management of state silver and the resulting profitability of the management of companies that are at least partly owned by the State. As a result, I expect that, when the long-awaited demographic fund is in place in early next year, I also expect that it will be able to finance itself adequately, for the next fifteen, twenty years also accumulating and that it will only then come to life in the true sense of the word and that it will become, say and write, a guarantee for the smooth payment of pensions. This is now recognized, acknowledged, acknowledged – however, demographic trends require action. They are now demanding action to think about what will happen in ten, twenty and more years. I think this is one of the solutions that will be absolutely positive. I wouldn't call for reform here. And not because by the default of reform, this one weird expression that puts all the hair I have on my head, both gray and black, on my head, but because when we start talking about reform, something crazy, something big, something that puts everything on my head, it seems to me that nothing is going on. However, if we are talking about some procedures, some evolutionary changes, one step at a time, then I think we can expect a lot – both in the area of social policy and in the area of family policy, which are close to me and have been exposed several times today, as well as health policies, where action is needed quickly, immediately and now. That's where the situation really is in the sky. Just when I'm done. I've never claimed it, and it's probably the fact that at this point you're pouring honey and milk. We are probably far from India, but it is true, of course, that economic trends, economic trends, are favourable. As I have already said, we are net exporters, which is very important, the number of unemployed is declining, there is a clear and relatively stable economic growth that we need to maintain, the debt is declining and could list positive indicators. Since these positive indicators are evident, it is reasonable to expect, and this is what people expect, but we are here to put these expectations into effect, but I especially see the government as executive knowledge of the authorities that something is also known in life because of these positive waves or, if you want, in people's pockets. They rightly expect this because they have been tightening belts for too long in the past, and it is no longer possible to do so. I expect, whether I wish or even demand that we continue to withdraw the ZUJF, to gradually but progressively release restrictive measures, but by no means do I expect and do not want stupid, stupid fiscal tightening, tightening, because I also know that monetary policy itself with its own measures, such or otherwise, cannot guarantee economic growth or in the medium term, let alone in the long term. But fiscal policy, as I have already said, must not behave in a way that is often in the past, that is just an onion concept of belt tightening, peeling and so on. As we say, people expect it from us, and we owe it to these expectations to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u107	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgle and Mr Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the ministerial team. My countrymen would say, "Non sono solo rose e fiori." Which means it's not just the flowers and it's not just the sun that shines with this government. We have some reality, and we have some facts. All the problems that have arisen with this government are not only those governments, but also those of previous governments. Let's not forget a little history, just in case. But here with this government, everything's great and everything's fine, but it's a long way from that. We must be content with this ourselves. What do you do? Here comes one of these, I'll say, hyperinflation of our interpretations. This is purely legitimate political folklore, but I think it's more of a tactical move by our colleagues. Of course, all of this is great and right, but a person is reluctant to get such a feeling that it is a matter of conceiving, childish conjecture. If it goes in the direction of constructive criticism, I agree, there is no problem, but then here I always wonder how much there is in all of this some premonition and hypocrisy of everything. Now bending down all the incoherence, inaction on this government, I don't think it's right. In order for this government to be bolder, more ambitious, more radical, however, we agree. Most of all, because I come from the economic sector where we are used to faster action, less red tape, fewer legislative options, commas, dots and lines. In the end, a person, at least as he sees how this structure is made, is in agreement with the fact that he does not go as fast as he would like. Here, however, the Government is obliged to create favourable conditions for economic activity and growth and to prevent this official bureaucratic logic, which is wrapped in a film of legislation and certain regulations. To talk about whether this government is lucky, whether it's sports luck or something else, given that the world's economic growth is in a positive trend, we can also debate this. But when you're lucky, you have to know how to challenge her, and you have to challenge her for your own good. Whether we want it or not, and if we are honest with ourselves, despite all the criticisms, this government has done something and these things need to be said clearly and loudly. And if you'll excuse me, I'll tell you at least two segments that I'm covering or I have my hand over as you please. Of course it's the first police that's kind of very close to me. I think this government, and also this minister, has shown how serious she thinks the security pillar of the system is the police. And she also showed that she knows how and that she stands up for the police and that the police have the force that belongs to her. So that I don't just talk in the blank, I'm just going to write down a few numbers that I think are very important. Thus, 2015 was 23 and a half million given, 2016 30 million and the 2017 and 2018 trend is also positive. We're not going to talk about police getting new boats and new vehicles to hire more than 225 new police officers to get the equipment. But there is another such little pain for Coper Police Station, but well, I hope we can solve it once in a while. Here goes my thanks to all the police and the police for their efforts and work, even in this part of the migration crisis. To return to the other sector that I am covering and that is close to me, the economy, and what I am more concrete, is tourism. I think it is also here with our help, my help, if I may say so, but I am proud that I am despicable, that we have changed some understanding of what tourism means as an economic sector, that we have taken over the WTO, which is very important for its independent and more active operation, and not least that more than 11 million funds have been allocated to promote Slovenia, which is positive, which goes to support economic democracy. And let us not forget that today in Iran there is an open embassy, which is extremely important for the economy, and it has also been initiated by the Slovenian economy. It is said that some positive steps are being taken. To mention here is another matter, which is likely to be further continued by my Koroan colleagues, it is said that the Ministry of Economy has also established a Directorate for Wood, because we believe that this is our raw material, one of the strategic and one of the most powerful raw materials we have in Slovenia. And maybe a little bit more about concert numbers, so we don't just talk in general. Here I have certain results which are selected from the SURS, Eurostat, the ECB and the European Commission, as far as Slovenia is concerned. Economic growth, according to 2014 3.1, 2015 2.3, which is in the ranking within the EA19, is said to be a monetary union, in 7th place. Growth in exports of goods and services, 2014 5,7, 2015 5,6, which is in the ranking within EA19 at 5th place. Balance of current balance of payments account, 2014 6.2, 2015 5.2, which is again in the ranking – 5th place. The debt of non-financial corporations in 2014 was 109, in 2015 94, which ranks EA19 – 5th. The balance of the state sector, which I think is very important, was 5% in 2014, in 2015 it was 2.7, so it was shrinking and we are 14th. As far as the debt sector of the country is concerned, we did not really succeed here, so 2014 is 81, 2015 is 83.2, but we are still ranked within EA19 at 9th place. So I think there are encouraging indicators here. However, as I said, Mr Janša himself said that for some changes you need 4 years, we have not made certain changes in 25 years of Slovenia yet, I wonder why and how, but this is again a matter of further debate. Perhaps, though, you could tell us this: In the final stage, this government will be responsible for all its actions — whether they are, we are, or we are not — in the next election. But here it will actually show up, and no matter what it says, it is very much invested in various marketing advertising, what someone has done and what they have not done, but I think that people will be able to assess themselves with their sober head what they think and how they see the work of all ministries, governments and in the final stage also us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u109	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Dusan Radič and Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In his introductory address, the President of the Government also said, among other things, that the findings in the interpretation were unfounded. The President of the Government did not substantiate this with anything, including Members coming from his own kind, practically did not have the principles of any success of the Government of Mir Cerar in their deliberations, but in particular they dealt with some other individuals, but today they are absolutely not intertwined. Then the Prime Minister told us that this government works for the people. I want to know which people. For those first-class certainly, you have proven this many times, but I am interested in citizens and citizens in particular. Unfortunately for you, Mira Cerar and the government led by Miro Cerar did not take care of this. Then the President of the Government said: “We are making big moves, and this is moving for the better.” But he didn't tell us again what those big moves were. And now let's go in a row, maybe I'll know how to list them. First of all, lowering standards in the field of human rights protection – this is obviously a big shift or a shift to a better one. You all know that the European Court of Human Rights has made clear in its 2015 report that Slovenia is the country that holds first place in human rights violations. It is true that this is a right to a decision within a reasonable period of time, most of the time, but the President of the Government, as a constitutional lawyer, must know that if this right is violated, all other rights are consequently violated. Then I wonder if perhaps the Prime Minister of the Government thought that these great movements were for the better in that he did not establish the Fiscal Council, even though he should, and this is a constitutional lawyer, a doctor of constitutional law. We have fallen on all international scales, and violations of the Constitution and the law have increased, and thus human rights — if these are large movements or movements for the better, I do not understand that. Not to mention the money being thrown through the window in the case of world candidates, at Dr. Danil Türk's last candidacy, these nominations tend to be more egotized than at heart if I paraphrase our President Janez Janša. Then, for example, a big shift for the President of the Government could probably be that he provided €123 million for migrants in the budget, whereas he did not give a cent for the treatment of little Neže. Then a big shift is probably an example of the Korean boys. The Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has always protected the centres for social work and has not accepted responsibility, despite the decisions of the courts that the removal of boys was illegal. So, ladies and gentlemen, in these two years, the Government of Mir Cerar has fallen on virtually all international scales measuring the effectiveness of each country in various fields. We have fallen on the economic freedom scale, we have fallen on a scale of protection and respect for human rights, we have fallen on all the scales that measure the functioning of the rule of law and the social state. If we look only at the contract or what you have entered into the coalition contract, we can see that only 10% of the projects have been implemented so far, even though we are already in the second part of your mandate. This proves quite a few things: that you have stepped into too many shoes and that you are inefficient in your work, incapacitated, and especially ministers do not accept responsibility for failures and when they violate either the constitution, legislation and so on. We need to know that once you become a minister, there is an objective and not only subjective responsibility to be held accountable. Speaking of the country's effectiveness in the area of economic freedom in relation to the functioning of the rule of law, we cannot help but say that this government has done virtually nothing to identify those responsible for the bank hole and those responsible for the other banking crime. On Friday, as we discussed the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry on the Factor Bank and the Probank, I said, or through this interim report, that we could all come to the conclusion that the justice system is actually one that has not done its homework. In these cases, police have filed several criminal charges, if I am not mistaken in the total amount of around €800 million, but it has stopped again and again with prosecutors and judges. And, of course, the Minister of Justice, who is a major anti-corruption fighter, is also responsible for this, but from now on I will begin to believe that more so, on paper or in words, and in actions nowhere, dear Minister. Here I ask you: What did you do to effectively prosecute the justice system and then condemn those responsible for the bank hole? I wonder if in this case too, Mr Klemenčič, if no one is convicted, their heads will fly? Or if things get old? And I ask you to answer that too, because for the first time you investigated a bank hole when you were the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, but except that after or that your deputy then got a job at the New Ljubljana Bank, which, of course, he was investigating before, you did nothing. We have always warned that this is a serious case of clientelism. You have not raised your voice that your deputy should not have received this service in the New Ljubljana Bank. Today the Commission has also confirmed this to prevent corruption or a few days ago. The second time you went to the bank hole after two years of mandate, after two years of mandate, you went to Iceland, you thought you would get some concrete information there. As you know, 47 people who were responsible for the hole were convicted in Iceland in a very fast time. But one more interesting thing, just under the two years of your term, you started investigating this bank hole, it's said, after your wife made almost 900 thousand euros to represent the bank against the former government. And may I trust you, Your Honor Minister, and this government that you truly mean in persecuting corruption, banking crime and so on? See, in this reference to Parliament, we have an extremely large number of lawyers, and a great many lawyers are also in the government; many doctors are legal, even constitutional lawyers, even the President of the Government himself is a doctor of constitutional law, but most violations of the Constitution and thus human rights. If the esteemed President of the Government were sitting here, of course, I would ask him – I hope he is following us somewhere, so that he can answer certain questions. I would like to ask: When will you, honourable Prime Minister of the Government, accept or take responsibility for all violations of the Constitution committed by your government knowingly? Not to mention that you still have at least two ministers among the violators of the government, Mr Goran Klemenčič and Mrs Maja Makovec Brenčič. Of course, there were still unconstitutional decisions. Also taking away Janez Janša's mandate, as the Constitutional Court said. In short, the most ethical government, a government that is full of lawyers, a parliament that is full of lawyers, works most against the Constitution and against human rights. Of course, I ask you, Mr President of the Government, as responsible for the transparency of the conduct in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and also as a doctor of constitutional law, which you will most likely be when this unfortunate attempt of your trip to politics is completed, moved back to the classrooms and lectured students. There you will have to explain to the students why you act as a politician as a real constitution and what you teach as a constitutional lawyer. I hope to receive answers to my questions as soon as the President of the Government returns to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. He asked the Mag for a word. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Member, because I will answer to her in the main, honourable fellow Members and Members. You have asked a few questions, something also directly to me, and I will try to answer them in three sets. Something about data and numbers first. You know, or some of your colleagues know my famous When numbers talk, bullshit walks, another thing about what was done, and another personal note. I have to admit, I listened to you out there. You said, and before you, your colleague Tanko and others, that on all the charts Slovenia falls. I know we live in a virtual world, but you like to tweet very much in your client, and Trump hashtag and so on; but look, I don't know if we're looking at the same numbers or not. The most credible comparative analysis of the functioning of the justice system is the EU Justice Scoreboard. We'll probably agree with that. It has been working for many years and Slovenia is always involved. It has about 30 different indicators. Mr. Ivan Janša made one speech today. The only one that Slovenia is worse placed on today than it was when this government had to leave the government rooms because of suspicion of corruption and under pressure from the public a few years ago. And that is the credibility or confidence of the public, the perception of the public as to the quality of the judiciary, which is understandablely low. Partly because they deserve this – and I never took them to the defense needlessly – but mostly because every week there are party – pardons, protests by the board, meetings before the court and of course criminal courts and so on. That's 30 criteria the only criteria we went down. Now we're going in order because we're falling everywhere. I've done something that's very easy to check on every citizen. We're talking about the moment your government left its post. At that time, according to the EU Justice Scoreboard, the time for dealing with civil and economic legal matters was on average 420 days, last year or this year is 230 days. The time for handling administrative matters when you were leaving was 250 days, today is 150 days. The time of resolution in the event of insolvency was when you left us at Gregorčič, I think the circus is 2 years old, this year is 9 months. You have a lot of judges, you often say. I agree. The first Janša government hired 200 of them to solve the Lukenda problem. When you left the government chambers, there were a thousand 118 judges, today there were 911. There is also a decline in the human rights problem everywhere. The economic freedom index was highlighted by a colleague of Irgle's. The same report also shows an index of human freedom relating to human rights violations in relation to the justice system. From 151 countries Slovenia holds 15. The place. Great, good 15th place. The ECHR was mentioned by a colleague of Irgle's. Holding, although the methodology, we discussed it, there were also extraordinary meetings, but yes, Slovenia was one of the biggest violators before the ECHR according to that methodology. That was when you were in the government, and so it was when this government began and took office. By the end of this month, this number will be nearly halved, because we have managed to reach a resolution of those systemic judgments, such as Kurić, such as Lukenda and so on, and statistics will be the second year, but we will be, I don't know, immeasurably better. [[…]] Almost halfway through, things are gonna move, like I said. You also asked what this government has done for an individual, for a human being. In the framework of the enforcement procedures, we have also protected the most vulnerable groups through work at the Ministry of Justice. Colleagues from the Member States said what had been done on various other amendments to the judiciary legislation. You asked what it was like to deal with banking matters and banking legislation or prosecution of banking crime. This Parliament has imposed higher penalties on the Government's proposal for corruption crimes, yet it has clearly defined tax evasions, 30 new prosecutors have sworn, we have set up a special financial confiscation department in the Special Prosecutor's Office and have made it possible to hire external experts. When you were leaving, the investment in the judiciary, in the prosecution, I don't know about the other authorities, was one of the lowest. I know it's been a difficult time, but this government has tried to turn this trend into new people, into education and, above all, into better work on this most difficult crime. Iceland. I didn't go there after two years because you'd understand? [[…]] Don't you? I went there to see if these solutions are the right ones that we have proposed and can be seen from April onwards on our website and are now in intersectoral coordination. I don't know if any colleague of Logar has copied from this CAP, because now you're also proposing changes to the CAP. In April, even before you gave yourself away, we prepared it, so now we're coordinating. So often, when you simplify, when you say half things, don't hold the number, how closed it is in Iceland, don't hold what your colleague Tanko said, in two years they've made it all up there. We had to postpone our visit to Iceland for a month because the prosecutor was still in court because the proceedings were still ongoing there. But they're absolutely better, no doubt. Yesterday we also discussed why the two-step judiciary and so on. But steps in the right direction were taken. But I am the first one who is not satisfied with the fact that things are not going as fast and as well as they might be; but, as we said, the government can set up the legal framework, it can put in the staff and it can give money. This government did it. In the end, it's just a personal note. I think not only every Slovenian, but anyone who comes once a year to Bled knows what personal problems your client has with me personally. In this sense, I will overlook such lies as clientelism. Term Praprotnik – I read that in the middle of today, I was not impressed, I said in Parliament that he had made that decision. But it is not true that today the KPK decided that this was about customerism. She decided specifically that there was no conflict of interest. But the numbers you presented yesterday about the Factor Bank, they're pretty much discredited. Just as it was the last time in a newspaper that my wife, since I was a minister, had received from state firms and institutions, I don't know, 200 or 300,000 euros, with remittances from courts for compensation to others. Factor bank, she started working with her before I was a minister on the basis of a recommendation from the Hypo Bank. The amounts are absolutely not true because they were not about the payment that I would then sit on, but about the valuers, the experts and so on. The Secretary-General is already looking at me badly because we've been agreed to be shorter, but I'm never in that sense. Please, one of my things that always keeps me alive is if I have some sort of opponent like you, with all your equipment trying to take me and my family off one way or another, but you failed, that means I'm doing something right. And one last thing. Yes, we also asked about water tables, but we also asked about car payments with cash, brothers, sisters, and so on. And since it has been written lately that someone will follow Trump's example, in the end all I say is, "My brother has lent me." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Proposer. Here you go, Mr. Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u114	Here we have actually heard a lot of what is involved in that proverb that the minister initially quoted about time. In fact, when it comes to dealing with second-class institutions for which the Minister is partly in charge, time can be very quick. For example, I was convicted this year during court holidays, from March to August, there was a judgment I had not received at all. Only the paper said I was convicted. An extraordinary speed that has certainly fixed the average! On the other hand, you have in court I don't know how many, a few ten cases say, against Zoran Jankovic. There's no judgment there yet! Some things have been old since 2006. The judge who wrote on Facebook, and this Zoki has something, was, as we read, moved from a higher position to an investigative department and is investigating – do you know anyone? The one who has something! And it's taking time. The D.A.'s office. A lot of media have been writing about the Ornig case. Criminologists have been telling the co-worker that he's been hacking into our citizens' accounts, e-invoices of citizens. Some prosecutor, I think it's written by Suknaich, directed them. Then it came on the day, the police department kind of brought it all down to the criminals, the law enforcement department in the authorities that have powers, took over the case, and see, this same prosecutor, who previously directed the criminals, they/they moved into this special group, and he is now investigating those he previously directed. Super juridical state! It's absolutely laufa. Recall Mr Klemenčič's statement when he was asked at a press conference: “What will the Commission do to prevent corruption” at the time, “orders to investigate corruption in granting unsecured loans?” The biggest problem at the time was that the Slovenian public realized that it was. Difficult words have fallen down as soon as Slovenia shakes since the Commission's findings. We're monitoring earthquakes, but it hasn't happened yet. The Commission will now go; one of the members has received a well-paid job at the largest state bank, and the wife of Mr Klemenčič is a greasy business, not only at the Factor Bank, but also elsewhere. Maybe there's a number wrong, but it's a lot of fat business. It's about greasy business and not making excuses that there was something else in the middle that didn't belong there. We are not talking here about cousins with whom, when it comes to others, Mr Klemenčič is always interested, we are talking about closer family members. For Mr Klemenčič, it is a problem if someone borrows from his brother, but it is not a problem if someone goes to the state bank and steals 50 million there. That's no problem. This is the view of the persecutor of corruption, one of the main protectors of corruption in the country. Systemic corruption. And the constant answer to these problems that are being raised is that we will change the rules. This is where the Minister is successful. He has already changed a lot of rules and has proposed more amendments. Even before he was the author of certain rules that are constitutionally disputed, and here that sentence applies.More than one country has rules, it is more corrupt. By trying to turn the blame on some corruption into a prescription and saying it, we're going to solve everything by changing the regulation. See, this only conceals the responsibility of individuals who have actually done so and is not pursued by corruption, but rather vice versa. Where are the results of this anti-corruption work when it comes to sky-screeching cases of health corruption in banks? Where are the results? The results are in hundreds of thousands of euros, with which those who should prevent this corruption have not done so, and then have abandoned their positions – say, Mr Kos – and serve in these same banks and in these same institutions for the fantastic amounts where corruption has taken place, and they should be prevented and not when they have been in these positions. So much for that. To make things more understandable, perhaps even what is happening in the Slovenian system. I am not saying here that the government is responsible for what is happening in court. No, the government has no influence on the judiciary, Minister Klemenčič has because he is part of the plan and is first-class, the government as such has nothing. We see this also now, when the Council of Justice gives press messages against the National Assembly, it says, against the second branch of government, which sounds like a press release to some military coup in some Latin American country. If, no one can tell us anything we say, it's okay, we're the truth on our own. Now that this candidate Karakash has been rejected, who has severely violated human rights in his trial, as the Supreme Judge, the Council of Justice has acted as if he were the supreme authority in this country. Things are going on like this, still, in 1990, the first multilateral elections were held, and the new government was elected. This government inherited the closed area of Gotenica, the Kočevska River. A government commission was set up to investigate and open it, I was a member of this commission, we went there with a special police unit. We asked when Ivan Cat was last here, they said yesterday, but it was one month after the election. Not only was a bunch of crime found there, there was a parallel economy, a parallel country, an economic enterprise with millions of incomes operating beyond all standards, a farm with no idea of how many capacities it supplied daily fresh food, vegetables, eggs, meat and all the rest in communist February after Murgles in Ljubljana without any control. There were tankers using which the State Security Service smuggled cigarettes, drugs, and likely, and thus served. All this has been discovered, there have been documents full of material evidence, some have even spoken, criminal police have seized all of this, and an investigation has begun. Then Demos' government fell, and somewhere in the mid-1990s, we got the results of this criminal investigation. Two or three people from the leadership of this, I'll say, parallel communities, economics and criminal associations. One is because he's supposed to pay too much for one diary and the other because he's getting some Christmas supplements. The Court rejected this because of a minor social threat. Approximately this is the case with criminal investigations in Slovenia today. The last time you discussed this in an open session of the Investigation Commission's report on irregularities in Factor and Probank, it was a miracle that the first-degree conviction of the head of the Factor Bank took place on the same day. Amazingly, on the same day, on the first stage! You've been given ridiculous punishments, but I don't know what else for a year. I met in 2014 at the Age in the prison of a man, an entrepreneur who was imprisoned because he did not pay his bills, did not pay him and he did not pay any further and was sentenced to a district court where sentences are possible for up to three years, at 3 years and 8 months imprisonment. And all the courts have confirmed that. But this is about millions of things, and this is about stealing a bank for a year, and then it's going to go down for six months, and eventually it's not going to happen if there's anything. That's how things go around here. Minister Klemenčič received a heart attack when it was posted somewhere on POP TV that Bavčar played basketball and it was a topic, even, I will say, a performance by the President of the Government, the last time the question was sent and so on. There are plenty of these cases when people who are first-class, if they have to be convicted, do not go to jail or pardon them; from Danil Kovacic to Ivan Zidar, to Grubelič, who organized a large electoral party at the first election for Mr. Miran Porč, was later sentenced and never went to jail. It's all out of date. But I saw from the window of the cell at the Age in the yard of one morning a man who barely pulled himself up, I'll say, to the stick, there on the asphalt. It was seen at first sight that he was leaving the old man, his hands shook, and I recognized him in a few days, I met him, it was Paul Kodra, a man with Parkinson’s disease, aged 80 years old, who was put in a cell block with the worst convicts, couldn’t even get to the big ones, and they kept him there for months and months because in an interview he said that Milan Kučan had received from Elan for 400 thousand marks. And they texted him, and you'll regret that, and after the first trial, when Judge Šubic wrote a judgment for three months, and then it got obsolete, the machine started against him and didn't let him out of the clutches until 2014 and 2015. If this had not been made public, it would still be this treatment in prison to Kodra not because the guards are cruel there, but because instructions were coming from above, from the ministry run by Mr Klemenčič. [[…]] In short, corruption to the sky. And here's some numbers, some scales, bragging about some statistics to reduce judicial backlogs and so on. People will believe that the courts are working honestly and that the trust of the people on whose behalf they are being judged will increase to these courts when it is clear that the same criteria apply to all. Same criteria for everyone. When he doesn't, I'll say he's locked someone up without any evidence, or he's been chasing someone for 25 years like Paul Kodra, because some of them are angry or afraid to say anything, and others will be completely released from it. The bank hole that Mr Klemenčič promised publicly on TV – we can look at this video again – to shake the ground, Slovenia shakes when they issue their findings, is still a key problem that everyone should deal with. For, as Comrade Battelli said last week, one who can make such a bank hole unpunished can fill most of the money in the National Assembly and Government. It is true; where the numbers speak, there is no more bluffing, and here speak the numbers, Mr Klemenčič. Not 100 euros, not 200 euros, not a few thousand euros, it's millions, in the event of a billion-dollar hole. And you're part of this network that's covering it all up.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u116	Mr Klemenčič, you already listened on Friday or on Friday, colleague Eva Irgl pointed out the amounts mentioned. You've been trying to discredit us both this week by talking to each other and not being realistic and not knowing where we're pulling them from. See, written down, information on the amounts actually paid to lawyers and law firms. The amount, say, is 887 thousand 971 euros. This is the money that went to your wife's law firm. And it's written clearly on every item. One more thing, Mr. Klemenčič! While this same lady has lost virtually all judgements on the current tape, the last one obtained at the first stage, this money has been paid and this money is finally paid to taxpayers. But you said in June this year, Your Honor Klemenčič, that as a country, we are not effective at detecting and prosecuting banking crime. And if I'm finished with you: hashtag duo Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Dušan Radič has the floor to prepare Mrs Vojka Shergan and Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mr. Radich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Pushing interpellations across the banks of common sense causes the following. The most important tool of the opposition to warn about the irregularity of the work of this or that ministry was, as Marko Ferluga said earlier, a real hyperinflation, and I am adding in the style of the former jugodan. Among the citizens, there was mostly ridicule and hand-to-hand intervention, at least there in our backward Prekmurje. In addition to kranj sausage, refoški, premurski ham and movenica, "oberkrainers", we will be able to boast small interpretations like an indigenous Slovenian brand. However, I would like to advise you, instead of asking 50 questions, about the incredible number of questions that have been sent, one interpretation – the style of Mercator's glasses stickers. The talk was about the percentage of failure to fly in the right direction of our dear Slovenia. They read us pledges from the coalition treaty, showed us graphs, almost dismantled the speaker stage. Thanks to the World Wide Web for looking at the numbers. All the data is for this year. The data is almost dreamy. So, how bad is it for the Slovenians under the government of Mir Cerar? This year's data. On The Global Peace Index 2016, Slovenia ranks 10th among the safest countries in the world. Slovenia has ranked 20th in terms of prosperity on the country scale, the first place on the New Zealand ranking. We Slovenians have proven many times that we have good ideas, knowledge and the necessary experience. The Slovenian start-up company Wendotel was able to be ranked among the 15 best start-ups in the European Union this year. The organizers of the New Europe 100 project published the 100 best innovators in Central and Eastern Europe. There are six Slovenians among them. We're going to the stats. There was a lot of talk about evicted Slovenians. The real number is 14,000 913, but here's the supplement. More than 6 000 500 are Slovenes who moved from Slovenia. Math is a very exact thing, I personally love it. It was said that every Slovenian owed $30,000. So we went to look. This would be very much in Slovenia, amounting to 60 billion would be Slovenia's debt. 34 billion is a real number, that is, less than 17,000 euros per capita. What about the debt of other Europeans? Each German owes 25 000 euros, Austria 36, Italy 45 000 euros and France 42 000 euros. So much for how terrible it is in Slovenia. About the records. According to Gursa, 485 thousand plots and 21 000 600 buildings are owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Of this, the circus currently has 50,000 plots or parts of buildings owned by the Republic of Slovenia, for which the operator is not known. These data are being improved and improved. At one of the future meetings, the government will adopt an action plan for the regulation of data, which also covers these 50,000 without the controller. In the records of the Ministry of Public Administration, the circus is 50 thousand 430 plots and 9 thousand 840 buildings. These are only real estate information managed by property managers owned by the Republic of Slovenia, subject to the Real Estate Act of the State and local self-government communities. Other operators, Dars, Slovenian railways, DRSI, funds, the Society for Forests, have records sorted according to their field rules. The fact that the managers of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia have not done their work regularly and faithfully since 2012 and have improved data in the information system, we are trying to resolve this government in a way that calls on controllers to edit and clean data. The Hole was created by the adoption of the Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities, which was passed by the Law on the Public Property Fund. This happened in 2012 in October. This lost the intention of setting up a fund aimed at rational management of real property, which is now being achieved through a centralisation project. However, we also checked for the above-mentioned graphs regarding the interpolation and achievements of the Government by UKOM co-workers, and it has been confirmed that they were all carried out within the framework of regular work. In my opinion, citizens and citizens of today's interpretation do not support much. In response to all unanticipated about the speed of fulfilling various commitments, agreements, adoption of laws, paraphrasing an ally without allies We don't need interpellation, we need time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Vojka Shergan, prepare to be mag. Marko Pogačnik and Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go, Mrs. Private Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers and ministers, secretaries and secretaries and other present, colleagues and colleagues! Today's interpolation actually denotes critique, negatism, long and early prosecution, which, of course, is legitimate by the opposition, but it's very boring to listen to this all day. However, given that the Government has presented positive results, which are, in fact, evident, which are true, which are public and which neither the international community denies nor publishes, and which are also published by the UMAR, I will briefly say to all the institutions responsible. So I expected more constructive criticism, which means that it would somehow be based on more reliable data. Because also through interpolation, when people don't like the data, they simply deny it, they are described as an abuse of statistics, they are graphs, even if their data are opaque and outdated; in short, it seems like a conflict of methodologies in fact. I think it looks great, but it's abuse, and in some ways it's underestimation of people. As far as the first two years of this government are concerned, the movements are for the better, although the opposition colleague does not really want to understand when he says what we have done for people, what great movements we have made. But I think we made a big move by stabilising public finances, by improving the quality of public finances, by turning agency ratings from negatives into positives. Also the latest ratings, November 2016 compared to 2014; for example Standard & Poor's, stable outlook with A- went to A; Fitch Ratings stable outlook BBB+ went to a stable outlook A-. In short, credit ratings have improved. EU procedures, excessive macroeconomic imbalances have changed or gone. Excessive deficit procedures – they are not available. Competitiveness scales: on three scales we have moved on average for ten cities, competitiveness has improved, which means that international Slovenia is also a stable and competitive country. The gradual structural adjustment of public finances, removal of administrative burdens, simplification of business with the country – this has been repeated. For the first time, the deficit below 3 % of GDP, in 2016 2,2 is foreseen for 2017 1,3 and 2018, 1 %. We have thus achieved economic independence, in addition to political stability of course. Interest has fallen, stable economic growth means more employment. More optimism for people and for people. What's for people? New jobs are important for people, and it is important for people to be employed. This improves their material position. In short, people are satisfied if they can have adequate earnings if they can get a job, if their income improves, but this is certainly achieved when the economy is competitive when exports increase, which is crucial for growth. Corporate deleveraging, new investments, investment in R & D. The recovery of the domestic economy is, of course, shown in several indicators, in the scope of production of production activities; for the first time in eight years, it has exceeded the target level in the summer. Service activity, including construction, is being strengthened. By establishing energy recovery once these funds have been drawn up, the gradual release of all restrictions and all measures has improved. [[…]] As far as European funds are concerned. There's always a criticism of how this government has done nothing. The situation at the beginning of the Government's mandate in the area of fund-raising was as follows. Slovenia was among the worst in drawing European funds, 19th among 28. Slovenia did not have the prepared programming documents, the partnership agreement, the operational programme, the scale of this. The former governments have done nothing in this area. Slovenia had no drawdown system set for 2014-2020, Slovenia did not have the regulatory framework necessary to draw on the new perspective. All this has been established by our government, the Government Development Service. In two years in the field of European cohesion policy, this approach has allowed us to report today that Slovenia has risen from 19th to 4th since the success of European cohesion policy funds. Slovenia was among the 8 Member States that managed to absorb all possible European cohesion policy funds at the end of last year, Slovenia reached a net budget surplus of 633 million in 2014, Slovenia reached a net budget surplus of EUR 446 million in 2015 compared to budget payments. If we count here another 5% of the retained funds that we will receive from 2018, this figure is even 651 million, which is the most since we have been in the European Union. I would like to stress, then, that 29 million donors from the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area, the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, are successful under the auspices of the States Parties to the Agreement implementing the Slovenian-Swiss Programme for the Reduction of Economic and Social Differences. In addition, it is criticised that Slovenia has not joined the EFSI Fund. I would like to point out, however, that Slovenia was unable to apply, because other countries that have already acquired funds here had prepared projects, Slovenia did not have them because these programmes need to be prepared for years. For example, Slovakia, which will build the Bratislava Oblast, has been preparing for three years with a pumping programme or application to the CEF and EFSI Funds. This is because it is misleading to the public that we are not successful at drawing this. Once again, I would like to point out that we are good and that what is not good will be improved and that what we are good at will be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Mr Ivan Hršak and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for the floor. After this speech, I will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Dear Minister of Finance, where do all the billions that SMC's accounted for are lost? Where all these billions are lost, the best use of European funds – we are the best everywhere! Everywhere. We're up on all the scales. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask you a question. Where are these billions? Now we've really heard about billions. Think! I am sure that if 50% of what the colleague said is true, then I expect that in 2017 the average pension will be 1,000 euros, as Desus proposed just a little while ago, because that is irresponsible. That's why I'm asking. Where are the billions now listed here? And look, I'm sure this interpolation is more than justifiable. More than justifiable, because the fact is, this government of Mira Cerar and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus continues the policy of borrowing and burdening especially the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that this government has turned the temporary measure of value-added tax into a permanent measure and raised both tax rates. Why, if you are dipping honey and milk in Slovenia? Why, I'm asking. Why did you raise the VAT? Where do these billions go, the esteemed minister and the well-respected ministerial assembly? Perhaps the Prime Minister will be able to answer that question. Where do these billions get lost, especially when Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party talk about such success? Dear Minister, I was shocked and disappointed at your statement of acceptance of the budget, on the one hand. You have answered the explicit question of the President of the National Assembly in all contracts and all matters necessary for the adoption of the budget for 2017 and 2018 explicitly to the question of the President of the National Assembly – or to the question of whether the budget is harmonised – Madam Minister, you have answered that the budget is harmonised. Now I'm asking you why you're negotiating with the unions. Why, then, are these measures necessary if you said at the meeting of the National Assembly that the budget is harmonised? Either you're lying or you're deceiving. I want that answer. Why did you say that the budget was harmonised? But today you said again that negotiations with trade unions are needed. Indeed, Slovenia has an undecided government, an undecided Prime Minister. It's shocking, we're not taking action in the government tomorrow regarding the union arrangements. When will you be? 31. 12. 2016 is close, Madam Minister, and until then a measure must be taken. If we are talking about the management of state property, look, I am sure that there has not been such catastrophic management of state property as under this government and under this coalition in the history of Slovenia. Key institutions for the management of state assets have temporary leadership, both DUTB and SDH, and other institutions that are important for state-owned assets. One of your key objectives and forecasts at the beginning of 2016 was to manage state assets more transparently and to make the management of state assets more profitable. See, Madam Minister, at the end of last week, we were able to read that the Triglav Insurance Company, or after the new one we can also call the Desus Fortress, created a 30% lower profit than in the same period last year. And this is now a successful management of state property for you! Our biggest insurance company for 30% less return! See, Madam Minister, what else did the Government write in February to get a budget of EUR 323 million from the operations of the DUTB. 323 million euros. It's a government document from February. What happened now? The sorcery games and taxpayers will have to recapitalise DUTB with EUR 50 million. Recapitalise with 50m euros, but you said the DUB would put EUR 323 million in the budget. This is a government document when you told us what the goals of this government were in 2016. However, recapitalisation will be necessary because the Ministry of Finance and the government and the coalition have decided to join the Factor and Probank to the DUMB. I would like to know, Madam Secretary, whether this is the final recapitalisation for this connection. How much more tax money will it take to rehabilitate banks? If this is a success for you to destroy the Economic and Social Council, then we know where this government's policy is going. Employers have resigned from the Economic and Social Council – nothing has happened! Slovenian media has not written about this with a single letter. And you're fine. Does one of the government's teams now negotiate with employers to return to the Economic and Social Council? I'm sure you don't. See, a respected coalition and a respected government, compared to the 2013 final account in 2017 and 2018, you have 1.5 billion more revenue. And what did you do with it? You're saying you're lowering the job in public administration, and you're blurring it out. Public sector, public administration. The budget users for 2018, under the draft budget drawn up by this Government, have an increase of 600 million salaries compared to 2013. An increase of 600 million euros in wages! Budget users. Compared to the end of 2013. Now tell me whether the wages have increased or whether you have increased the employees. What did you do with that? And look, I find it hard to believe or buy the words you are selling, and I am sure that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do not believe those words and promises anymore. You explain how the budget is development-oriented, how the coalition is development-oriented and where you will bring Slovenia. Then top news three days in Slovenian media and also on the website of our largest SMC Group that the President of the National Assembly opened an ATM in one small place in Slovenia. That was top news for three days! You sent the President of the National Assembly to open the ATM?Oh, my God! Your Honor, I have here a picture, an ATM, the first one in America, in 1969. Black-and-white pictures are still, black-and-white pictures from the opening of the first ATM. And you're proposing this as the biggest development product and you're talking about the fourth industrial revolution. The Fourth Industrial Revolution! And send the President of the National Assembly to the opening of the ATM! Here are black and white pictures, color pictures I couldn't get, September 2, 1969 in America. First ATM. And that is now the greatest success of this government. Do you know where you'll take Slovenia if this path continues? In the black and white world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u123	Before that, Mrs. Eva Irgle protested that the two of them were talking. All right, please. [[…]] She asked the Mag for a word. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u124	Such a challenge really is difficult to resist. I have to admit. It's a budget. The business question, Mr Member, concerns whether the budget is, or whether the budgetary documents are, the budget itself because of the decisions taken at the meeting, whether it is internally coordinated or not. And they weren't. And that was followed by my statement. The budget is coordinated. However, as in 2012, not all measures allowing the implementation of the budget have been taken, but have now been submitted to the National Assembly. However, in 2012 they were not budgeted in 2013. We will discuss the recapitalisation of DUTB when, if it does, it materializes. As far as asset management is concerned. This year's average return rose compared to previous years. And for the first time in the history of this country, we have a strategy with clearly measurable objectives that will allow us to assess, on the basis of business reports for 2016, how they worked or did not work. As far as the cost of work is concerned. I do not know what information you have, but the official data for 2013 shows that 915 million were paid for salaries and other labour costs from the public servants budget, not for employees in public institutions. For 2018, the cost of billions and 15. So, 100 million more and not 600 million more.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u125	It's a replica. Here you go, Master Marko Pogačnik. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u126	Dear President! I expect you to alert the Minister of Finance to operate with the same vats and to have the same methodology. Dear Minister, I am not talking about the public sector, I am talking about budgetary users. Then don't fool me into thinking it's only 100. Tell me then, compared to 2013, how much more is paid for budget users? Is that about 600 million or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The Minister, of course, heard your comment. Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor. Prepare Master Dušan Verbič and then Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Mr. Hršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u128	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Council of Ministers, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! I myself will focus on the general debate on interpolation, because many things have already been said by colleagues and colleagues before me that I will not repeat myself. In my opinion, the basic question is why today is interpolation and not a constructive confidant. Interpellation without the proposed conclusions, we have already come to the conclusion that you have suggested that the government should respect its coalition agreement. Of course, this is our coalition agreement, we care about it, so your concern about it is over and we will do everything we can to achieve it as much as possible – because we have about a year and a half to do it. He was mentioned several times, on your part, also in the Fiscal world. You've expressed your concern about why he's not here. In 2012, your position on the fiscal world was that it was unnecessary; it was unnecessary because it did not decide anything. It has only an advisory role and, of course, its associated costs. I also have to say something about these famous thousands of euros, because John Janša also today mentioned that Karl Erjavec once promised them, but we know that this is not true. He then said that pensioners would have earned a thousand Euros of pension, given that 40 years or some even more than 40 years had paid, that is to say that the prescribed pension application was required, and of course they would have earned a decent pension that would have allowed a decent life. Of course, these pensions are not like that today, they are actually too low for a retirement pension, and they do not allow a decent life. Of course, Desus’s goal is to work in this direction to establish a minimum pension, which will then make it possible for those pensioners to live a decent life in the future. However, Desus in this government has achieved that pensions are coordinated as regularly as possible. This was not the case in the past, and that was why these pensions continued to fall. The point is that we have broken this downward trend and now this trend is going up. It is true that pensions are coordinated in accordance with the required method of coordination, and of course, given the economic growth and these increases are not so great, but given the economic growth we have, and on the forecast of economic growth even in the coming years, I believe that these increases will also be higher. I must also say something about the future pension reform. It is true that this will be needed somewhere after 2020, 2023, of course, now this 2013 pension box has positive effects, so far it is not necessary, but we have time, of course we have to prepare, that is to say, a new future pension reform. However, this future pension reform will not be able to allow for the further reduction of pensions, since it was, of course, prescribed that each year pensions were reduced by this amount. Given that we have economic growth and, as I have already said, it is forecasting in the future, these pensions will also have to go up accordingly. But it will probably be necessary, given that the age of people is increasing, to work a little longer. That's almost certain. The SDS often mentions Desus, somehow you are very worried about us, of course, because Desus is stronger after each election, is stronger, and we are also working in this direction, that we will also achieve even better results in future parliamentary elections and that if voters give us such support that Desus can decide on the amount of pensions, then believe that these pensions will also be adequately higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dusan Verbič, then it's the Minister of the Interior and Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Before I start my debate, which I promise won't be very long, it may be a bit controversial, but I still have to give a few words to the introductory speaker of this meeting of the assembly today, what has disturbed me. I think it's right to say it, and I'm sorry that he's not there, but I hope he hears me somehow, but if there's a chance, he'll be happy to answer it. It bothered me when he put it this way: that I am or are in this National Assembly because it was those who caused the 5-billion-dollar hole. Your Honor, I resist this, and I can say publicly that Member Dusan Verbič has nothing to do with this, and that is why I am not in the National Assembly. I would also like to touch on the indication that the country is paying the cost of a billion euro interest. Let's be objective here. When the government of Mira Cerar took over the leadership of the country two years ago, the cost was between €1.3 billion and €1.4 billion – a payment for interest only. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect in such matters that it is then very decisive to say who caused such a state's indebtedness. Because the SMC party had nothing to do with this, except that you occasionally confuse us with “new faces” or “there is virtually nothing with you”. Even in this part, to conclude, the fact is that we are fulfilling some of the obligations we have given not only to citizens but also to European institutions, and in this period the country's indebtedness is declining. Now, I am moving to an area that I believe is right, which has recently been very topical, namely, the area under II Finance, the specific management of state property, staffing and the like. It is very clear to say this, and I think that several times, when we are at the Plenary Assembly as well as at the parental committees, we will have to repeat this and repeat it, something may also be heard on the opposition's side. Before 2015, the management of the country's capital investments took place without any plans, rather than strategies. This government adopted a strategy in 2015. I immediately agree that we can open a debate on this strategy and talk about why these lists are so, why they are and so on. It is essential that this strategy is a fundamental act on the basis of which the Government also adopted an annual management plan in December 2015, representing the Slovenian State Holding, which was set up by the largest opposition party. I can say that it is right to set up this company, and this company has this annual plan as a basis or tool for further management. The logical continuation of such government activities in this area – we can talk about the performance of companies on the basis of objective criteria and indicators. I also agree here that this may be the beginning. It is not optimal, but we have a tangible tool that will enable us in the National Assembly and the Government in the second half of the following year, according to 2017, on the basis of the revised annual reports, to identify for the first time the objective operation of state-owned companies, read the management of state-owned enterprises. So much for a brief introduction. As far as Part II is concerned, Finance. I think that the interpellations have not done what I would expect in some context, but I think that I am not the only one, I also suppose, citizens, taxpayers, because it is not right for this interpretation in this part that I quoted earlier to the current government to make clear all the evil that has been done all these years. If I'm specific, it's been said many times today, a bank hole, and in this case, Probank and Factor Bank are the subject of interpolation. Let's get some clean wine. Here I also expect to be very precise and concrete in such discussions, as the current government appears in the case of Probanka and Factor Bank in the final stage of this process. My modest thinking means that the current government is a sanator of previous states, conclusions that have also been processed from a procedural point of view in certain institutions, but the government was not led by Mira Cerar at the time. What I wanted to point out. I do not understand the motion for today's interpretation, why the gravity of this case does not point to the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2013, which is also the current Member, because the then government has adopted something very interesting and I can safely say harmful for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Probanka and Factor Bank were privately owned until 2013. Because of their poor conduct, and I will not debate the presentation by the esteemed President of the parliamentary banking commission, which we had a few days ago, of a presentation and the like, that this has happened at all. And not only the general conclusion; the notorious inevitable fact is that the bank fell or failed because of the loans they were borrowing, they probably knew in advance that it would not return, but the government in 2013 supported these two banks. What did that mean? It meant that all the liabilities from these two banks were passed on to taxpayers. For this reason, I ask, esteemed applicants, why don't you state in such documents what I personally think is most important. Cause. The one who did this. No, we're talking today, or we're going to continue to talk about all the evil in some sort of rescue process on the side, if that's what I'm saying, sanator. I also agree with the debate or debate that would go between policy and expertise, why the controlled liquidation. However, this decision was not taken by the Government of Mir Cerar. This decision, we know and you know very well who made it. Neither were we when numerous amounts of state deposits were invested in these two banks. What I resent in this case is there is no mention that in addition to these two banks, Abank was privatised in 2013. So I don't touch subordinate bonds. And most likely, not only the government of Mira Cerar, but also us as Members, all of this awaits. In the end, I can tell you that we're going to show up with the paramedics. And how we're going to justify this kind of spending of the country on some of these things not so long ago. Because that's what we're talking about, and that's a fact that's been done not so long ago when it comes to bank holes, since 2008 and so on. That was in 2013. For this reason, I believe that we should be objective in these matters. Once again, it is true that the process can now either be connected or taken over politically and professionally, whether this is optimal. The government's response to this part of the interpolation is clear. The fact is that this procedure was carried out under the applicable Company Act. So far there is no answer that this is not in accordance with the law or that the government has done something that is not in conformity with the legislation in force. I agree, however, that in such matters discussions can be opened, whether this is one of the options that has been implemented, indeed, in the interests of taxpayers. Because we just don't want to put things on paper or in public anymore, because for Probank and Factor Bank, taxpayers have paid, say, write, at least EUR 445 million. Let us add more than a billion Euros of guarantees to this. Also, the parliamentary banking commission on these guarantees – now I have not seen anything in these days. That is said, even amounts that are informally known are questionable if that is all. Therefore, I believe that when we talk about these matters, let us be objective and repeat, let us not give all the problems and problems to the one who is in power right now and who is automatically also responsible for the weaknesses. If I conclude this part, once again, the fact is that the Probank and Factor Bank case does not involve the Government or the National Assembly if private banks are not privatised. I agree with those who say that such a procedure had to be carried out in such a way as to save the country's deposits. But, Your Honor, the state's deposits give some high-level office to an institution. Finally, in this case, we can peacefully conclude that the bill has been made available to taxpayers. Therefore, once again, this government has virtually no connection with the specific issue, except for this part of the conclusion, the rehabilitation, the sanator, which allows for the possibility that there may also be a different way of taking over or connecting. Just a few more words in this part, where you also mention the Law on Measures for Bank Stability – a novel that was adopted a year ago, that in the current composition, the government proposed, the coalition adopted a provision that allows redemption or any kind of fraud to those who caused the bank hole. I must admit that we also strongly oppose this work. However, because of this, I am very clear to those Members who were present at the reception of this novel, it has been said that this novelty is being adopted primarily for one fundamental reason, and this fundamental reason is that the Company for the Management of Claims of Banks, which in some ways has received additional powers, has been extended not only to deal with the sale of claims, but also to some new process model, which in some way means that companies that are in a poor financial situation for such or other reasons, including because of poor banking practices, should be transferred and claims or equity shares at the DUTB, should really be looked at and given, if they have a good part of the programme, that is, business processes that are of interest to the market – to enable them to be restructured as well. That was the primary purpose. And then, except from the opposition's point of view, that this is a questionable question as to whether this is really the purpose, we stood firm on the side of the coalition. To this end, Article 13 of the Banks Credit Stability Regulation Act has been adopted to prevent potential persons who have caused, or have been the bearer of, poor claims against, such transactions. I wouldn't do it about time. He once again read article 13, but this article is very clear. Which persons cannot obtain this claim or share and this applies both to natural persons and to legal persons. However, I recommend that this Article 13 as well as the whole amendment to the Law on Credit Stability Management of Banks should also be considered. Because there was also some talk about nothing being done in the area of landscapes and the like. I wouldn't be exposing this subject right now, but I still have to say. Friday, this week, is an urgent meeting of the Committee on the Interior, a local self-government, where the topical strategy for the development of local self-government is. It is true that this meeting is on the proposal of the SDS Group, and I think there will be a very nice opportunity to see and also to look at what has been done or what the strategy is. Let me get this straight. Public administration, public sector. I still have to say this, and then I'm done. What's written [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'd be happy to discuss it for your time. What is written down is XII, the Public Administration, and the sentence reads: “The government of Dr. Mira Cerar has reached the bottom with the government.” I think the proposaler was wrong or it's a joke. Why am I saying this? There's only one thing that should never have happened that was written down. In the area of administrative and internal matters, the issuance of travel documents or identity cards, I believe that we are most likely to be in the lead in the entire European Union system in the Republic of Slovenia. According to my information, the southern part of Germany, Bavaria, envys our approach to such a solution. What does that mean? That our citizens can almost exceptionally obtain such documents in one day. You could still list it. That's why I think this sentence is most likely mistaken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister for the Interior, has the floor. Get Dr. Jasna Murgel and Dr. Vinko Gorenak ready. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. notably respectable interpelling agents. I think it is time that I also address myself on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. one of the main national resources for the operation of this country, which includes the police as one of the most important national authorities. Most of the interpretations in the work relating to the Ministry of the Interior relate to the management of the migration crisis. This is a surprising situation, but it is not a surprise. However, I can say, given all the debates and in any case, that the opposition also acknowledges one fact, namely that Slovenia has managed to master the migration flow and, most importantly, without the use of police force, when nearly half a million people crossed our territory. In fact, with superhuman efforts, Slovenian police have fulfilled one of their core tasks, namely control of the state border. And this, honourable Members, is also the results of this government. Security in this state is not self-evident. Security is provided by the police as a body within the Ministry of the Interior, which, of course, we exercise control over, and we also provide the conditions for its work. Even during migration, security has not been distorted, and in fact, we have proven to the whole of Europe that we are a credible and credible country in the fact that Slovenia has never conducted an open door policy, will never lead it, and we have not caused the wave of migration, we have only faced the reality of mass migration. I think we have also proved that the Ministry of the Interior is a body that has the courage, that we are bold and that we do not give up in our positions despite our smallness. Slovenia's efforts were those that led to the closure of the Western Balkan route in Macedonia, despite being criticised by some, for the migrants of the target country, but we have taken a firm stand on the side of our national interests and we will do so also in the future if we assess that the Brussels formula does not correspond to the benefits of our country. I myself somehow or also rejected some proposal from the European Commission based on the fact that Slovenia is a regulated country, that things work for us, that Slovenia is a causal example of managing migration. Our basic course has been and remains that Slovenia must not become the victims of the European Union's missed migration policies, and we will also resist this by all means, of course, with those we will have at our disposal. It is also a personal pleasure to see positive developments in the state of the Slovenian police. Because for years and years, financial, material, humane genocide has been carried out over the police. I believe that there is also one major success to be highlighted during this government's term of office, and this has not been clear to me as Minister of the Interior that I should have suspected the police being abused for political purposes. The police remained intact as regards its operational autonomy, its apolitical nature, and also in all rebuttal investigations, including those reported in the media, I took a firm stand that the mood swings of the policy had nothing to do here. They are not relevant when the police act by law, criminal procedure and when they perform their work professionally and professionally under the watchful eye of the prosecution and the courts. The law must be the same for everyone, and I think it must be the same for the future. Of course, we are trying to change the Criminal Procedure Act too, but we will oppose all solutions that will constitute an additional administrative burden for the police, because I do not think that the police can solve the deficit of the other authorities in the so-called justice chain from the pre-trial procedure to the conviction. Today there was also talk about banking crime. This area is being investigated by the police as a matter of priority. As a result, by 28 October 2016 the police had recorded 245 criminal offences, with a recorded damage of more than EUR 1000 million, i.e. a billion. Of these, 187 offences have been completed, of which 116 with criminal charges and 71 with a report under Article 148, paragraph 10, of the CAP, the damage found on the basis of 342 million criminal complaints has been found and 58 outstanding criminal suspects have been dealt with by the police, where proceedings are still ongoing. But I have to point out another dimension; that is, since I have abolished this function, I see that there is another phenomenon that we have to say a few words about, because it is very important. Indeed, in recent times ideological mistrust in police work has become somewhat very modern, as if the foundations of democracy were not trust in the basic state institutions. This discourse does not contribute to the effectiveness of the work of the Slovenian police, because it does not only matter how many police officers we have, what kind of equipment they have, what kind of budget, it is important that people recognize the right to ensure social order through their repressive authorities. Therefore, it is also very important how we talk about the Slovenian police and we must also give them a certain degree of respect. Of course, any system can experience a deviation, it can experience illegality, it can lead to abuse of the position, but it does not only apply to the police, it also applies to other systems, although I believe that tolerance for these deviations in the police must be smaller than anywhere else. All control mechanisms must respond immediately and have responded. Since I also want maximum quality police supervision, I also proposed to the Ministry of Justice at the beginning of my mandate what was also suggested in the coalition treaty we are discussing today. Let us, however, set up an effective and European comparable system for investigating police offences. Here I think that Member Gorenak will also agree with me that the current system is not only harmful, it is unjust, but it also does moral damage to the police. The police are currently investigating a special section of the Special Prosecutor's Office, which does not report its findings to either the Ministry's or the police's management, but at the same time this department does not have the legal capacity to direct and control the police, and therefore cannot fully respond to the police's deviations. If this authority were to be incorporated into the existing system competence of the Ministry's control and direction, the control of the police would be optimally designed and would be even more effective in terms of direction and also rapid reactions to all detectable anomalies. Of course, it is necessary to know that the attitude of each government towards human security is reflected in one essential component, which we have also discussed today, namely the police budget or the police budget. We can rightly boast of this because we have done what we have done to governments and ministers almost ten years before us. This was necessary because the police provide security on a daily basis and do not actually have competition. I firmly believe that investing in security must be, so to speak, a constant and I do not intend to give up. We also talked about everything that was provided for the police. I will not repeat this – a thousand vehicles in three years, as well as 20 million for personal protective equipment, police weapons, six thousand police officers will get new police uniforms, almost four thousand protective vests and so on. We're hiring, we've turned trends up. In fact, the strike agreement is also the basis for an appropriate evaluation – I will immediately end – of the salaries of the police. The fact is that all of this confirms that we recognize the value of the police, and so it will be in the future. Of course, the police must also have the right legislation. Yesterday you adopted the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police and the Law on the Control of the State Border, which are in the process and with these three laws will provide for even greater legal and personal security. For the end of a few more sentences, considering I think it's important. As we are aware of the importance of security and of all the risks that are currently present, that is, the risks arising from possible mass uncontrolled migration, we are also proposing and insisting on amendments to the Foreigners Act. Of course, if all the envisaged mechanisms and arrangements were to be cancelled, Slovenia would be under extreme pressure from irregular migration, which could endanger internal security. It should also be pointed out here that in this entire discourse, despite the Foreign Act, there is another component that is not sufficiently discussed. This law also entails the establishment of a Migration Office, which will also help to better manage the possible deterioration of the migration crisis. It is a fact that we must ensure all measures to ensure security, in order to ensure stability, especially when we are a country that protects the external Schengen border and in some ways reflects our sovereignty. So honourable Members, honourable Members, the first and most important task of the Ministry of the Interior is security, and I appreciate that we are fulfilling this task in a responsible and successful manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u134	In fact, migration is a subject with which the Government can highly commend itself. In less than one year, it has allowed more than 500,000 illegal migrants across the Schengen border. Skorja has committed violations of domestic Slovenian regulations in the State Border Control Act and the Schengen Agreement. Almost every one of these! A few hundred thousand crimes committed in government for this wave of illegal migration that has passed across Slovenia defending the Schengen border. The Schengen border has fallen in two countries in the Schengen area, Greece and Slovenia, and today the whole of Europe knows this. In the future, this will have an even greater impact. At least 6 terrorists who later caused loss of life and destruction throughout Europe went through Slovenia in this wave. At least six have been discovered so far. All of this could have been prevented. Hungary announced a border closure three months before it did. Slovenia should have done the same at the time. This fence you're setting up now, and after there was no one else, you should have built it then. The same cost would be, the same problems, only Europe and we would have fewer problems today. The arguments you cited at the time against the fence, when we proposed it, are arguments that are the same and applied even as those arguments were when you set up the fence. Nothing has changed, only the danger has passed. By then setting up this fence, you have shown only implicitly that you have done wrong before, panicking, unorganized, unprepared. Those first days were chaos, people were afraid in Slovenia. Yes, exclusively to the police and partly to the soldiers who helped, we are to thank that there were no consequences of this chaos any more. But the work of these consequences is facing us today. Today there is virtually no mayor in the Slovenian municipality who would not receive letters from the Minister from Mr Šefić concerning the migrant centres. One of the biggest activities of the Slovenian government at this time is not to ensure social improvement, the social status of the pensioners of young people and so on, but to find new migrant centres; from Ilirska Bistrica, to Lendava, Črnomlja, Brežić and so on. You are not working these migrant centers, nor are you looking for an anticipated new wave along the Balkan route, which will no longer exist because the second year of elections is in France, Germany and so on, and this story is over. Also because of the measures taken at this time at European level. You are looking for these new migrant centres because of the migrants you illegally let across the border, then they go to Germany and other European countries, and now they are returning them. The so-called quotas, the quotas of the European Commission were a solution at the beginning of this crisis, when the whole of Europe was unprepared and when the number of illegal migrants was limited. At that time, this solidarity was on the spot, and we, too, supported this solution, if Europe says, this is what, from now on, we are strictly controlling borders, there will be no illegal entry. But this has not happened, many European countries have rejected these quotas, are not accepting these migrants back, and Slovenia has rejected them. Here the Slovenian government has fully knelt down, at home strong words, hitting the table and so on, and in Brussels: Yes, of course, we will, what, just so that no one would recall this error that was made in 2015. [[…]] You're the hostages of that mistake. Someone under the picture of Mr Cerar from one of the meetings in Brussels wrote: In Brussels saliva, home rabies. It says, there: Of course, quotas – no problem, anything! Slovenians will be happy to pay 3 times more for one illegal migrant than we will pay for one pensioner. You think people like to pay for it, but that's what they say. And now it is pressured on Slovenian municipalities to provide space or pass through municipalities, past people, past municipal councils, through city councils to conclude contracts for tax money with owners of premises, and it is actually preparing a new migrant centre in every slightly larger Slovenian municipality. This is one of the main activities of this government at this time. See, as many other countries in Europe have done, Slovenia should say: Enough. No more quotas. Let illegal migrants be taken care of by those who have been invited, who have caused the collapse of this system at the beginning, and let the Slovenian government pronounce itself, as it knows and knows about its own responsibility for the fall of the Schengen border. If anyone claims responsibility, your heads are on the floor. It's also a criminal responsibility. Another major problem we have with the department, with the work of the Ministry of the Interior, is the secret rules. The Slovenian Criminal Police has the same structure in its composition as the former State Security Service, probably the employed people who used to work in the Udba or its co-workers, and has rules similar to that of stalking, listening, gathering information, hacking into electronic accounts and e-mails, recruiting employees and so on, and these regulations are not only secret, the Ministry has rejected by letter the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, which is the only body in control of certain activities of these services. This part of the criminal police to recruit co-workers who then hacked into electronic accounts even here in the National Assembly does not need any court decision. There's no judicial supervision here. Nevertheless, we have received a letter from the Ministry that these acts will not be given to the supervisory commission. How can the Supervisory Board control the work, I'll say, these new Judgments, if we don't know the rules by which this structure works? After a unanimous vote by the coalition members who were present — from SMC and Desus — was set to avoid the decision-making process, we received part of those acts. But look out! There's almost half of the things in one rule that have been deleted, painted with a correx, they're not there. That's how you imagine parliamentary supervision! In the Constitution, we have paragraph 154, which was given there precisely because of the poor experience with secret official letters and with the Udba, where it says that every regulation must be published before it enters into force, including the act of law. After this Police Act, someone has given that some things are internal and now under this inertness are hidden secret rules, which by content are the same as they were at the time of the former Judgment. Here comes various information, including that this part of the criminal police is also financed from this activity. Not from the budget, but from this activity, there is some economic activity there, obviously, as it was in the Kočevska River and in Gotenica at a time before democratic changes. So, Minister, if you think that parliamentary supervision of the work of this part of the criminal police will be able to take place, you will first reject the extradition of these rules, and part of the members of the government coalition will vote for it to be handed over and give something and hide the other. See, in 1989, when there was a former regime when the congregation commission existed, it forced these acts from the time of the resurrection. But we are in 2016, Slovenia is in the European Union, in NATO – and what is happening? The rejection of parliamentary control is not something that is in itself conditional in each country. This will be a scandal that will cross our borders absolutely and obviously have to be some difficult things under the carpet, not just hacking into citizens' electronic accounts without a court order to avoid control. [[…]] You also said that democracy is the foundation of trust in state institutions. It is the opposite, you know; the basis of democracy is that state institutions respect citizens. It's the foundation of democracy. They're not citizens because of the institution, they're institutions because of the citizens. I recommend that you read the Constitution, too, sitting in the government, obviously let it go. And the foundation of parliamentary democracy is also the lack of confidence in the work of repressive institutions, since there has been a parliamentary democracy, there is also some kind of parliamentary control over this, which is why we have these commissions. However, if you have such a view that citizens must trust repressive institutions, then this is the view that existed there until 1989 on Slovenian territory and which Tomaž Ertl defended before you. He used the same words, you have to trust the State Security Service when he's spying on you, especially. I don't even know what ideological mistrust is supposed to mean, even that's the word before 1990 that was used. Now that this problem has opened, someone who obviously knows the situation in the police or at all: The networks operating in the Slovenian police, especially the criminal service, are not necessarily political, they are also completely private. We have a case where the husband is a criminal police officer, the wife is a judge at the District Court in Ljubljana, the daughter is a prosecutor, her husband is employed in Owl, her son is in KPK and her son-in-law is in NLB. Look, without any kind of political omen, I'm untrustworthy of such a relationship, I'd hardly call it ideological. Maybe this brother-in-law who's working in the NLB is in some kind of lawsuit and now what? He'll be investigated by his father-in-law, tried by his mother-in-law if there's a trial, examined by his daughter, and ruled by a son in the KPK. It's full of it. Perhaps there is also some kind of bankruptcy manager. Usually, the circle is closed. None of the institutions are involved in this! This internal control you have is probably so that someone in this family circle is still in internal control. The key problem we have right now with your department is the rejection of parliamentary control, the arrogant rejection of parliamentary control. I suspect that part of the criminal police is also dealing with, I will say, illegal economic activity beyond the budget. It's getting more and more true. Of course, as a country, we have a big problem with your attempt to set up migrant centres across Slovenia, because you will accept through quotas those that you illegally crossed the border last year. At least this last one has to end. Go to Brussels, say, "That's enough! If most other countries, including Sweden, have said enough, it is not just the Visegrajska Group, Slovenia must also say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to inform you that the drafter of the interpretation has also proposed a decision for today's meeting on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has been published on the e-club. She asked the Mag for a word. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I will only respond briefly to the part on migration. Perhaps, in the introductions, I will just say about this latest implementation of Mr Janša. You also note that you have received the Ministry's response to what you are saying about these documents. You have also received documents, of course, in the work relating to the competence of the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, that is to say in the work relating to covert investigative measures. We know that criminal intelligence is not a covert investigation measure. Our response certainly confirms that we are not opposed to control, but, of course, these things must also respect the principle of legality, which is also enshrined in this constitution that we are talking about today, and I think this is also very important because it also gives legitimacy to this commission of yours, which is extremely important. This is parliamentary political control, i.e. whether it is done within the framework of the Constitution and the law. Of course, one very important fact must also be taken into account: the dimension of policy and police operational work should be demarcated. That's the direction we're going to take in the future. As far as migration is concerned, I will repeat once again, as we have already said or found out today, as well as in all past discussions, that Slovenia has never conducted an open-door policy, nor will it. We are faced with this fact. You also said today that those who invited them were not Slovenia. These people just came to our border, and they're going to come to the future, because this is about people anyway. There's no moving the boxes or any objects without life. People are coming, and that's what the countries are responding to. We know why the Western Balkan route opened, we know whose invitation it was, and you're mentioning it. Austria wanted to see these people, too. To this end, she also established entry points at her border where she accepted these people, with the same criteria for humanitarian entry as Slovenia had. We also know that this will not happen again, so we also propose amending the Aliens Act to enable us to manage mass illegal immigration more easily. If you're still in these positions after everything she's said and everything that's been done, I'm wondering, what should Slovenia do then, according to you? So, is Slovenia supposed to stop half a million people at its border? This means that Slovenia should build a migrant camp at the border and actually retain these people there, even as you say they were invited to do. And then the whole of Europe would observe incidents at the border between the two EU Member States. I don't think that's the interest of Slovenia. Slovenia has carried out Schengen all the time, and it has adapted it to the effects of mass migration following a decision adopted by this National Assembly when we were told that migration flows must be dealt with humanitarianally. In short, this National Assembly did not order the police to use the police force at the border. Why didn't that happen? This National Assembly, when it ordered the Government to consider migration flows humanitarianally, also acted in accordance with the Schengen Code. This is, in fact, Article 5 of the Schengen Code, which lays down the criteria for humanitarian entry. So the matter is perfectly clear, it's clean, there's absolutely nothing illegal here. You also received our reply in response to the interpolation, where we also summarized how the prosecution responded to the criminal complaint filed against the entire government. They also found that there were no signs of crime. So we really propose to stop this Schengen demagogy because it has absolutely no basis either in law or in reality. And even this all-powerful, sovereign Hungarian fence. Hungary had and also has several illegal border crossings such as Slovenia has, so I do not think this argument holds up. Also in all the discussions on the mini-shanging in connection with Hungary, which you give as an example of a successful country, a Schengen-protecting country. Hungary has also fallen out of the mini shangna, so I do not think these arguments will hold up, and I propose that we are really talking constructively about migration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u138	It's very hard to listen to. Look, we've told you in time what needs to be done. There was no need to stop 500 thousand migrants at the border. First, because not all of them came at once, secondly, if you, when Hungary announced the border closure, did the same thing, none of this wave would have been in Slovenia, because the same measure would have been taken by Croatia and then Serbia and the thing would have stopped at the Macedonian border, where it would have stopped later. Your Prime Minister then sold this idea as his own to Europe to consolidate the Macedonian border. Twice, it's hard to listen to these things. And yes, if part of the illegal wave reaches our border, we should stop it, just like the others. And yes, it's about people. It's totally about people. Only with the same means that are now being used here as one illegal migrant could we help with the right organisation, even Slovenia itself, closer to Syria – in Lebanon, Turkey, anywhere – to ten people. If it's about people, do it. They suffer significantly more down than those who came here. We saw what the structure was like. So don't get carried away, please. And don't tell me there was no violation of the law. At the same time, when you dropped them hundreds of thousands illegally across the border, someone from Kosovo, for example, who came to Slovenia after business, had to ask for a Schengen visa, pay 100 euros, wait three weeks, and you refused it. I know specific cases. If I stood in line, I'd go across the border and amen. He said a name he'd forget in five minutes. It didn't matter anyway, just that it worked. What you said about these secret rules is further worrying. What kind of control is this if you determine what the commission can see? How do we know that this is something that is not under the authority of the commission? You sent some rulebook that is just like a guide to the KPK when Mr Klemenčič led it. Each fifth document was crossed out by a correction when we came to look at the trial file because they were afraid that illegal activity would be discovered. What, though, is such a rule that the Monitoring Commission, which is bound to remain silent, should not see? What's in there? Are those officials who manage this document there more empowered than those elected by the people and then the commission elected by the National Assembly on the basis of law and constitutional provisions? With exactly the same words that you are managing, the head of RSNZ and UDBE in 1989 defended the position of the then communist government not to give those rules to the Udba and had to give them afterwards. The Lovra Sturm and the others who were on this committee have recovered the answers to questions even in the former system, and you think you're going to bring things back to 1956, or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u139	It's a replica. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u140	Minister, I didn't want to get caught up in the migrant crisis in my debate before, because I'm sure there'll be more to say, but your adventure cost us 123 million. 123 million! Now calculate what this would mean for citizens, 300,000 citizens living on the edge or below the poverty threshold. This adventure also cost us because we weren't ready for it. All you can remember is the officers who were on duty there for 24 hours without a hot meal. And one more thing, not to talk about marriage, you know you have the biggest issues in the coalition. So don't tell the general public what you're up to, let's go home and make a deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here you go, Dr. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much, very good-bye to everyone on my behalf, too. I will, of course, pay some attention to the judiciary and to the measures taken by the Government in this area, namely the Ministry of Justice. 15 laws in the field of justice have been passed, which have already been approved here in the National Assembly. I'm not going to list all the names of these laws, we've done a lot of criminal proceedings, we've dealt with the law on lawyers, courts, court services and so on. It is currently preparing 12 legislative proposals, which are in the process of professional or intersectoral coordination. We are already dealing with some of these Members. There will be 6 entirely new laws and 6 new legislations. Let's do it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I would ask you to assure me that I can speak without comment in the audience, because everyone had the opportunity to say [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please don't disturb me, Mr. Gorenak and Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u143	Please don't comment if you can. Here you go, Dr. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u144	But these are methods that you don't leave an accomplice, one who has a word, and then you demand I don't know what right for myself. The Law on the Council of Justice is in preparation, and this will be a special law that has not yet been established, which will specify in more detail the powers of the Council of Justice. An important change for the Slovenian justice system will be the Law on State Attorney's Office, which will regulate the representation of the State in civil matters. Laws on courts will be amended: Law on Judicial Service, Law on Judicial Procedure, Law on Criminal Procedure, Penal Code is also in preparation. While I regret that we have not already adopted, adopted, or are not in the process of certain laws which are being announced, namely the judicial procedure and the penal law, but those laws are behind the first province and come into Parliament. It is very important that there will also be a reorganisation of the network of courts in the near future, which means that matters will be more evenly distributed among the courts. The problem now in the Slovenian judiciary is also this very big problem that cases are unevenly distributed in Slovenian courts and that some courts have fewer cases, some are drowning in them, some are resolved in different ways, including by judges going to other courts. From Maribor, for example, judges go to Koper and so on and to other courts. This will also make an important contribution to the abolition of judicial backlogs and the speedy resolution of cases. There was something about the position of Slovenia on the charts and also mentioning Justice Scoreboard. I would also like to point out that, according to some of the data not highlighted by the applicant, Slovenia is making progress, as the Minister has also said. It is essential that the trend of improvement is seen in Slovenian justice and that the Government has done what it is competent to do with the Ministry of Justice. The improvement will be even more visible when data from 2015 and in the coming years are available. It is therefore important to see the trend, the trend of improvement and, in view of the data we have from the judiciary in terms of statistics, that the time taken to resolve matters is significantly reduced and things are gradually getting better. However, it is not effective and cannot be good for us to intervene in justice, so that the Ministry of Justice intervenes in the judicial and judicial system at the same time and at the same time. For example, the minister also mentioned the Lukend project. This is that no one would think that I have only bad to say about this project, but in this project there were 200 judges employed in Slovenian courts. I remember these calls myself. At a certain point, 21 seats were reserved for each court. Really, we were looking for candidates who would be the judge. So, even now we have this situation that judges are too many, I agree with that, but this is also the result of the actions of the previous governments. It's not good to change regulations quickly. For example, Minister Pličanič decided, suddenly because of some cases in practice, that we should cancel the debt of land, we do not need it, because we had little of it, and then we cancel it. This is not good for practice, of course, when a certain legal institution is not yet in effect, and we are simply shutting it down quickly and gradually. I know that politics will always want to have an impact on the judiciary, because the judiciary is the one who, in the last instance, determines whether something was in line with the rules or not and, of course, if you might be dealing with justice, if you might be in the proceedings, of course, it is in your interest that justice would not have worked best and that it would not have identified certain irregularities. However, I do not believe that it is possible to identify the state of justice and government action on the basis of individual cases that are exposed in practice that are exposed in the media. On the basis of one criminal case, two, three now identify the situation in the field of justice and what the Ministry of Justice has done in this area. The Ministry of Justice has adopted a number of measures that directly or indirectly contribute to strengthening respect for the rule of law. We have established, through legislation that we have amended, higher penalties for corruption crimes against the economy, clearer definitions of tax evasion offences, elimination of time limits at a time when the convict is on the run, stricter conditions for the postponement of the prison sentence, restrictions imposed on the abuse of the Institute of Liabilities in bankruptcy, personal bankruptcy and so on and so on. I believe it is important that the judiciary is well thought out, and I believe that the Ministry of Justice is doing so to take measures that can be taken in the field of jurisdiction in the judiciary. However, the Minister of Justice and the other two branches of the judiciary cannot intervene through their powers. I think we also agree on this, but the conditions for the work of the judiciary and the courts in this context must be ensured by the Ministry of Justice within its powers. I think that this has done enough effectively with these laws that we have already proposed and that this will be even more visible in the framework of the laws that will follow in the parliamentary procedure, so that colleague Gorenak, we will talk about these laws in the future when they are tabled in Parliament, and I look forward to this debate. However, I support the Minister of Justice and, of course, the Government, which has taken all these measures in the judiciary, and therefore I do not think that the interpretation is justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr Vinko Gorenak, to be prepared by Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič and Mrs Andreja Potočnik. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. It's a real shame you're in front of me. Thank you, Secretary General, for staying here. Did she leave? [[…]] But she's gone. Okay. Actually, I asked her to stay here and have one special wish for her. That's why I express this desire to the camera or to those who will convey what I say to the Prime Minister. I believe he will be very interested, and I believe that the public will also be very interested in what I intend to say. Above all, this would be a topic for research journalists who are not. When the motioner spoke about it this morning, he said about the time you were appointed in 2014 to make a client and take over the government, that was what was happening and that. At that moment, the current Prime Minister lifted his eyebrows a little, looked behind the glasses, and he nodded a little. So he had to know that it was not so that he would be appointed to make a client and that he would later form a government. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the SMC, I believe that the vast majority of you and the vast majority of ministers have nothing or have no knowledge of it. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister the following questions. When you started establishing the SMC, then the Mir Cerar Party, you set your goal of being a factor, meaning to achieve somehow as the United Left to be a factor. In short, to have a word in Parliament, to come in and have a word, not to be four, but, say, seven, eight. That would be the goal, that would be a victory, that would be wonderful. I believe you don't know anything about this. Well, then there were meetings, first, second, third, public research, and the goal was achieved. Seven, eight Members. Well, of course, the machinery has done its part and suddenly the number 17, 18, 19, 20 appears, well, then Mr. Cerar was pale and at this point, there will be no misunderstanding, I ask him the following question: How many times, when and where did he meet Mr. Kučan? Why? What was the content of the talks? I ask him a public question: How many times did he meet with Mr Kučan during the time after the party was established, what did they talk about, where they met during the elections? And question number two: How many times, when and where today, is he communicating with the former President of the country, Mr Kučan? I'd like an answer today. After all, the government has plenty of time and I'd like to ask for that answer. I know you have nothing to do with this. I know you don't know anything. Let's move on. Even for Mr. President of the Government. Look, Mr President, the government is very pleased to say that we have financially stabilised this country, and the result is political stabilisation. Well, let him learn, but don't let him lie. The financial stabilisation of this country is achieved: starting with the ZUJF and continuing with Mrs Bratuška's 5 billion. But this government has done — What? It extended the ZUJF and made a permanent VAT on a temporary basis. So he's got nothing to do with it. Come in. I publicly urge him to open his right drawer, draw out the Foreigners Act and send it to Parliament. Mr President of the Government currently holds in the box of the Foreigners Act, which has an important provision which is extremely important for the security of this country, of utmost importance for the security of this country in terms of migration. He keeps this marriage in a drawer and doesn't want to put it at the government meeting and doesn't want to send it to parliament. Come in. We spoke yesterday in Odessa with Mr. Koprivnik. Mr Koprivnikar is a relatively unfavourable interlocutor for the reason that he speaks extremely much, but he says nothing. Then people think he's smart and what smart things he says. But let's take a look at the documents. I said there that there are about 3,000 more people in the public sector, I stress in the public sector than there were before that government. He said quickly three approximate numbers and finally that there were fewer. Now let's look at the real numbers. This document was signed by Mr Kraševec when he was Secretary-General, and the following numbers of public sector employees are listed here. 2008, when we left the government, 155 thousand, 2013 when we left the second government, 158 thousand and August this year 160 thousand 405. Signature, Mr. Koprivnik. Another document. Yesterday, the former Minister and President of the National Assembly, Mr Virant, also responded on Twitter. Twitter is a public matter, I can quote him. He wrote: “With regard to the number of employees in the public sector and the state administration, you are absolutely right. Kobo's loaded it badly." Kobo means Koprivnikar Boris, called Minister. Afna's in the front, that's the sign on Twitter. “He's loaded badly.” Let's see another document. It's a copy that's fantastic. This list is made today and covers all employees in the public sector, all from every kindergarten, school, museum, ministry, all written – 173 thousand 132. So much so, Mr Koprivnik, there will be no mistake as to who is lying and who is not lying. So Minister Koprivnikar lied, the question is, how many thousand. That's it. Go ahead, Justice. Your coalition contract says nine things. Firstly, consistent respect for the rule of law. What did you do? You took your term. Is that respect for the rule of law? And what else did you do? You prevented a referendum from being held by waste of state money and lost the referendum because the people were simply telling their story. Come on, that's interesting. The public accuses us of abolishing permanent mandates because, of course, it is not true at all; but you have written a permanent term of judges with a longer probationary period. You wrote that you would introduce a trial period before the permanent term of judges. There's nothing done. Next, zero tolerance for corruption within the judiciary. Fine, under all that, I'd sign what you said so far. I'll sign it. But reality isn't there. A while ago, the KPK issued a second report on the appointment of Mr Škrlec said that Mr Fischer and Mr Zalar had acted corruptly. Mr. Fisher is still your prosecutor. Remember when I had the letter here from the U.S. Attorney is your prosecutor. So you did something different again. Furthermore, the establishment of transparent criteria for the appointment of judges. Nothing, nothing. Open dialogue with civil society and constructive involvement of all stakeholders in drafting legislation. Great. I'll sign again. What did you do in reality? You've got the Justice Department, five laws, signed by 6,000 people -- and what happened?Oh, my God! On the board, I, Eva Irgle, I think that one of our own and a representative of the civil initiative, SMC, SD, everyone else there, and all of you were quiet, and no one answered. You were just against it. So that's how you're going to involve civil society?Oh, my God! You've been lying again. You cannot exercise strict control over the implementation of lobbying legislation. You put a pumpkin in your coalition contract because you can only change the law, but you don't control this law because that's what KPK does. Establishment of a specialised court, fog, it is not. The abolition of the department, what the Minister of the Interior used to say, to investigate and prosecute officials with special powers. There's nothing done. Land registering arrangements, nothing. In short, it's a perfect zero. It's very telegraph to leave enough time with my colleagues. Do you know what the Minister said at the hearing? He says he's opposed to the novelties of the laws, we have Law A, and then B, C, C, to Z, says that nothing new to the laws, things have to be systemic, we have to settle them by adopting laws, not by amending laws. [[…]] Result: 15 novels of laws and one law. 15 novels of laws and one marriage! See, that's it. You talk one thing, you work another. He said you were going to write a bill about Owl. He's not here. The Justice Supervisor will do it, he's gone. The burden of the Constitutional Court not to decide who is emptying the cemeteries or who is not, or whether the congregation or the state, which is a practical case, is not. With fire and sword, and immediately, he will go after the valuers, the judges, the interpreters, the executors and the administrators. Well, I don't know where that fire and sword is now. Maybe it's in some money, but now it's not here. There was no law. He said he was going to change the U.S.O.P., which is what the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin is called. Mistletoe, there's nothing. The Law of the Council of Justice is nothing. What did he do?Oh, my God! What the lady listed in front of me means that he planted flowers around Ljubljana and other courts. But we don't need a minister for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u147	Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Andreja Potočnik and Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to all! May I be allowed to walk through the cultural sphere in order to refute the proposaler's claim that the coalition agreement on culture is not being implemented in any way. The Minister of Culture, who was its Secretary of State two years before the Minister's replacement this year, is also responsible for all the work that has not been done. In the past, we have seen that Slovenian politics has not been able to determine whether the Ministry of Culture needs, or whether it may be some kind of link to another ministry. The fact is that a nation does not exist, if it does not have its own language, a culture in the broadest sense of the word, which means culture in all aspects of life and the work of society in all areas of our country. When we finally became aware that the Ministry of Culture was necessarily independent, we were already in the delay of regulating a wide range of important content and legislation. I cannot agree with the interpellation candidates who claim that nothing has happened and that the coalition treaty is not being implemented. It is unfair to postpone the delays of past governments in the field of culture, to the Ministry of Culture in the last term, which, under the coalition agreement, is able to expose state-ownedness, freedom, inclusiveness and widely accessible culture and the autonomy of creation. In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary, in accordance with the Coalition Agreement, to implement a reform of the cultural policy model aimed at establishing a strong network of cultural programme managers and public-interest projects that will receive the support of all other government departments. Cultural policy must be strategically placed in the implementation of all policies at country and local level. The Coalition Agreement explicitly commits all parties to strengthening Slovenian culture, language and cultural heritage, as it is about promoting creativity, social cohesion and economic development throughout Slovenian cultural space. The Coalition also supports the placement of Slovenian culture in the international field, in international space. It ensures freedom and the promotion of cultural culture and cultural and artistic education. The Coalition also ensures close cooperation between the cultural sector and other resources, with the economy and local communities; and strengthening dialogue with all stakeholders in the field of culture, particularly the non-governmental sector. It's Minister Mag. In autumn 2015, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar appointed an expert group to set up a platform for the preparation of a media strategy. The draft has already come into the stage of public debate and, on the basis of comments and suggestions from the interested public, a proposal for a media strategy is being prepared in the course of continuous dialogue with stakeholders. It is not the opinion of the interpolators that the members of the Commission that prepared the proposal were completely cancelled. Individual members had some serious comments, but not all of them, and not as regards the draft as a whole. This is normal and even expected for public debate, which is key preparations for a better solution. The proposal for a strategy is already complete and inter-sectorally coordinated. It may or may not be confirmed at the government's meeting at any time. On this basis, two key laws, a new law on media and a new law on RTV are already being prepared. Medresorsko is already a harmonised strategy for film education, at the time of interpolation a public debate on the draft architecture policy of Slovenia was concluded in order to be adopted by the end of 2016. An expert group has already been set up to determine how to protect and how to deal with cultural heritage in the future for a thorough reform of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. It should be noted that, even before the introduction of interpolation, which we also consider to be unnecessary and unjustified in meeting the cultural commitment, we have already taken the first steps towards connecting the cultural model or cultural system. Among other things, the novel ZUJIK, which redefines the social programme for culture as a truly strategic and also longer-term act; and has enacted some important improvements in the conditions for the work and life of self-employed people in the field of culture. Some amendments to the Media Act, the Slovenian Film Centre Act, the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in the National Assembly in September 2016, were also made in the direction of the renovation. It is clear that the Ministry of Culture has managed to improve cooperation with public authorities and other government departments in this mandate; and also in the preparation phase of projects for co-financing from European funds for a range of programmes and projects, which in themselves work well together with the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, with the Ministry of Public Administration and others. These are projects – a centre of creativity, a new career perspective, book projects, publishing, scholarships and language policy implementation and so on. Action plans for language education and language equipment work despite lack of resources. The Ministry has established such a centre in Berlin, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a well-functioning Slovenian Cultural Information and Information Centre in Vienna last year. Several successful presentations of Slovenian culture have been co-financed, such as art presentation in Budapest recently, participation at the Beijing Book Fair, cultural exchanges with the Russian Federation, France, Austria, Italy, Serbia, Croatia and some others. The Ministry of Culture has already set up the Institute of the NGO Dialogue Group and for dialogue with representatives of self-employed people in the field of culture before the beginning of this mandate. Both groups shall operate throughout the mandate of Minister Mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar as well as current Minister Persak. Representatives of non-governmental organisations are also included in the National Council for Culture and have also participated in the work of the above-mentioned sections on cultural renewal. Therefore, I believe that interpellation is unnecessary and totally unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u149	Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Prepare Dr. Ange Logar and Mrs. Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u150	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by stressing that the Modern Centre Party has stabilised this country. In the Modern Centre Party, we respect the democratic system of this country and for this reason I am participating today in this debate. In the formation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, interpellation was included as protection of democracy. And that gives me the opportunity today to talk to citizens and citizens. This is the seventh interpellation in line in this Parliamentary reference. And a lot of words were meant for economic growth. As a member of the Modern Centre Party, which is headed by the Committee on the Economy and I am a member of the Committee on Finance, I will not give you an answer to your concerns. But I'm going to focus on economic growth. The fact is that the basis for economic growth is the stabilisation of the country. The result of economic growth is what people feel every day. These are new jobs. These are not graphs, tables, data you have been using since the previous government and you use them with today's government. Our citizens and citizens are interested in what we are doing for them. How many new jobs are opening up. And if we open the papers, we can read the following. For example, Yaskawa, which will invest 125 million in Slovenia, will employ an additional 170 people. Revoz will make its most important Renault clio brand in Slovenia, New Town. New jobs will be re-opened. With its innovative product, the entrepreneur will penetrate the world market with 350 million investments in seven years, together with China. And yes, entrepreneurs also acknowledge that we support economic growth together with economic and policy cooperation. The government is definitely paying great attention to economic diplomacy. I come from the Municipality of Tržič and as a representative of the younger generation I am aware that young people want opportunities. They want new jobs. The opportunity to stay at home here in Slovenia. New investments mean new jobs. Attractive jobs, competitive market. Let's do it again, what we've already heard today. In 2014 and 2015, this government helped to employ some less than 50,000 young unemployed, up to 29 years of age. That's why I'm so proud of my job. I'm proud of my colleagues and colleagues in the coalition. I'm proud of the ministerial assembly, and I'm proud of our Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar. I'm proud of what we've done in two years. It is normal for you to read our work so far in the Slovenian Democratic Party because you are in charge of the old policy. I belong to the Modern Center Party, and I'm interested in the future. My colleagues on my left will have to be aware that we've changed the rules. And these rules bother many because they can no longer fill their pockets. Our changes support young people and create more employment opportunities. This has been proved by the budget adopted last week. The budget is mainly based on quality public health, the safety of citizens and citizens, the modernisation of infrastructure and the contribution for young people through concrete projects. For example, in 2016-2020 we will together spend 300 million over the fund guarantee. The coalition fulfils its duties and respects its citizens and citizens, and they also respect our country through business entities. This is seen mainly through the following numbers. Business operators and payment discipline improved in 2015. The companies and entrepreneurs that submitted the 2015 annual reports increased the number of employees and also the income at home, on the foreign market, net value added and net profit. For 2015, companies show net net profit, which is 127 % higher than in 2014. Companies with a positive profit increased net profit by 13 %. However, companies with a negative business outcome have reduced the loss by 20%. Companies operating in 2015 had 5 % more employees than in the previous year. And finally, let me say that I am aware that it is in the nature of the opposition to criticize us. However, while companies like Yaskawa from Japan, which could invest in any country in the world, will trust the money of Slovenia, I know we are doing well. However, I regret that some in this Chamber do not believe in Slovenia, do not believe in Slovenian workers, do not believe in Slovenian knowledge. But I'm glad strangers believe in us. I am confident that there will be more investment in the future, which will bring additional jobs. This is crucial, crucial to me and key to colleagues and colleagues in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u151	Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Prepare to be Minister Alenka Smrkolj and Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you, President. I'm a little confused. He's been standing in front of parliament all day, on the part where he can't park, the new acquisition of Mira Cerar, brand new bemfl, 7th series; for about 200,000 euros, which means that the Prime Minister is here in Parliament; but I don't see him in this chair. I wonder what he's been doing all this time as the head of the family here defending his color, mostly defending them here? What's the Prime Minister doing? Yesterday evening he boasted in the show that he would be happy to come to the interpolation where he would listen and argumentatively reject everything in this interpolation. And he's not with us. It's hard to address him, but I'll just talk in his absence. He gave a very high speech here about how everything in this country is okay and how this government has arranged everything. Slovenians have an interesting negotiation – Thank you very much, the price is small. Individuals from the coalition, who work a little faster for you clickers, will say that we have another saying on the other hand – Good goods are just boasting. But if we listen to the President of the Government, who said in the introduction, I quote: “It is not a matter of any complacency as we are told, but it is simply a matter of showing the fact that citizens and citizens know what we are doing.” If the President of the Government at the inaugural address when presenting the interpolation response says he is speaking to let the citizens know what we are doing at all, then he means that it is his own praise; not good goods. The Prime Minister of the Government was most upset when he heard from the proposer that this government was working in harmony, when we had a clear strategy. Go over his speech again, I've gone, and I'll just put some statements here. He said – we're making progress; we're moving forward; we've managed to freeze the sentence; migration has hit us unexpectedly. If any of the migrations happen unexpectedly, while the sparrows are already chirping about it, tell me if it is a clear strategy, or is it more a sign that it is a struggle. And if anything, this government's going in the direction of disaster. In those high words at the conclusion, the President of the Government turned against all Slovenes and Slovenes and said: “I would also like to thank all individuals of good will, volunteers, in fact all the people who do what is right.” If he thanked all the people who do what is right, we do it, that is, he has recruited honest people around him. And I am asking the Prime Minister whether Mr. Anton Zunič is working honestly or if his close associate in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Anton Zunic has been working honestly in the past? Mr Anton Zunič was President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank; he gave that millionth prize to Mr Kramar. And Mr. Kramar has been on his teeth all along, if he's won this millionth prize; but no one has really asked himself who it was that gave it to him. Mr. Zunich. When he left the New Ljubljana Bank, you know where he went, to a very high position at the Factor Bank, where he remained until her bridal end. Mr Zunič was head of the risk management sector. He was authorised to manage the bank's balance sheet and was also responsible for the preparation of the bank's internal acts. My question is, was he successful and honest? Whether he took into account the opinion of regulators and acted with due diligence of a good banker, professional care of the management profession of the bank. He was responsible for risk assessment. He was the main person in the middle of management or high management of risk management. This includes operational risk. You will not believe that Factor Bank has already received an operational risk warning from the regulator in 2008, namely that Factor Bank is not precise in defining its responsibility, that it does not have a transparent internal reporting system, that they do not plan independent controls in the future and so on. It's already in 2008. And he was still in that position. It was also responsible for the liquidity risk. This was a significant, third highest rate since 2009 at Factor Bank. Credit risk; since 2009, high, highest rate. Mr Zunič is responsible for everything. Interest risk, regulators, has identified a number of errors in his control. Mr. Anton Zunich did as he did. Mr President, the government probably thinks it's fair. Mr Anton Žunič was also responsible for the preparation of internal acts. At the end of 2006, the Bank of Slovenia adopted a decision on risk management, which all banks had to adopt in their internal acts. End of 2006. Do you know when Factor Bank adopted its internal credit risk management act? End of 2009, end of 2009. Until then, she was operating without an internal credit risk act. And you think Mr. Anton Zunič worked so hard that it took him three years to prepare him. No, no, no. At the end of 2009, the Bank of Slovenia warned him that it did not have this internal act and that the Bank must immediately adopt this internal act. And it wasn't until Anton Zunic moved in and wrote an internal file. Do you know what this means, in the opinion of some lawyers? In the absence of this internal act at the Factor Bank, the Administration is not liable for indemnity for not violating the internal act. And Mr. Anton Zunič is in the Cabinet of the President of the Government. Mr. Anton Zunič explained to the end while he was at the Factor Bank that the liquidity situation and matters at the Factor Bank were relatively normal. Relatively normal. You can imagine that someone who has such a wrong view of reality or so is deceiving, then the President of the government takes it to the cabinet. And I would like to know what Mr Anton Zunič so convinced Prime Minister Anton Zunič that he took him into his cabinet after all the stories that have happened in this government. For in the history of Slovenia, especially after the formation of the bank hole, there was no government that would give so many other opportunities to bankers who blamed the bank hole. There's no government! Only with Mr. Cerar is that possible. Remember SDH, DUTB – was headed by someone who was the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank at the time the biggest hole was created. Or at the head of SDH to put someone who was the head of the credit committee at the time when they followed the biggest weaknesses in the New Ljubljana Bank. Wherever you look, this government or the president of the government pulls someone out of a banking system that created a bank hole. And I wonder if that fall below the 100 thousand unemployed is conditioned by the fact that all those bankers who should be unemployed today have been given a second chance to participate actively in this government. How can an individual believe in the sincere purposes of this government that it will really prosecute banking crime if, in its own kind, it is in its core that the highest city appoints people who are essentially directly responsible for the creation of this bank hole. This government has double morals, double standards, and as is true for others, this government obviously is not. Now, as regards Mr Klemenčič's slightly inappropriate and inappropriate remark on the amendment of the Penal Code or penal legislation. He said: I went up to Iceland to see if these solutions are among the others that we have been proposing since April, you can also see them on our website, and they are now in interdepartmental coordination; and I don't know if any colleagues of Logar have copied from this CAP, because now you are also proposing changes to the CAP. As if Mr Logar or the Commission of Inquiry were competing with Mr Klemenčič. Let me mention that the Commission of Inquiry is the last set up in this area. The D.A., the police, the judiciary have always been involved in the prosecution of banking crime. Mr Klemenčič has been in this place for more than two years and could change something. However, only a few months ago, this Commission of Inquiry received the relevant documentation, which was previously blocked by Judge Desha Cener, which you gave right in your government opinion, if it is necessary to protect the human rights of credit cards and the Law on Parliamentary Investigation is unconstitutional. Remember. That there will be no misunderstandings, you have this on the website since April and we have probably copied something, in your opinion. Here I have a document Analysis of Slovenian Criminal Law, which was the basis for the work of the commission of inquiry in this criminal area. He's got date one. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day 2016, is an integral part of the report. This was the first case when we boarded members of the investigative commission to check the procedural legislation; it took you two years to get on it. We've been investigating this first case, date one. 3. 2016, so the question is, did you maybe copy any of what the commission of inquiry has prepared?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u153	The Minister responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion has the floor, Mrs Alenka Smercolj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u154	Good evening, too, on my behalf! As you know, the service I run is responsible for coordinating European cohesion policy and development. And first, a few words about cohesion. Cohesion has been, and is, too often, a hostage of various debates on whether we are successful in this area. Why am I starting this? Because I don't think this should be a key issue. The key question we must always ask ourselves is – what is the development contribution of these funds to Slovenia? Are we directing them wisely? Do we create added value with them? Whether it is an economy, science, education or social affairs. Some of my predecessors preferred to draw. My direction is indisputable in added value, and I also firmly believe that we are introducing more demanding development instruments, as hundreds of percent of subsidies have passed. We will have to admit this; not only because these funds are already smaller and will be fewer and will be virtually returnable after 2023, but especially because they do not make sense especially when we are talking about added value. And that's why we need to move in our heads, so I'm actually asking you to support this government in the direction of green, creative and smart growth. To support us in our efforts to connect the economy, science and education. To support us in working together with various government departments; to support us in our struggle for the economy to know what it can expect from the country; and to support us when we change Slovenia for the better with you. Yeah, for the better. That was our goal when we took over the leadership of the government. Let me recall in what condition, what was the area of European cohesion policy when we took over this mandate. We were threatened with a loss of funds. After success, we were 19th among 28 countries. In the two years since the programming period to Slovenia was over, we had to bring in 45% of the total funds. The programme documents that were urgently needed, despite the fact that the formal new programming period had already begun, were not yet available, were in the initial phase. And what did we do? We managed to pay €834 million out of the 2014 budget. In 2015, the record €916 million, with the efforts of all government departments. From 19th place we managed to get to 4th place in Europe. We have agreed with the European Commission on a partnership agreement, including a single operational programme for the period 2014-2020, and we have set up a regulatory framework. So we're working full steam. In July 2015 we issued our first decision on financial support. To this day, more than 780 million, or 146, have accumulated. Beneficiaries are already receiving funds and payments. We have also made major moves in the field of European territorial cooperation, where we have been entrusted with three out of four external borders, where the partners of Austria, Croatia and Hungary have trusted us to lead and that we are a governance body in cross-border cooperation. In transnational programmes, which we also coordinate, Slovenia is successful at this time alongside Germany, France and Italy. Among the extremely successful projects of the whole government is certainly the Smart Specialisation Strategy, which even the European Commission points out as an example of good practice. On the basis of this, in practice, we are changing the way in which the resources work, with joint calls and comprehensive support for priority areas. And this is exactly what he needs and expects the Slovenian economy, which must also be connected. This is the only way to establish and strengthen value chains at home and also to position internationally. And only in this way will we be present at a table that big people are thinking about how and where they're going to go. Now there is something else on the subject of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, which was also mentioned at the outset today. At the beginning of its mandate, the Government undertook the preparation of a long-term country development strategy. In our review of the situation, we had two options to prepare a updated document following the model of previous strategies by the end of 2015. We practically upgrade what happened. Or the strategic plan for the development of Slovenia is really prepared on comprehensive interdisciplinary expertise and needs. This would require a different process where we look at the contents as they do in society – interdisciplinary and horizontal; and not forcibly closed into different subsystems. This also means dialogue with several stakeholders within the government, with external partners, the economy, NGOs, social partners. Such a process of involving the general public — and not just when the document is actually completed — takes time. We've decided on a different, harder path. We have set up several working groups. On the one hand, we have undertaken analyses and reviews of the processes of implementing development and strategic guidance and the current documents. On the other hand, we started discussions on the future of Slovenia with residents throughout the country. We have found that the country's strategy is not sufficient. Slovenia also needs a long-term direction, its vision, which we will all realize in Slovenia. The vision is ready. It was taken care of by Slovenians, our inhabitants. We have included more than 100 inhabitants and residents of Slovenia in the process, in fact throughout the country. And it is in the coming weeks that we want to tell us what happened, what the Slovenians, our citizens, you, citizens and citizens, how you want to live in the future, also to present to all the parliamentary parties. This is an excellent opportunity, and I really want you to give us this opportunity. At the same time, this process also creates a strategy, not just as a document. In the process of its creation, we are establishing and developing the capacity of the country to strategically plan and also effectively implement the established guidelines. From words to words, we also need to move on to action. When are we actually going to have a strategy? We expect the light of the world to reach summer 2017. What will it bring us? It will be based on a vision designed by the people of all Slovenia. It will represent the fruit of horizontal cooperation between government departments, taking into account analyses and opinions of the domestic and international professional public. It will be prepared by the general public to respond to the needs of the whole society; and it will have a clearly defined framework for measuring its own performance. In short, we have something to show you. I believe we know and we can. Together, we believe that we can move forward successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u155	Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you, Chairman. I will be very brief, I owe an answer to Mr. Gorenak, who said I was lying. Mr Gorenak, one is the number of employees in the public sector as a whole; the other is the number of employees in the public administration in the small part, namely ministries and bodies in the composition. I believe you're waving, but if you tell me I'm lying, then I'll explain. In the mandate of this government, nine employees have been reduced in government services; in civilian work, including all ministries, 17 have been reduced by 17 employees and in the joint part of the state administration, which is subject to the staffing plan, 291 have been reduced by 291 employees. Compared to 2012, the total reduction in government is 2 000 781. And it is true, in the public sector as a whole, the number of employees has increased; in health care that I am not looking for numbers now, by 2 000 100 and in education by a thousand 600 because of the increased volume of services and the increased number of users of services. These are facts, and I've always mentioned them. However, we separate the public sector, the ministries and the bodies in the composition; this is a state administration, this is regulated and this is important. Let's get the data back on track.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u157	Replica, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. According to the anniversary of our birth, I used to know what the state is and what the public administration is like you. We need to know that. What you just said is true. What you said last night was wrong. Sure. There were 155 thousand people in the public sector at the end of Janša's first government and 158 thousand people were employed at the end of his second government; at the end of August, so you signed and there were 160 thousand 405. So, something smaller than 3,000 more. But in addition to our last few echoes, look at your list. On your list, made today, the whole public sector is 173 thousand 132. So that you don't have a replica again, here we're talking about the number of employees, and in this document you showed me the number of employees after hours. Did we get it together? Well, that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u159	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Prepare Mrs Urška Ban and Mrs Susana Lep Šimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The day, which was full of evidence of the government's failure, its inefficiency and poor results and the failure to comply with the coalition agreement, is slowly ending. I cannot agree with the allegations that are intended for the whole government because they are unfounded. Their work results show a different, that is, a successful picture. Since my colleagues from the Group of Social Democrats have already said a lot about the achievements of our three ministers before me, I will concentrate on the work of our Minister, Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, in the field of disabled and vulnerable groups, people from the social fabric. Those who have lost their jobs, people who have mental health problems, who are more difficult or unemployed, are disabled, elderly, migrants, Roma, and so on. Who will take care of those persons who still want to work and become part of the same social environment? Who enables them to re-engage in the labour market and feel useful again? These are social enterprises to which the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has laid the foundations. In 2014 and 2015, as many as 49 social enterprises were established, now 57 of them are involved in almost 3 000 people who are cared for by 220 people. Why am I explaining this? To learn how important it is to care for such vulnerable groups of people who need additional assistance and support at work and to be reinvigorated. Their lives and the quality of their lives improve, they become valuable again, they feel better, and their lives improve many times. Social entrepreneurship is with 1. 1. 2015 passed to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and I hope that they will also take care of these vulnerable groups. In December 2014, we adopted amendments to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. Measures such as the quota system, the subsidisation of the salaries of persons with disabilities, the quota-exceeding award, the payment of job adjustment, support employment and employment rehabilitation have a positive impact on the employment of persons with disabilities. In 2015, 2 000 817 people were employed, 59% more than in 2008. The number of unemployed persons has not increased even during the crisis; the number of persons with disabilities involved in the various employment rehabilitation services and programmes under the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act continues to increase. A very important achievement is also the amendment of the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities (ZIMI) in 2014, which allows the exercise of the right to technical devices and the adaptation of the vehicle and the acquisition of an assistant dog. For the first time in Slovenia, 2 000 251 valuations or approved technical devices have been published, financed by the State. For persons with disabilities in mental development, which are somewhat on the waiting list for inclusion in the day-to-day protection of work centres, the Ministry makes several investments to expand the capacity for new inclusions; namely, new works have been completed in the VDC INCE Mengeš for 90 users, and new works for VDC Nova Gorica have been launched, and the Obala Debeli Rtic Centre for 39 people, where there will also be a daily centre for three sections of the special education programme for 15 children and three housing groups for 24 persons with mental disabilities. Let me also touch on the fight against the poverty of the elderly. These have waived the security allowance and financial social assistance due to the property registration and the return of financial social assistance. Let me tell you that in preparation, the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act, which removes the property registration of €120,000 and also abolishes the repayment of monetary social assistance. The law is expected by the government at the end of November, and I hope that we will all support it in this national assembly. Despite fiscal constraints, our ministry has provided more than 33 million additional funds to improve the situation of families and has provided a hundred percent subsidy for lunches or a warm meal at the first, second and third incomes school. It has also been achieved that as many as 97 000 children receive a 10% higher child supplement this year, and a law on the prevention of violence in a family containing zero tolerance of violence against children has been adopted. Since it has not been possible to do everything else in two years, of course we have some work to do, namely the preparation of an important law on long-term care, which is being prepared together with the Ministry of Health. We are also looking forward to reorganising social work centres, where more emphasis will be placed on simplifying administrative procedures and enhancing the efficiency of work. And then someone else tell me that such successful and working ministers earn an interpolation. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude with the words of General Rudolf Maister: A nation without upright men is only a flock. And there are upright people in the government. I want everyone to continue to do a good job! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u161	Quiet, please. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor. Prepare to be Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka and Mr Andrej Cuz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you so much for the word. But I want everyone in the hall to have a good evening! Today many of you have wondered whether today’s interpretation makes any sense, is useful, is necessary, or is unnecessary. I don't deal with such questions. Interpellation is an entirely legitimate right for me to the opposition, and I respect it, as is our right, the right of the coalition to present the government's work in a reasoned manner to our citizens. And I am very much in favour of any debate where we can face certain facts, views and when we can also support this with numbers, with facts, which are certainly data. And then everyone has a chance to check these numbers and eventually figure out who is the one trying to show the situation differently than it really is. And today we have seen that we also know numbers to read differently, we see them differently, and we interpret them differently. I would like to begin by saying to the Member of Parliament today how this government has one billion more revenue than the government in 2013 and how it has failed to make this one billion nothing. Let me begin by saying that the Member State always says only a fraction of the revenue, one billion more; but forget to say that in 2013 the deficit was €1.5 billion, a billion-and-a-half was the deficit of the state budget. Also forget to say that in 2013, high indebtedness increased interest by more than €230 million. On the basis of these data, boasting or talking about the economic growth that was achieved at the time is not responsible for me; there is no achievement to be highlighted. And I'm going to stop at this revenue a little bit, because we're talking a lot, one billion more revenue, another billion and a half. In 2013, total revenue amounted to 7 billion 700 million. Total revenue of 8 billion 500 in 2015. That's not one billion to me, but it's less, much less. However, if we are talking only about tax revenues, in 2013 – 6 billion 200, in 2015 – 7 billion, then in 2016 – 7 billion 200. And here's this billion, so it's not total revenue, tax revenue. I have already said that it should also be borne in mind that it is then in 2013, and when we operate on revenue, it should also be said that at that time our deficit was one billion and a half to raise interest, as I said, by 230 million. And it's this very coverage of these deficits that practically went into this billion. I agree that we can now talk about what this government reduced its budget deficit to 2.7% of GDP last year; it will reduce it to 600 million in 2017 and 300 million in 2018. It certainly also reduces it at the expense of these higher revenues, as well as by keeping revenue growth still higher than expenditure growth. In addition, part of what could have been done for higher public spending for higher public expenditure is intended to cover those results that occurred before 2014. And many times it has been said how wonderful everything is now, how you drain honey and milk, as has been said. I already said at the budget hearing that I am looking at things a little more realistic. I still estimate that, in reality, we are still not where we were compared to 2008. And if we look at revenue, in 2008 the total revenue is 8 billion 500 million, this level of revenue is expected to be reached in 2017. This is what is foreseen in the budget. And now these higher revenues are not exclusively at the expense of higher tax revenues. Tax revenues amounted to 7 billion 685 million in 2008, and in 2017 they amount to 7 billion 374 million. To a large extent, however, they go towards an increase in European funds of 363 million in 2008 and are projected to amount to 929 million in the 2017 budget. The level of realisation of revenues from 2008 will finally not be exceeded until 2017. And what was our debt or debt in 2008? About 20% or exactly 21.8% of GDP. Interest was around EUR 400 million, or exactly EUR 326.2 million. And what are these figures for 2014 when this government came to work? Interest was 1 billion 83 million and debt was 81%. So this debt, which we are talking about today, did not arise yesterday, did not arise with this government, is not the result of the work of this government. It is true, however, that the budget, which this government has drawn up for 2017 and 2018 also, taking into account all that I have said and taking into account that we still have a budget deficit, that we still have to be in debt for this deficit, take into account some long-term, must be moderate, should also take into account the possibility of some negative trends in the economic and financial picture, also globally in the future. We know that Slovenia is a small open economy and has a diverse negative and positive impact on it. This data shows that we are reducing the structural deficit. Last year, with 2.7 GDP, we came out of the surplus deficit process. The result of this debt reduction has certainly been the result of that part of the measures in force from the ZUJF austerity measures which we have extended and cannot yet be released precisely because we have to devote this large part of the revenue to reducing the deficit. On the other hand, many measures have already been said today, which also affect and support economic growth in some way. After all, the government creates institutional conditions for the development of the economy, education, infrastructure and so on. I can list some of them: the government is implementing an internationalisation programme in 2015, providing security, promoting foreign investment, improving the business environment; we have adopted several laws when we have removed administrative obstacles, and this should be done in the tax area with several tax laws and other laws in other areas. Why is it important that Slovenia comes out of the surplus deficit process? As I said, we reduced it to 2.7% of GDP last year and, last year, a primary surplus of 0.3% was created in the budget for the first time since 2008. And improvements in the state of public finances are realistically expected this year as well, and data from the budgets adopted also show this trend in 2017 and 2018. Why is that good? Why is that important? For the first time, because this improves the quality of public finances and creates space for other priorities, as is clear from the 2017 budget. We allocate budgetary resources to important areas such as health, infrastructure, security, science, education. These are areas where part of these reduced interest costs, which are also planned in 2017, can also be reduced by 127 million lower compared to 2014. Secondly, the pressure on debt and debt costs is decreasing, which is particularly important for our future generations. Thirdly, we improve the reputation, position of Slovenia, ratings of Slovenia in international financial markets. As a result, there is also better access to finance for businesses, economies and our citizens. By coming out of this excessive deficit procedure, we do not risk sanctions by the European Union in the form of fines, as well as additional measures to be imposed by the European Union. We also have greater sovereignty. I cannot help but say that this part is also due to this government, because, after all, this government is in charge of fiscal policy in our country, running public finances and, as I have said before, creating the conditions for the development of the institutional environment. This government is governed by a sustainable public finance policy, which means that the burden of current spending cannot be borne by the next and future generations. So much for that. To conclude with the debt which has been mentioned several times since this debate. Yes, last year's debt reached that highest point – 83% of GDP. I've told you before that it hasn't been created since yesterday, it hasn't been created with this government. As we look at the reasons why debt also increased after the crisis, it is important to stress that most of this debt went towards ensuring a society with a relatively high level of income equality between the population. We will also gradually reduce debt, reduce debt; at the end of the year it is expected to be 80% of GDP, then 78% in 2017 and 71% in 2020. And given the extensive rehabilitation of banks, the deep economic crisis, the negative impact of the tax reforms adopted in 2007, which also contributed significantly to the country's debt, this debt reduction cannot go overnight. And the government, despite all perceptions, is constantly providing smooth funding for the state budget and actively managing this debt. I will just give a few more information and then I will finish; the average debt commitment time rose to eight years this year from almost six years, as was the case in 2013, thus reducing the risk of debt refinancing. The required return on the newly issued euro debt is expected to be 1.8% this year, up from 4% in 2013. As a result of active debt management, interest costs have also been reduced, the cost of servicing this debt, as I said earlier, is lower by a negative 130 million in 2017 compared to 2014. And these are also the results of the work of this government, and these are good results, which are also important for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u163	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor. Prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mr Benedict Kopmajer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members, Members, distinguished representatives of the government, welcome! I was kind of looking forward to the fact that the President of the Government would be here because he gave me so many starting points in his introductory address to discuss that I would have to limit myself a little so that I wouldn't be too long. I truly regret that he may not be able to give me any further answers. At the outset, he said that today's interpolation was not necessary. And I think it's still necessary for this interpellation. I believe that, whatever it is, it will bring a measure of solitude to your coalition family, in which the government, as Ambassador Jurša said, will bring coalition love. I hope this love isn't too blind. Before you continue with this slogan – Moving on, however, it is right to really think about what you have done in these good two. What you said you would do, you did not do; and what you would do to the end. Now let's look at some facts. It has been said that you have ensured political stability. If we just look at yesterday when the Minister of Health initialled the agreement; and as we have learned from the media about the responses of coalition partners, it is somehow difficult to judge some political stability. But I do believe that citizens don't feel this stability. The Prime Minister also initially said how you contributed to economic growth, and here were exposed many paths abroad, many visits here, in Slovenia. Even public administration has been exposed, but I regret to say that economists do not feel that this public administration would truly be such a good service to the economy to help promote economic growth. But if we look at what actually generated economic growth, we see for 2015, when it was 2.3%, that they were 1.1% deserving exporters. These are successful Slovenian companies, which are also successful in part at the expense of our main contractors or partners Germany and Italy doing well and that they can export. But what does this government do? This government, however, strikes at those who are most responsible for this economic growth. How do you hit them? By putting extra pressure on them. You have raised their profits tax, you have cemented the VAT that has affected all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You have introduced tax rebates that have affected smaller companies, and there is also a promise of a real estate tax that will also have consequences for the economy. But in any case, according to your slogan, you're moving forward and again, perhaps the economy can look forward to more burdens than burdens. Let me remind you how this government works. Before summer, the Economic and Social Council was abandoned by employers. Why did they do that? Since you are working on the principle of preparing a law; when you have it so-called ready for finesse, then you go to your employers, to those social partners with whom you should coordinate it, and show them a little bit. But the Economic and Social Council is not meant to do so, at least in past governments. The government of Janez Janša did not work in this way, but nothing about it, we move on and, of course, they moved on. The Prime Minister also initially stated that the policy no longer interferes with businesses and that you have placed experts in jobs. I would ask the President of the Government if he thinks that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia believe him. I believe they forget very quickly, but as many personnel as this government has done, and so many slips in this area with so-called experts, I don't think anyone has been able to afford it yet. Then I'll remind you of one thing. Mr Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, publicly admitted at one of the meetings of the Committee in the National Assembly that he was interfering with the DUDB procedures for one particular company, it was Sava. I don't know how any such statement can be made by the President of the Government. In 2015 about 15,000 people moved from Slovenia. A quarter of them went to Austria. I believe that the Ministry of Labour is in charge of an active employment policy, but I am extremely concerned about this active policy of hiring SD staff to the bodies that are in the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities. Do you know when this really started worrying me? When the consequences of such political recruitment on professional jobs began to manifest themselves. Let me make a case for the Korean boys. The person who made a key mistake at one of the social work centres was politically set up. He was a prominent representative of the Party of Social Democrats. And he made a mistake that had extremely cruel consequences. And according to the information they receive, such personnel are huge. If we look at what this minister has promised her before the previous interpolation, of course, with some positive thinking that she will prepare all the necessary legislation that she is already preparing by the end of the year. He was probably also thinking about reorganising social work centres in this context, but I'm afraid of one thing. Last week, I asked the oral question about when this reorganisation could finally be expected. The last answer was that by the end of the term of office of this government. And if the term of office ends at the end of the year, then fine, then the Minister has fulfilled her expectations if she does so by then. Besides, I don't know how the President of the Government will be able to trust her in the future. If we take another look at some of the good projects of the same minister, with whom you went so cheerfully forward, let me remind you, everyone — and this is true — has been very pianistly supported, as we would not be, as the ministry often publishes various calls for promotion and for communication with the public. It's a debt write-off. You promised to help hundreds of thousands of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. How many of you are they? Three thousand 605 people. Let's look at the values. There are more costs with them than they actually are in the pension and health allowance. And one more thing. How many students have they produced so far, given that they are now in some way considered working hours? How many of these working days did they gain during this period? Maybe the Prime Minister knows this information. He'll tell me later. But of course you go with your slogan – it goes on. Regardless of the results that you cannot challenge, of course you are moving on. One more thing, raise the international profile. What have you done to raise the international reputation of the Republic of Slovenia? With nominations for the United Nations or for a judge in the European Court of Human Rights? Is that how you raise the international reputation?Oh, my God! It has also been pointed out that you are strengthening dialogue with the regions and taking into account the specificities of the regions. I've exposed Haloza a lot of times. And of course, you all agree that Haloza really needs to be helped. When we adopted the budget, we proposed an amendment to Halose. And you know what you as a government wrote in this explanation? You wrote me about the law on the pomor region. If I can think of any photos, a few of the government's representatives were in Haloza. I really don't know how long we've been at that end of Pomure. What's the problem with this government now? This was the Government's explanation for the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. What's the problem, in geography or in people you have employees? That's probably what the Prime Minister is responsible for, but you're moving on. You know, citizens and citizens are a little afraid of where you're going. When adopting the budget; on the date of adoption, the European Commission's warning that the budget does not comply with the rules of the European Community. But no; let's not talk about the uncoordinated, open fronts with unions, about 300 million that they don't know where they are. But no, you're moving on again. I believe your slogan, really, I kind of felt it today. You really do work that way. And you moved on. You said, nothing, move on, we confirm the budget for 2017 and 2018. Final Account 2015, the work of your government, the Court of Auditors is a bit of a dilemma, as it is finally determined that you do not even know what you have from basic funds. But regardless of what the Court of Auditors thinks, you're moving on again. Nor is it that the government does not respect what we accept in the National Assembly. Last summer, we passed the Law on Intangible Securities. At the third reading, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposed an amendment that the total management costs do not exceed 0,5 % of the average value of the securities. You have agreed with this, you have supported the amendment and the law has been adopted with this amendment; this means that the law is valid and the government must respect it. But here is the former Minister of Finance, who in response to the question of the Member of Parliament writes nicely that from this article they are entrenched because the opposition has proposed it and the government has disagreed with it. The National Assembly is the one who passed the law. And you should respect him. But you joyfully go forward again, no matter what the legislative branch of authority accepts; and you do not respect. That is why we have various corrections in the form of an authentic explanation and so on. I'm really afraid of what's left of you if you go any further in the direction you're going. But what I'm really worried about is a lot of things have been pointed out here today, including vulnerable groups. But do you know which are the most vulnerable groups in the Republic of Slovenia? First of all, those who work and pay what they get can't survive. On the other hand, those who have worked for almost 40 years or 40 years or over and with the pension they receive cannot survive. Maybe we should fight a little more for these vulnerable groups. And one more thing I find really amusing, the Social Democrats love pear stuff. They were the ones who put the property mark in place. Now they are proclaiming with pride – now we will withdraw it. Tell me, we did, we did the wrong thing, and we'll fix it. Don't pear the story to turn in a completely different direction. Dear Government, ask yourself which way you're going, and if it's really wise for you to go that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u165	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Prepare Mr Benedict Koppmeyer and Mr Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u166	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I must say that after 13 and a half hours of waiting and about 10 hours of sitting in benches, it is a great honor for me to even discuss and say what I think; but this is not now flying at you, but it is a general observation. However, I would like to start this debate with three points where I do not agree with the representatives of the coalition, but I do not resent them so much. The first is what Mr Radič said that Slovenia has become one of the 10 most peaceful countries in the world; that is, Peace. If the government of Mir Cerar wants to fill the magical triangle — Peace, Love, God — by the end of his term, it must provide enough love in the coming year. But I believe that in the end the people will see to it that Bok will tell you and send you to the dump of history. So it's a song, it's a love, it's a god. I think the triangle's pretty good on the way. On the other hand, what I said as a second point, I thank you that despite being the youngest member of the National Assembly, you brought me back to the elementary school bench while we were competing to make a reading badge. Otherwise, there were quite a few discussions at the very level, especially Mrs Ban, Mr Ferlugo and Mr Verbic, who were discussing the arguments; everything else was a reading exercise for a reading badge in this National Assembly. And where is the Member's autonomy?Oh, my God! Thirdly, I would also say that it is almost unacceptable that on the day of the interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Prime Minister Miro Cerar comes with some new moral standards and parks his Beemwe before entering parliament and shows citizens and citizens who have more. We know what we're doing, so let's just leave it. I also resent the fact that I wanted to take pictures for the website today, but I can't because I'm not taking pictures with a car like that, but let's just leave it. But let's go to a point of content that I resent to this government, perhaps not only to the government, but also to someone else. Slovenia is a member of the European Union. We probably all agree here that the European Union project and European integration and cooperation are certainly on the ground. It is better that we in Europe, rather than printing tolars today or tomorrow, somehow referred to some sovereignty and closed borders. According to my assessment, when European leaders discussed the integration of Europe and some European values in 1957, they were thinking mainly of more economic cooperation, integration with other continents; rather than the falsified multicultures of experiments to which we have witnessed in the last few months. Dear colleagues and colleagues, under this falsified multiculture experiment, you are also a part of this experiment, because you have been defending migrant quotas through all of them, and I don't know what it is. I say here that, in fact, even the European People's Party and also the European Socialists are part of the problem and not the solution; they have somehow forgotten European values and also the European spirit. Where was our foreign minister, Mr Erjavec, when our northern neighbour, Foreign Minister Kurz, proposed to suspend negotiations with Turkey to join the European Union. None of the 27 other members had anything to say what they were up to. We all sat down, and we said, as the mother of Merklov and Mr Juncker say, that's how it's gonna be. And that's the problem. Today, we do not have strong sovereign states and strong sovereign governments and parliaments in Europe to resist Brussels. Not to say that I also resent Mr Cerar's expulsion ten days ago from Slovenia by a Nazi, a publicly declared Nazi who spoke publicly about the recognition of the Third Reich and nothing else; but Slovenia accepted it. We'll probably take care of her, too. I say that it is necessary to take care of its citizens and citizens first. Of course, here is the question, colleagues and colleagues, until when will we be the servants of Merklov and Juncker? Until when? Will we stand up for ourselves once and say so? There's been a lot of talk these days about Rudolph Master. Yesterday I attended a state celebration in Dornava. I'm sorry as the only member of the National Assembly, but let's just leave it. He liberated Styersko, joined Styrian Slovenia. But today, when I talk to my peers in Styria, everyone says that they resent him so that everyone would prefer to live in Austria. And I believe that there are also many Members of Parliament who experience this when they go through the field and participate in the offices of the Members. Dear Mr Trstenjak himself said: "Slovakia must be equal to all other European nations. Let's stop being calliheroths." I think I have said with this how I feel about our foreign policy and also Slovenia's policy towards the European Union. However, as a last paragraph, you might point out the proposal for double taxation of the Internet. I suggest you go to the Ministry of Culture or as a government to propose a stupidity tax. I'm sure we'll fill the budget quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u167	Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer has the floor. Prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to everyone at this late hour! Although we have heard a lot of criticism today, we need to find that interpellation against an individual minister or government is not necessarily negative. It is so positive that we can talk and exchange our views of the current situation in the country. Let's go from general to specific, to facts. I'm gonna ask myself, how do we feel about the government's work in Koroška? That the government works with full steam, as said by fellow Servant, is true, and this is also known in Koroška. Allow me to mention some of the activities and results that touch all ministries. Sanitation of state roads. This includes regular maintenance, patching, rehabilitation of damaged vehicles. According to the data of the concessionaire operating the roads in Koroška, this was carried out in 2014 at EUR 2 million 700 000, in 2015 at EUR 3 million 800 000, for 2016 because the year is not yet finished and there is no data. Just now, an investment in a new bridge across the Drava River in Vuhred, also worth more than EUR 2 million. Almost all waste water treatment projects have been successfully completed. A European Drinking Water Supply project was launched in the Upper Drava Valley, worth €50 million. This is a project that runs from Dravograd to Podvelka. Then state property, here I think of former guards and other facilities, were successfully allocated to owning or managing local communities where they develop social or economic activity. Not to mention the general hospital in Slovenj Gradec, where there was a major renovation and also a part of the new building; then the Ravne High School, both – Ravne and Slovenj Gradec; then the new music school in Slovenj Gradec. Next, bold steps have been taken also on the project of the northern part of the third development axis, which is extremely important for us, Korosce, and for our economy. A few tens of millions of euros are coming to Koroška and, of course, we are satisfied with this. However, I must also mention the cooperation of the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, whose work is yet to be felt between the Slovenian societies and associations in the Austrian Koroška, just a few kilometers away, making them extremely pleased. Participation in cultural and economic projects, such as the Land under Peco or Petzenland, where the municipalities of Tostrand and the external borders participate, and could include only upgrades. By the way, Minister Žmavc opened the Slovenian Book Centre in Celovac today. If I fold or finish; the government is successful. However, I expect that by the end of the mandate, a development and reform breakthrough will be able to take place in key areas in investment, structural plans, health care, economic transformation and demographic issues. This is how we feel the work of this government in Koroška. How do I understand today's interpolation? It is positive that it is at least partially substantive and is not only incriminating about communists and denigrates, although it has already gone into this area. Nevertheless, after some discussions, I feel that we are not living in the same country. Interpellation would also take place in the context of internal dynamics in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Interpellations or decisions that are ready to be accepted or rejected will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u169	Mr Anton Peršak, Minister for Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you. I would just like to say to Mr Couch and all the other concerned that we are not planning any tax on the Internet; we are only thinking about a special contribution for those platform owners who publish undisputed media content, audiovisual content and advertise companies, and so on, because they mean unfair competition to the real media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u171	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Prepare Mr. Marijan Pojbič and Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u172	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Nice greetings to the ministerial team and colleagues and colleagues! I'm gonna start a little differently, and I wouldn't be as excited about these interpolations. In the past, there are supposed to be 40 of them, of which only two are successful. I'd say we're living in some kind of interpretation tsunami. You could say that maybe this is becoming some new sport discipline of the Slovenian opposition or maybe someone wants to enroll in some book of records. But I also recognize the legitimacy of the opposition towards this interpretation, and I think that in this case it is mainly a repetition of the same criticisms that do not take into account the results achieved by the government. I would not count the time, hours and minutes we spend here; it would be better to spend them to adopt a better law or perhaps to focus on some economic topic in this House. Of course, I will also assess the government as a whole today, and I will not talk so much about individual ministers, because I think the government is doing well. I find that, in essence, it is a project approach to managing the government, and the results are also appropriate. We've heard a lot of numbers before, I wouldn't repeat them, the most important is economic growth – 2.7%, the reduction in the deficit from 5 to 2.9; unemployment fell below 100,000 and we reduced it by as much as 16,000 unemployed. How did we get those results? The answer is team and project management of the government according to the principles of project management. And here I would mention an example of good practice, perhaps the Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, Prime Minister Cerar, Minister of Restoration and Minister of the Jews recognized the forests as a natural resource. Thus, the Ministry of Agriculture and Economy has drawn up a law that we have also adopted in the National Assembly. This law has brought about some new substantive practice and has brought together the Ministry of Economy and Agriculture and industries in this area, which are linked to forestry, wood industry. This is an example of the good practice of Minister Restovalska and Minister Židan, who connected two sectors by vertical, from log to products with high added value, into the forest and forest chain for the production of high added value products. The law has also established conditions for efficient forest management, which will prevent exports of timber without added value. The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, and also Minister Restorationšek, recognised the advantage of a sectoral approach to wood industry that had not yet been established. It once hired as many as 50,000 workers, even 70,000 with commercial companies; today it is barely 10,000. In order to avoid the wood industry, they proposed the establishment of a wood industry directorate whose task is to create conditions for the economic environment for the development of the wood industry and to establish vertical links in the forest and forestry chain for the creation of green jobs. The Forestry Directorate and the Forestry Directorate jointly establish a forest chain and conditions for the integration of both activities. The aim is to make forestry the fastest growing sector in Slovenia. I refer to this as an example of a project approach, the adoption of a law that will give us great and good results in the long run. To touch the infrastructure. Here too, I think that the government and the ministry have recognised that infrastructure projects have multiple effects on economic growth. Despite strict fiscal frameworks, the government allocated more funds this year and increased them from the previous 10 million to 100 million this year. I will also touch on the third development axis project. It was drawn like the yoke of a snake, and the promises of governments have spread all the way from 2000 onwards. The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, Minister Gasperšič, has come from words to action and for the first time in 15 years we can talk about concrete moves on the third development axis. This will start in 2017 with the purchase of land, the design of the section of Slovenj Gradc do Velenje and the start of construction works in 2018. Also a famous second track, a similar story. Until now, the government had promised construction, promised a beginning that had never existed. That's what happened in this term. With the start of the construction of the extraction track, we can talk about the start of this famous project. A building permit has been issued. So the government is the first one to start building this project. And if I conclude, the President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar and the government, we say in Koroška, have inherited a busy and pompous farm, if we are talking about a parable. The country in crisis, negative economic growth, high unemployment, political instability, high indebtedness. And at home, as we say to Korosca, we stepped together, we started to solve things, and under the guidance of Dr. Mir Cerar, the results are obvious. And I think it's these positive results that bring some unrest to the opposition that these positive movements don't recognize. Once again, the interpolation is legitimate, but also in this case it is not substantiated. In conclusion, the country of Slovenia is making more progress under the direction of this government in all respects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u173	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and the Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I must mention Mr Kopmayer and say that I received a message from Koroška and send him a greeting from Koroška, where they wrote: For Koroška, this government has done nothing. This was written down by your colleagues from Koroška, Mr Kopmajer. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u175	Quiet. It applies to all sides of silence.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u176	The next thing that seems extremely important to me is that the representatives of Desus have said that the Slovenian Democratic Party is making the work of the government impossible with interpretations. And I ask them, did they do anything in this term? Then I'll explain why I asked. And the next thing I have to respond to, which is distasteful, unacceptable, extremely rude and humiliating to the Slovenian people. One of the members of the Modern Centre Party allowed himself to say the following, quote: “So we went to look, that would be very much on Slovenia.” There's a lot of Slovenian stuff. This is what Mr Dusan Radič said, which is for the 30th Murski wave. 5. 2014 – and now is a member of the Modern Centre Party – said the following: "Smart people are fleeing politics. In Slovenia, however, it is clear to all of us what the idea of politics is.» I hope you understand what a man sitting in your parliamentary group is saying. Can someone sit in the Slovenian Parliament and so humiliating talk about the Slovenian nation, about the Slovenian people, who are representatives of the Slovenian people and people?Oh, my God! To speak – Slovenia; rude, distasteful, absolutely unacceptable. I really have to tell you this, I have very little time, I'm very sorry, or I would be significantly longer today. And I continue with my next important view of why the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an interpretation against the government. And I ask you all who are sitting in Parliament what they would do if after a month of nights, Sundays, holidays came home with a minimum wage of 600 euros or less. How would you feel? How would you feel if a month came around and got 220, 250, 280, 300, 400 or 500 euros in pension? And here you speak the great words of what you have done for the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people. I'm telling you right now what I've just told you is that 30 percent or more of people live on the poverty line. That's what you did. Don't be embarrassed and don't be ashamed. And to continue what Milan Balažic, former ambassador, said. I will first read his quote, so he wrote in the column: “The first man of Slovenia speaks as if he is incompetent, acts as incompetent and acts as incompetent. Do not be fooled, Cerar is incompetent.” Mr. Balazic. I quoted his words. And finally, 'cause I have a little time. My dear mother, who celebrates Christmas on her 82nd birthday, asked me to say a few words in this national assembly on her behalf. She gave me an envelope, along with Mary and Emilie's neighbors. From their pension they donated to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Mir Cerar: my mother has 470 euros in pension – 2.7 euros in harmonisation; then Mary, who has 270 euros – 1.50 euros, and Emilia, who has 278 euros – equal to 1.50 euros. And they donate 5.70 euros to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The monthly reconciliation of pensions has been waived, and they want to tell everyone in the coalition and the government sitting here what your concern is for those most vulnerable groups in our society. And what else did she tell me and ask me to say? God does not let any uncle in the background stick to these funds, so that the government does not accidentally pass on to an Earthling, a Dog, and so on, some 30% of these funds. She specifically warned me to warn the government. At this point, I will transfer this to the table where the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sits.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u177	Mr Pojbič, this is most likely the conclusion of your debate. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Mr. Gasperšič and Mr. Mag. Branislav Rajić. Mr. Weber, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I think it is right that I should first point out in my introductory part that it would probably not be necessary for today's meeting, which is aimed at interpreting the whole government if it were not for the measures proposed by the proposaler himself or in fact he wanted us to take them in Slovenia. I am referring to the adoption of a fiscal rule, including the adoption of the Slovenian state holding company as the manager of our common property and the legislation of a bad bank that is supposed to solve the bad situation in our banks. All these crisis measures have been extended by the adoption of these measures, and this is what is also reflected in the situation of people. If we need to discuss something today, we should discuss the evaluation of these measures. It would probably be very reasonable for all of us, the opposition and the coalition, to try to find more effective solutions than those to which we are witnessing, and to propose today's interpretation. And this would certainly give us a clearer answer to what needs to be done in Slovenia in order to reduce poverty. We would have a clearer answer to what needs to be done so that more young people could be employed. Today we have already made a lot of controversy about the fact that almost 50,000 have managed to get a job, but this is far from what should actually happen in Slovenia if we want to talk about in 20, 30 years that it is not a lost generation; but that it is a generation for which we have done everything to be able to receive pensions as well. In this context, I would like to point out that I would really be very pleased if we today vote on the conclusion that, with this common property or our common property that we have in companies, we manage and manage it in a way that will provide a long-term sustainable and stable pension system, especially for this young generation that has not yet thought about it. However, we must be aware of this to enable them to do so. The common theme should be the establishment of a so-called demographic fund which, in my view, should actually manage all our common property, which we still have in companies. And this is the most effective response to the fact that in the future, if we can address the level of opposition and coalition, there will be no need for measures and meetings such as today's, to discuss the interpretation of the entire government. This is a debate that I think should certainly continue in the remainder of this government's mandate and come up with decisions that should certainly be strongly shaped in this direction for the opposition to participate in them. If we are talking about this long-term management of our common property, then it is probably right to legislate these solutions with a two-thirds majority so that not even any current government can change them in some new mandate. But it really needs a broader social consensus. And if it is found that the situation is insufficient at this point, it is unsatisfactory at this point, let us do something to change them. However, in the interpretation of this problem itself, and even in today's debates, this was significantly less than I expected, given that this is a real problem in Slovenia and a real solution with which we can change a lot of things. Because if we start talking about managing our common property and not selling it out, then there will be no problem in talking about some advisory agreements that are out in the dozens, hundreds of millions of euros to meet with different lobbyists who want to influence the President and the whole government, Members. All these lobbyist and interested groups will be disposed of at a time when we decide to treat our common property in such a way that it will be good for the young generation in 20, 30 years. And this is the measure to be taken as soon as possible. They're out, as I said, many of the problems we're talking about today. I must also admit that somehow, I will not say disappointed, this is sometimes one way or another to understand; but given the decision made yesterday in the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme, where it was decided whether or not we would sell one important share of our common property, it is Luka Koper, who will be actually the subject of sale, and also Slovenian Railways, if this transport policy strategy is applied. Although tied to this famous second track, it is largely used to make this sale. And when I looked at yesterday's vote, if the opposition were to vote against this resolution, they would reject this proposal and give the government a clear signal that it will stop taking measures that are actually too expensive for Slovenia or are exhausting the country, and they are also exhausting people. The more you drain the country, the more poor people are. Unfortunately this rejection has not occurred and this is one of those decisions or missed opportunities that we had yesterday; and we would indeed do what is very meaningful and necessary for the further successful economic development of Slovenia. Thus this resolution will be current, the National Assembly has given some kind of green light, including to the minister, to continue his activities, by selling Luke Koper and selling Slovenian railways. And regardless of trying to make excuses, if we set up a holding company and then it will all be different; holding itself actually means only bypass or circuit to this sale. And once again, with every sale of our common property, we all become poorer together, and this is certainly not the future we want. With all this debate we have today, I think we all had the opportunity to take a concrete step towards making the situation in Slovenia better yesterday. Unfortunately, however, this was delayed; also because the motioner abstained largely in this programme of resolutions, which means that he somehow did not fully accept it. However, if it were against, this measure would have been rejected and this would indeed be one effective decision of the National Assembly and an important signal to the government that it must actually act differently than was proposed in this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u179	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Branislav Rajić and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Porotat. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues in the Government, distinguished citizens and citizens who are still watching our performance in the National Assembly! I think that, according to these words, Mr Weber's Member of Parliament is quite a good time for me to come by myself. Today is exactly three days and two months since I've been here responding to the interpretation of my work. Interpellation was then supported by a record low proportion of Members, which in a kind of way speaks of the merits of that interpolation. That is why I will not speak and deal with the evidence of this interpretation today, but I will use my time mainly to talk about our work in these two years and about the plans that we still have to go on. Our results in the area of infrastructure are visible and measurable. And let me briefly list just a few of the most important things. After many years of underinvestment in road infrastructure, this government has also provided more funding in this year's budgets for the next two years, with which we have resumed our investment in road infrastructure. We have already spent 100 million euros this year, and this is already known on our roads, as some of you, Members and Members have noted. By this September, we have renewed 30 road sections, and by the end of the year we are predicting overlays and renovations at 60 sections. The volume of road infrastructure works will only increase as we have a total of €270 million in the budget for the next two years. Our goal is to establish a quality level of state roads over the next six years. By the end of the mandate, we will be improving the situation on at least 20 per cent of the road network. In October 2015 we began to build the missing part of the highway between Drazenci and Gruškov. The works will be completed in mid-2018. The following year will be completed Šmarje - Sap, and in 2018 we will start building the second tube of the Karavanka tunnel. Dars is already carrying out activities to ensure that the construction of the third development axis is started in its southern part and also in the northern part, and construction would start at the end of 2018. We have also adopted two strategic documents that Slovenia has not yet had in the field of infrastructure. This is the Transport Development Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia and the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which you adopted in the National Assembly just yesterday. We have already invested a good billion euro in upgrading and upgrading the railway infrastructure, updated and upgraded 155 kilometres of track, and equipped 412 kilometres with a digital radio system. This year, for the first time, an electric train took off along the Prague–Hodosh track. Over the next few years we will invest some 350 million euros in modernisation, upgrade the Maribor-Šentilj railway lines, the Zidani bridge-Cele and the Prague hub. We have also started to rebuild the Kočev railway and will take the train after it in 2018. At the end of last year we completed 362 energy rehabilitations of public buildings, 55 energy efficiency projects and 170 biomass projects. At annual energy costs alone, the municipalities have saved about €1.5 million per year by renovating buildings. We have adopted the Long-term Strategy for the Promotion of Energy Reconstruction of Buildings; in the European Cohesion Policy programme 2014-2020, we have €115 million of non-refundable and €50 million of reimbursements for the energy recovery of public buildings. Taking into account the growing interest in the energy contract and the public-private partnership, we can expect an increase in these investment investments by factor 4. We also completed the project of rebuilding and new construction of the passenger terminal at Edward Rusjan Maribor Airport. Slovenia became one of the first countries to ensure, with a network of 26 fast electric chargers in the European corridors, that the electric car user can safely travel through Slovenia. We have introduced an integrated ticket that has already been used by 116 000 students and we will continue to extend the products of this system to other users. Of course, I can't get past the second track project between Divest and Kopro. The implementation of this project is and remains a priority of this government. It is an engineering and financial project that is very demanding, with a total of 27 kilometers of track being 20 kilometers in tunnels, two viaducts, two bridges and one gallery will be built. We have obtained a building permit for him, and we have also set up a project company that will be an investor of this building. Regarding funding, we prefer a model in which, as a private partner, Slovenian logistics companies, which benefit the most from the second indent, are involved; at the same time, our aim is to at least burden taxpayers with funding. In this regard, we are also discussing possibilities for cooperation with Hungary, which is of very great and serious interest in participating in the development of logistics in the area of Central and Eastern Europe. This cooperation is not necessarily conditioned by the neighbouring country with its participation in Luka Koper, so once again I stress that our efforts do not in any way lead to any privatisation of the port of Koper or the privatisation of the Slovenian railways. Finally, let me stress that I remain and insist on the commitment I have already made; this is that we will start the second track in the coming year. We are also implementing other infrastructure projects more rapidly. This is our responsibility for the present and the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u181	Mr. Magg has the word. Branimir Rajić. Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Branislav, not Branimir.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u183	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u184	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministerial assembly; good evening to all who follow the interpellationary sequels! Today’s state holiday – Rudolph Maister’s day is celebrated in the most inappropriate way. The seventh interpolation in this reference to the National Assembly, statistics that are far above average. On the day when we should devote our thoughts socially and nationally to the warrior, for which Slovenia ends in Shentil, instead of the Vita disolute. And in the uncontested Marburg, namely Maribor, we have Slovenian kindergartens, schools and Slovenian theatre. The frequency of interpellations is proportional to the anger of the opposition, as the government's achievements do not allow it to confess its pain differently from interpretation. And who, after six drills in the interpolation class, would be interested in the gathering being accompanied by an interpeel argument?Oh, my God! Aren't interpolation instruments devalued to absurdity? The government is doing well. All the measurable indicators have identified results that are the opposition's nightmares. It is becoming increasingly clear that people are no longer interested in what the promoters of interpretation are reading to ministers, ministers and governments. Actually, that's not what the instigators are interested in. They only report hours and hours of discussions in order to kidnap the media space and with it the attention of the public. In doing so, they overlook their own political heritage, which almost led the country to capitulation and criticise the general average. The modified data blurs perspective. The said €123 million for migration means the 73 million that the European Union has contributed. The lying rate is only 60%. They do not consider the undeniable fact that they have reached their government's highest budget deficit, the highest unemployment rate, they have interrupted social dialogue, they have triggered a wave of bad loans. The government of Mir Cerar and the coalition have reached the minimum budget deficit since the start of the crisis, unemployment has reached the lowest level in the last 15 years, social dialogue has been strengthened, and the problem of accumulated bad loans is being finally resolved. We did not dig bank holes, we dig those, many times mentioned, tunnel with light at the end, which we entered at the beginning of the mandate. Every day we do something that improves our society and our economy. We promote science and research. We search and activate investors at home or abroad. We don't threaten investigative journalists. We really have no reason to be afraid of such interpretations. It's too bad we can't interpret the interpolation triggers. All levers are used to justify this interpolation, including the rude and heartless involvement of family dramas and childhood tragedies, which is unprecedented manipulation. People are embarrassed when they listen to this deception; and they rarely have the stomach to stand up for it. Everyone you've dealt with with with childhood tragedies has little to do with the children you refer to when you're dating the nearest camera. The inability to face the achievements of this government translates from the indications of your interpretation. It doesn't matter to you who runs this government and what this government does, it's only important that you interfere with its regular work and turn into nothing that you haven't been able to achieve yourself. Your criteria for interpolation are clear – interpolate when you are not comfortable. But there is one subject and one person in whom we are all united – the meaning and merit of Rudolph Maister; today in particular. It is significant, however, that with the logic with which you approach interpretations, voting for power, you would also interpret Rudolf Maister himself if you lived during his great victory. And I was going to conclude with him, but this afternoon the newly elected President of the United States, Donald Trump, called Prime Minister Cerar. As the conversation took place in a kind tone, fear gripped America. They're afraid you'll be interpolating Trump soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajic. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grims and Mr. Ivan Prelog. Here you go, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, ministers, co-workers and, of course, Members and Members of Parliament! I wonder what else I should say tonight about this interpretation, because it's been said so. And I'm going to repeat that this is the seventh interpellation in a row and that we have already submitted the eighth interpolation that we are going to be discussing soon in this National Assembly. And also this information that this is the third interpolation in our country against the government, against the whole government. Interpellation was filed against the government of Anton Rop and the government of Janez Drnovska. Today, the President of the Government, Mr Miro Cerar, who said that the allegations were unfounded, responded to the allegations contained in the interpretation of the work and responsibility of this government. He said that the country was in an economic, social and political crisis at a time when another government led the government; and that bad loans had accumulated then and not now under this government, so not today. Of course, I agree with this finding of our Prime Minister. In fact, we spent more than we should, and this brought us into trouble; and because of these problems, we were threatened by a threesome. Today this threat is gone; it is no longer due to this government. We have a steady economic growth that needs to be maintained and sought to further increase. I would also like to draw attention to what has already been said several times today, namely the fact that unemployment has decreased, that youth unemployment has also been reduced in particular, by the 50,000 jobs that have been received by young people over the past two years. That's very encouraging information. In addition to all these problems that the government has faced and has solved, it has also faced the problem of the refugee crisis, which it must say has been solved or successfully resolved, even with the help of charities such as the Red Cross and the Karitas. Of course, this matter is still not completely resolved and we do not know when many refugees will appear again at our borders and ask for asylum in our country or Europe. That is why this government is still preparing measures with which it will be able to resolve the matter at that time. In my debate, I would also like to draw attention to the important legislation that has been adopted recently, which solves certain problems, particularly in the judiciary, if I mention justice first. It is very important that this government or the Minister of Justice strives to shorten the time taken to resolve judicial proceedings and to prevent a number of court proceedings from abusing. And here are the very important changes to the laws. One important thing, in my opinion, is that the statute of limitations will not continue at a time when the perpetrator is or is persecuted on the run. In this way, many have solved the problem, thus avoiding the hands of justice. A key is the proposed amendment of the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, where these things will be recorded, as I said, in favour of a swift and effective trial. I would not now touch on other laws, but I would say that I am joining the debate and the indications that Mrs Jasna Murgel, a respected colleague, had in her debate on this matter. I would also like to draw attention to some important laws adopted by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Here I would mention in particular the Smoker Service Act, which we have adopted after long-term efforts and coordination and has changed this service, is governed by the licensing system for the operation of the chimney service. It would then also point to a comprehensive overhaul of spatial, construction and environmental legislation. Respected and respected, I would like to draw attention to another important point, namely that in this coalition we have been able to make an effort to supplement the third chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that everyone has every right to drinking water; that water resources are publicly good at managing the country; that water resources serve as a priority and sustainability; and that they are non-profit. Water is a common source of human survival and public goods, so access to it must be a fundamental and general right of all. We have adopted this amendment of the Constitution without the support of the parliamentary group that has tabled this interpretation. I'll say – I'm sorry. I would like to conclude my debate with this. Finally, allow me to inform the President of the Government and the distinguished ministers and ministers that I appreciate your work and that I support you in your efforts. I estimate that this interpretation is unnecessary and that it is primarily intended to hire a government with unnecessary debates with the aim of not being able to carry out its tasks at this time, not being able to deal with the things for which it was elected; this is to lead the country or briefly – rule. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good work! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u187	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Let Mr. Ivan Prelog and Mag be prepared. Alexander Kavčič. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u188	Good evening, everyone! Everyone I've woken you up right now, good morning. Why is it necessary, even this interpretation, which is, for all those who have forgotten, a constitutional category? To remind you why you were elected, ladies and gentlemen; for you have been elected by your oath of consistent respect for law, constitutionality and legality, ethics, morality and responsibility, and security. And you won't believe it; at these exact points, you've gone up like an old station. Ladies and gentlemen, I publicly accuse you of violating the Constitution. And don't make excuses for legal ignorance. A constitutional lawyer is at the head of the government. A week ago, you adopted the unconstitutional budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, because if you respected the constitutional norm – fiscal rule; you should form a body that would give a binding opinion in this process. You didn't name him. You have consciously accepted the unconstitutional budgets as the basic acts for the work of this country. More; everything you have done about migrants is not only illegal, it is also unconstitutional and contrary to the international acts that bind and respect the state of Slovenia. And they must be taken into account by the Constitution itself directly. Not only have you unlawfully and unconstitutionally allowed over half a million people who would not legally have this right; even what you are now doing by importing migrants by quota is not in line with the legal order that binds our country. For if the standards of our and foreign laws and international acts were consistently respected, then all those who come to Italy should seek asylum there because it is a safe country. And only after Italy's decision would we have the rights that they belong to as asylum-seekers. But it is not that they are transported around, and there is nothing else to be done about it, but that under the adhering of some false humanism, there is actually a left-wing change of the electorate body; and that of the whole countries. Young people, because of their lack of work, because of their danger, because of all that they bring, are going abroad; you are importing migrants. This is really what is not only our problem, it is the problem of the whole of Europe, the European Union. But for what happened to Slovenia, you're responsible. You are in violation of the Constitution, international regulations and laws. And you're violating human rights. You have been alerted to the constitutional practice of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights; I have read several decisions here. You've been cheering at it. Once again, there is a constitutional lawyer at the head of the government, so you are consciously violating human rights, which is an unprecedented disgrace. You are in violation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, even those in favour of children, such as education, because the Constitutional Court wanted to give equal opportunities to children from poorer families. You knowingly violate them, you break them for a year, you break them for a long time. There has been no response by this time to any of these observations, ladies and gentlemen, to any of these facts that the violation of the Constitution, constitutional order and international regulations is a constitutional lawyer at the head of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. How, I ask him publicly, he will now stand before his students and say that we will have to respect the Constitution. They will say, "Mr Cerar, because you, as Prime Minister of the Government, have proposed budgets without meeting the constitutional standard, i.e. unconstitutionally, in an unconstitutional way. What will he then say?Oh, my God! I'm asking him publicly. So if you have broken the principles of respect for the rule of law, human rights, constitutionality and legality, let us look a little further at how ethics works. Let's go back to the migrants again. A man, an employee, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, worked for 40 years and received 400 euros a month. Migrants come here, costs which are, of course, exposed to taxpayers, 800 to 2,000 euros per month, if they are minors. That's your calculation. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, what else does this have to do with ethics?Oh, my God! It's an unprecedented shame. An even greater shame is what you have done for your pyar. NGOs have warned you that 30,000 Slovenian children are under poverty and cannot even afford to go to sea. And what did you do in the government and the ruling coalition? You dragged migrants to the sea to take pictures with them of you being a multicult; the children stayed at home. Sorry, it's political crime not to say anything worse. Our citizens and our citizens should always have priority, especially when it comes to children. After all, we are also bound by the International Conventions on the Rights of the Child, which are always the interests of children in the first place; in the decision-making of all and all institutions, including parliaments and also the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But you don't respect it, so you're in violation. Let's keep going. When you mentioned one of your principles – expertise. What is the expertise, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of foreign policy? You have entered into an arbitration agreement where the proper conduct of the foreign ministry could be prevented by some preventive and possibly some other political action, or at least significantly mitigated the consequences that have arisen; this was a strategic issue for Slovenia. And when it comes to elections, please, with what argument you've come up with. What has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia done with the help of its Embassy in Berlin, ladies and gentlemen? Are you proud of that? At the LGBT parade, a gay parade in Berlin you sent a LGBTQ truck to activists, jumping around dressed in a Ljubljana dragon with one naked board on its shoulders and wearing a Never Trump banner. And today, those who have worked on the shoulders of taxpayers, beware, the government campaign for elections in a foreign country, which is already an unprecedented diplomatic scandal on its own; in particular, because Ambassador Marta Kos also welcomed together, you want to take pictures with Mr Trump. And you say – he called us. He thus proved to be a wonderful diplomat; you have proved by your conduct that you are not a diplomat, that you have no idea of diplomacy, and that you are doing developmental damage to our country. Because you don't think if he's called you now that all this is forgotten. Or simply put, when it comes to state-of-the-art, ladies and gentlemen, you are neither Masters nor Masters. Then let us see what your responsibility is. If someone in this government steals a patch, they're at work; if they steal some electronics, they can stay there. If you make a few tens of thousands of euros, it's best that year. If the biggest strategic project for Slovenia in the foreign policy area is being instigated, it is untouchable. And that's your responsibility. Simply put, this government, ladies and gentlemen, specialises three of Murphy's laws; whatever they tell you, they always tell you about money. Dr. Cerar said this government is green. Yes, given that the bills are green, especially when it comes to dollars, in this part I would agree with him. The second Murphy law; the most highly eloquent words are usually followed by the most subdued interests. So much for your talk about the social and social state, as it appears in the case of Slovenian citizens, I have already said against migrants. And Murphy's third law, which is certainly the most significant; when he takes possession of the government, he is not a secure citizen, not his property, not his money, not his life. Today, it was said that when it came to migrants, the government took care of security. I ask you nicely, provenly, there is no longer any doubt here, there were at least 8 terrorists across Slovenia, who were then directly involved in the preparations, in the conduct of terrorist actions. And for more than 10, he's still being investigated at this point. The German estimate is that they would pass through Slovenia about 150. This is an assessment of their secret service, you can check. So much for the safety you care about. And if we respect these three Murphy's laws, ladies and gentlemen, don't be surprised if there is an increasing presence among people of one winged woman, saying that in these weeks the whole of Slovenia is talking about some scary clowns who scare young and old after different ends of Slovenia, but they can't find their origin. What if we followed the money and looked at the government palace?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u189	Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Alexander Kavčič and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! They say there are two ideal governments — one in Utopia and the other in El Dorado. For understandable reasons, our government is not among them, but it is thanks to this government to stabilised finances, to the collecting economy, to reduced unemployment, to exemplary security and to the positive trend of most indicators. In all of this, there is a worrying negative demographic picture, which I think is largely influenced by mutual relations, an atmosphere of fear, mutual accusations and so on. But it's certainly not this government's fault. Let me finish with the title of Shakespeare's comedy Much ado about nothing. This is a comedy about court plots, which is translated: Lots of noise for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u191	The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič. Get ready, Mr. Jean-Mahnič. Mr. Alexander Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u192	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In 2014, so two years ago, after the government of Mira Cerar took over the leadership of this government, we were in a crisis, we were in an economic crisis, we were in a financial crisis, we were in a social and political crisis. Governments have been changing like the current lane, we have been threatened by a threesome, and some have even called on it to Slovenia, so that we cannot manage our public finances on our own. When did bad loans build up? When did the bank hole start? Then, in 2014 and before. The budget deficit was twice as high as it is today. We had high unemployment. Where were we saving back then? We've been saving mainly on investment. Reform, but serious reforms were out of the question. The social dialogue was interrupted and many other things were happening. It was a dream then, not now. After presenting the interpretation against the government, it is clear that there is nothing wrong in this country. But it has to be stressed that it's the other way around. And the fact that most of the funds have been paid in this government's mandate in the last ten years for co-financing projects from the European Union; that the number of unemployed is first under 100,000 years after the year 2016 is 260% higher than in 2014 and thus savings in budget spending. For the first time in ten years, more resources are allocated for the purchase of new uniforms, protective and protective equipment and police rolling stock. We have stopped the trend of falling funds for the defence sector. For security in the broadest sense, the government will already provide 16% more resources in 2017. And let me touch myself with three points that are important to stress, this migratory wave, which has been talked about today. And these three points are that with this wave, with these migrants, for the first time, we were humanitarian, we were solidarity with other countries. And most importantly, we've provided security for everyone. Therefore, it is important that I thank myself once again in this place, perhaps you share with me the other colleagues, the police and the waxes who have performed a very important and difficult task in those difficult times and, of course, are still doing it. And if I summarize in one sentence the debate of this interpolation so far, it seems somehow that our results, the results of this government, are the worst pain of this opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u193	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Ms Andreja Katič, Minister of Defence, is to prepare. Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Honourable Ministers and Ministers; respectable coalition! I went down the hall earlier, and I heard a minister talking on the phone, not the most skilled, I heard her. She communicated in the same way as Drenikova and Sekolec when they were caught listening. She said: “That’s the way they talk, that’s the kind of nonsense they say I can barely keep myself quiet. But ours are fine, ours are phenomenal, they speak really well." I'm not going to tell you which minister she's talking about, but she can answer herself whether she's answered with the President of the Government or maybe with the White Magog. She's on it to answer that if she wants to. However, I only believe that this minister, who I accidentally caught in this phone conversation, is disturbing that the opposition is going with an interpeelation. Some of you say this interpellation is bad. I can agree with you in part. This interpolation is due to what you do. And if you're doing bad things, it's logical that interpretation is bad too, because it describes bad acts. Because interpolation is nothing but what you wrote down and what we're telling you is that you didn't realize. I was happy to listen to my colleague Han, only two words I wrote down — the costume and Murgle. I don't know what costume Mr. Han was talking about. Or the costume that the Union of Communists of Slovenia wrote on, then on the next costume of the Party of Democratic Reconstruction, and then on another costume of the United List of Social Democrats, on the fourth costume of the Social Democrats?Oh, my God! I don't know what costume. As far as Murgel is concerned, he must have thought Mr Kučan, but now there is one challenge to the Minister of Defence that he will not say that we see a conspiracy constantly. Madam Minister, whether you hope, not to Mr. Han or me, but to the camera, if you are still on the polygraph, to claim or deny that Mr. Milan Kučan has never contacted you and demanded that you appoint Mr. Klemen Grošlja as Director of the Directorate of Defence Policy; and that Mr. Milan Kučan has never contacted you that the Slovenian Army has nothing to do with the celebration of the VSO 25. in June?Oh, my God! If you're hoping to get a polygraph and deny it, then I'm also saying that I agree with Mr. Han that these Murgles are just hiding somewhere. Mr Škoberne compared minimum wages, talked about real numbers. I'll talk about real numbers, too. I'll focus on the defense system. We do not think when we talk about what a breakdown there is in the Slovenian Army. If we leave 2014 when you took over the government in September. In 2015 alone, the Slovenian Army and its completeness of members of the permanent and spare composition decreased by 540 members. As regards the perfection of the peace-keeping structure, as regards the completeness of the contractual reserve – total disaster, falls; not only those who leave the Slovenian Army because of wages, because it is a difficult social situation. We are now waiting for another company to open up in Styria to lose additional members, especially in the 72nd Brigade of the Slovenian Army. As far as funding is concerned, it's already at a low level. A million 800; last year you reduced them by another 300,000. Not to mention there's no training, no field exercises, no bullets. This is a report by the President of the Republic of Slovenia, a former member or a frozen member of the Social Democrats, who wrote or simply gave him what the Slovenian Army wrote to him, so the President did not invent this, that fewer bullets were fired in 2015 exercises than in 2014. Four months ago, I was with one captain of the Slovenian Army on one shooting range at a shooting practice, firing 110 rounds. Do you know what he said to me? “Now I have launched more bullets than a nine-millimeter beret in two years in the Slovenian Army.” What kind of officers are these captains who don't fire 100 beret bullets in two years?Oh, my God! We have a professional army?Oh, my God! Here you made some graph, 16%. Do the math. At €335 million, an additional €20 million, I do not know if it is equal to 16%. We have a war 500 kilometers away; from the extreme point of Slovenia to the extreme point in the west of Ukraine is 500 kilometers. Instead of talking about serious purchases of weapons systems, we're talking about boots, uniforms to buy some bullets now. Unresponsibly, irresponsibly. 2014; 2015; 2016; 2017; You have paid €30 million in three years if we leave 2014 for the Slovenian Army. For the Slovenian Army, which is undernourished. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Han, you'll have a chance of replicating. You're selling thins now. For this reason we will now convene an extraordinary meeting, the firepower of the Slovenian Armed Forces has fallen under this government for twenty cities, we are worse than the African paramilitary militias. Now you're going to sell thin ones, patriots or weeds are either way inoperable. Three years from now, we're gonna park the helicopters. We're gonna end up in the mountains. Let's not talk about the rest of the equipment, including the basics. We only talk here about buying basic equipment. The Prime Minister of the government has made the connection to NATO, and for a long time, it has not only been about the NATO relationship, he has made a clear promise of what we will do. I'm not just attacking ministers. The secretary is limited by the resources she has. The president of the government, the finance minister, it's the ones who don't give any more money, but the president of the government goes up, says something, comes back, and that's it. Staff policy of the Slovenian Armed Forces; border date for the transition to Territorial Defence – 18 July. You have proposed that the man who fought with Ratko Mladic in Plitvice, Brigadier David Humar, be promoted to the rank of general. Thank God the President of the Republic stopped this madness and did not raise it; you sent it as a military representative to Brussels for the award. Look at the brigades, look at the colonels, they don't even know English, and you name them the highest positions; to lead the brigades, the regiments, and what I know. It's the government's defence policy. And if I express myself in the jargon of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for protection and rescue- - if the President of the Government is Dr Miro Cerar for this country a natural disaster, the whole government is a threat to national security.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u195	Ms Andrej Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Marinka Lefty and the Magi ready. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Surely this was a reflection of what we have talked about many times in Parliament, in the parliamentary session and also in the Defence Committee, since we have had 43 urgent meetings in addition to 13 regular sessions. Most of everything the Member has pointed out has already been debated many times at the Committee on Defence. And when we talk about this, no matter what, we agree that the defence department faces many problems, many challenges. But the common conclusion at all parliamentary meetings and board meetings was that this was not only the responsibility of this government; it was the responsibility of all governments in the past period. With regard to funds, this government has stopped the trend of falling defence spending, is nominally increasing it and we will have about or a little more in the coming year than was intended for defence during the Janša government during Minister Hojs' time. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the Slovenian Armed Forces and the system of protection against natural and other disasters in the past two years, when necessary, or in the event of accidents or assistance in the migration crisis, have responded in a timely and effective manner to all their thanks. With regard to the evidence of what we did at the Ministry of Defence at that time, I would like to point out the following. At one of the meetings of the Committee or Parliament, it was proposed, and at that time we replied that the proposal was unnecessary, because we are already doing the Strategic Review of Defence and the Strategic Review of Defence is completed at the Ministry of Defence. We have sent the material to inter-resort coordination; but at the same time, where measures are given, the activities necessary to ensure the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with our national interests; and which will provide answers to the question whether the organisation of the defence system and the defence capacity of the Republic of Slovenia ensures the country's response and ability to deal with future security threats and risks, and which will also serve as a basis for guiding the further development of the defence system and its capabilities in such a way that it will be able to act effectively in accordance with its mission. These findings and measures will provide a starting point for complementing normative strategic development coordination documents. At the same time, we have also prepared this act, and I have already presented a new defence law with my colleagues in the parliamentary groups. [[…]] I am aware that the Defence Act requires two-thirds of the support of the Members present; but I believe that then and because we are willing to listen to your comments and involve them in the law, the Defence Department will have such great concerns. At the same time, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army should also be sent to Parliamentary Procedure. However, as more than ten years have passed since the last amendment of the legislation, these changes have been so important that we have also prepared a new law on service in the Slovenian Army. My promise to the unions was to look together before he went to public debate before he went to public hearing; so we have a meeting to present to them in the near future. Then I am pleased that if you only accept me, I invite your parliamentary groups to look together at the final form of both laws, a new law on defence and also a law on service in the Slovenian Army. As regards the evidence of the cooperation of the Slovenian Protection and Rescue Board and the Slovenian Armed Forces, I would like to say that before I arrived at the Ministry, and also checked in the Vihra 2015 exercise, a new Slovenian Armed Forces modular group was formed, where in a relatively short time, within 24 hours it allows 750 equipped and trained Slovenian Armed Forces members to be available in Civil Protection if this is what they need. In the coming hours, however, this number may increase further. The Slovenian Civil Protection Army also participates in helicopter emergency medical care, including mountain rescue and numerous other actions. As far as personnel are concerned, we have also proposed many changes in this area. Even those solutions from the past that have already been permitted by existing legislation, but the existing rules, because of the crisis, have not been implemented, we have started to implement what has been shown in the past period. We have also concluded a series of settlements for those violations that have occurred in the past; and now we are putting an end to this. Much of this will also be regulated in the Law on Service in the Slovenian Army, the Law on Defence. We also proposed an amendment to the Staff Law in order to allow for a better transition of employees in the Slovenian Army after the end of their career in the Slovenian Army to another system. However, I believe that we will also talk more about the social situation of soldiers on Friday, and in doing so, I am in favour of the position, which has also been highlighted today, that comparable professions must also be arranged in a comparable manner, as regards the pay system. One part of the readings went to the account of crisis management and management and the critical infrastructure law. As regards crisis management and protection activities of critical infrastructure; crisis management and management is one of the government projects and runs completely according to the timeline, the Ministry of Defence is the holder, although there are several sources involved. By the end of the year or earlier, we will have made appropriate decisions for the government, and some law will have to be amended, including in the department of another ministry. As far as the critical infrastructure law is concerned, this area has been in place since 2004, when a proposal for regulation of this area has been prepared, but the government has not confirmed or prepared a new one in 2005-2008, and activities are now under way. The Interdepartmental Group has drawn up a proposal. I believe that it must be even better coordinated with the Ministry of the Interior. This is a mix of competences and then we will also refer it to public hearing and acceptance. And when we spoke in Parliament about the readiness of the Slovenian Army, we highlighted the three as the starting point. One is a strategic review, which will serve as a basis for all future changes and for the Slovenian Armed Forces to draw up further development guidelines so that what has happened in the past, that the concept of professionalisation has been prepared, has not been fully realized. Now we've done it. That after 10 years of systematic legislative change, this is the Defence Act and the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. I believe this is where we will look for consensus and come up with a common solution. With regard to the objectives of capacity for the future period, there are also negotiations with NATO, our representatives, their representatives. I think we've made progress here too. In March 2017, Slovenia will set a new set of NATO capacity targets for the coming period. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u197	Mr Janez Janša has the floor. Replica, Mr. Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you, Vice President. It's just about crisis management. It was a government wish now. Unfortunately, the theory remained, in practice this matter did not come to light. We saw this in the time of the migrant crisis when the meetings of this analytical group took place. I'm afraid it hasn't come any further. This study group then reported to the President of the Government. In the crisis, the whole system of all these ministries, which were a key body in this crisis, acted in an uncoordinated manner; each sector responded separately to this crisis. Above all, there was no state crisis centre that would respond in a coordinated and unified manner to the crisis. If you call this crisis management and management, God forbid there is any crisis, because everything is going to be a mess.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u199	A representative of the proposer shall have the floor. And Mrs. Secretary of State for Mr. Jansha. Here you go, Mr. Jansha.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u200	My friend Mahnic is right. This government is a threat to Slovenian national security. The plan destroys the work of the defence system, the Slovenian Army. This one has never been in as bad a state as it is today. Those are not my words, these are the assessments of the Commander-in-Chief, the President of the State, who said that we have an army that is incapable of defending the countries in a serious situation. Even after that warning, the government did nothing. But the time is coming when reading such messages as we have now heard will be no longer possible to deceive. Things are changing. You have 0.9% in your budget for defense. This increase you're talking about is manipulation. You have transferred some of the obligations previously at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the payment of international obligations to the defence, and it seems now that you have increased the funds; but the Slovenian Army will have none of them, nor will the other parts of the defence system. The newly elected American president recently confirmed his prediction that those who would not fulfil their obligations in NATO could not count on protection and that there would be changes. I spoke to the new National Security Advisor, General Michael Flynn, who said they meant death. Within six months, you will either change your neck dramatically and spill your ashes, or Slovenia will lose NATO's security guarantees or even NATO membership. If you threaten Slovenian membership in NATO, we will call you to account. And this responsibility has been unrelentingly recovered.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u201	Ms Andrej Katič, Minister for Defence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you. I would like to respond to Ambassador Mahnic. He wouldn't listen to me. I said that the crisis management and management project is being prepared according to the timeline. And the timeline predicts that we will complete this project by the end of this year. And we will do that as far as our work is concerned. As for Nate, I said, we are negotiating to build capacity for the next period. We are aware, but we are not the only country that does not follow commitments, a country rarely exceeds 2%. However, it is difficult in one or two years to make up for all the deficits that have been made since 2008 but we are trying. However, strategic documents need to be drawn up, and all procedures need to be drawn up, the path being mapped. It was only for the acquisition of the Patri dish until the first delivery was three, four years. Probably a lot of people know better about this than I do. Indeed, that was also the time when the contract for the acquisition of patriots was terminated and, unfortunately, the non-building of the battalion fighting group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u203	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mr Ljubo Žnidar should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you, President, for your word. Welcome, ministers and ministers with co-workers and fellow Members! In the introduction to your interpretation, you said that this government had somehow fulfilled 10% of the coalition promises or commitments it had in the coalition contract. After this discussion, I would say that you would rather not have met that 10%, because you have completely criticised everything that this government has done during this period. If you have allowed yourself a subjective assessment of 10% of the implementation of this coalition contract, I would say, according to my subjective assessment, that the government has achieved at least 50%, about 50%; because we are only halfway there; and that what it has done has done well. At least mostly good, if not great, but she was doing well. Since what the government has done well has already been highlighted by my colleagues, and you have highlighted what has been bad, I would just like to get involved because I have little time available and my colleagues would like to say something about this definition when you said that the government is poorly cooperating with local self-government, with local communities. As I come from the constituency of Kočevje, I would like to point out that this government, in cooperation with local authorities, with the mayor and with other local factors, has carried out quite a few successful projects and that our citizens are quite pleased. After 46 years, the train will return to Kočevje. This is very important for this environment, because it will relieve roads, there will be more opportunities for economic development, less danger on the roads and so on. Everything's just positive and joy at this event in Kočev, when the train arrives. And now that it is clear that this programme will be implemented in the government. The government has also approved €1.5 million for Melamine in order to further employ its workers in order to reduce the unemployment rate in Kočevska, we have adopted a state forest law, because there are a lot of state forests in Kočevska, and they can also look forward to a better development of the wood-processing industry and the exploitation of wood. The seat of this state company, which was established for this purpose, is also located in Kočev. In short, local self-government and this government are working well for citizens as well as citizens. In doing so, I'd jump to another area, one that's very tantalizing for me, that's social. In doing so, I would like to commend Minister Anjo Kopač Mrak. I am glad that she has drawn up a law that will correct the injustice that they have committed, which they themselves have confessed. This is very positive, they said that they felt guilty or that a mistake was made at the time when they could not obtain the protective allowance because they wanted to protect their property. Now this is withdrawing, so that these poorer pensioners can get back a protective supplement and thus alleviate their problems. At the same time, I would like to call on the Minister of Finance not to interfere with the adoption of this law. I've heard that the Ministry of Finance is not excited about the adoption of this law, I don't know, maybe the Minister of Finance will explain it. And what do I want this government to do as soon as possible? To adopt a law on the demographic fund, to finally have it, to finally have a law on long-term care; and to regulate the health situation. At the end of the day, there was another question or controversy about Mr Gorenak's opinion, who wanted to ask the Prime Minister why the government had put a law on foreigners in the drawer. Well, my comment is, but I am very glad that the government has put this in the drawer and that it will be in the drawer for a long time; until these basic dilemmas that some of us have in this law are resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I'm glad to be able to respond to that. The law states that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that there are so many migrants in Slovenia that we can no longer provide them, then the Government of the Republic of Slovenia closes the borders. I'll be very happy when about 50 migrants break into your yard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u207	Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Simon Zajc be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues! For several hours now, we have been discussing what the government has done, what it has not done, how much it has done wrong, how many mistakes there have been, what we have written down and what has not been accomplished. To be very honest, it must be acknowledged that there is something that can be criticized; for a number of these there are also objective reasons why something has not been done and also realized in a way that has been planned or recorded. And it pisses me off in person, too, when I think of some of the moves, to some of the steps of individual ministers. I can't remember the second track, I can't remember some human resources solutions and so on. But if I look below the line, I realize that in some areas the steps were too small, perhaps too slow. However, I am critical, and I am also very much concerned with the failure of our colleagues; I am not critical because I would like to harm this government, this coalition, even less, of course, the country. But especially because I expect some solutions and smart steps to be made, despite all of this. And I believe these positive movements are happening. Indeed, there have been many problems in all these years. Something from today, something from yesterday, something from the beginning of our country. And the economic crisis has further deepened many. And that's why there are really important challenges ahead of us. There are also a number of concerns that we may not devote ourselves to at times. There is no doubt that we do not have enough confidence in the rule of law to find the right or effective solutions to prevent corruption, which is a major problem in our country. And all too many are those who literally steal from the pockets of the poor. And that's why we have less health care, so we have less social services, so we have less education, less public education. And these are the problems that require a priority solution. It would be difficult to say that we could not have done more in specific areas. But we can say this all the time, always and all the time, not just with the government; with ourselves, wherever we work, we can be so self-critical that we can say – we could do even more and save more pressure. It is also painful that to this day, virtually none of those who have caused this country much damage have responded to a billion - dollar bank hole; and that is why many are angry. I believe that between us, and even more so among those who accompany us, they listen and have chosen us. Above all, I am convinced that we should do more for those who are most exposed — given that we are doing better and that certain movements have been made — for those who are the poorest. I have to say, we've really been in the Desus party a lot of times. It is often obvious to us that we are involved in various governments, that we are guilty of what has not been done, especially for the vulnerable, whom we most often defend and expose. We receive these criticisms from all sides, including those we advocate, and also from your side, which you see too little has been done in this government. We are trying to find the right balance because we are fully aware that as a country we are still in debt and that we are also responsible for maintaining some stability in the area of public finances. It would be irresponsible to demand what obviously needs a little more time; but we are still pleased that important movements have been made within this government. There are several areas where we can still boast, and it would be very unfair to argue that, despite the more favourable circumstances in the countries around us, this government is not the one that has contributed to greater economic growth, adequate security in the country, greater interest of foreign investors, greater interest in Slovenia in the field of tourism, as well as in the areas we advocate. But it is important to know that this government, like any government, is faced with great dilemmas and priorities. And it's probably not hard to guess that all of a sudden we can't. If we make sure that the police are better equipped, if we try to ensure better conditions for the military, then we probably can't make sure that wages are at the same time at the appropriate height and so on. I'm running out of time. We're set up with an interpellation of some kind of mirror, and I don't see any problem with that. It may even be right; but the picture we see in this mirror is not distorted in my opinion and is not black and white. And I think that this government can be proud of certain achievements. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar. Time's up. We have three other debaters: Mr Ljubo Žnidar, Mr Simon Zajc and Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u210	Dearly beloved, since I have very little time, I will not be able to touch my infrastructure base. And yet, a few sentences. As much praise for the government as I have heard today from the Korean Members, Mr Kopmayer and Mr Ranc, I have not heard from the National Assembly. But I must say that I am not from Koroška, I am a little lower, from Savinja Valley, but I am not so pleased; for the third development axis in the lower part of the A1 motorway to Velenja is not spaced. For two years, the government has been insisting on placement, even though it does not have the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture. Then the section Velenje–Slovenia Gradec does not make purchases, no technical documentation is made. Is that a reason for pleasure? I don't think so. I listened very carefully also to the premiere; almost as you would hear the bell of the Ljubljana capital: I will, we will, we will, we will, we will say it sixty-six times. [[…]] Twenty-six times.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u211	Mr. Simon Zajc, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At almost every session, no matter what the darkness is, one thing appears, even today it is at this point; it is a bank hole. At this meeting, we had a partial report from the commission investigating the bank hole. That's good. I would like to be able to read in the final report how much of this hole was dug up by the loans that the borrowers had secured with shares that they had not yet had; but they were going to buy with this money. As this commission is supposed to investigate political responsibility, this conclusion will seem very interesting to me because you have enacted this right under the SDS and it will be possible here to draw some parallels with political responsibility. The chairman of the commission also uses this SDS-style commission to discredit certain people. What do I mean? I'm thinking specifically of Mr. Zunich. Mr Logar had it all the time during these two years, or slightly less, to call the commission and face it if he really believed and if he really believed that Mr Zunič was doing anything wrong. However, he did not do so, nor did he lodge any complaint against him, because he cannot, because there is no basis for it, because Mr Zunič acted well and legally. But it's being used by this committee to discredit him today. In the interpretation, we can also read that the government is acting unlawfully, against the law, while the Slovenian Democratic Party just wanted the committee, whose vice-president I am, to convene a meeting which is contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the laws. Of course, your President, despite the fact that, contrary to Article 120 of the Constitution and Article 12 of the General Administrative Procedure Act, he did so. At this meeting, our working body is expected to assess the matter that is still going on, the procedure is still ongoing, to interfere with the independence of the body that runs this procedure; but this is not a problem. It was not a problem for the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time because it was a topic, it was the award of the concession granted during the time of your government. If I looked through the law, I could say that in a very interesting and original way. But that wasn't a problem for you back then, but there's a lot of other problems when it's not about you. With regard to agriculture, it is also clear to us that farmers are increasingly being burdened by various bureaucratic obstacles; of course, that is not true. We're removing them. Our government no longer requires farmers to keep books at a certain level. It is absolutely voluntary, this obstacle has been removed. Intensive cultures will no longer need accounts from the new year. This bureaucratic obstacle has been lifted. A smaller volume of first processing is considered to be a basic agricultural activity and no additional activity will have to be opened. This obstacle has been lifted. We're working on removing the barriers. In the Public Procurement Act, we have allowed farmers to add their crops to public institutions in a certain percentage and there is no need for public procurement to do so. We have seen that the government is underworked for new jobs, so that we do not invest in the economy. Let's say a few days old case, the government's decision to grant the Municipality of Slovenska Bistrica aid to extend the Impol industrial zone to EUR 2.1 million. What will this result in? In new jobs, this is an incentive to the economy, this is what we are obviously not doing; but we are doing it weekly. More anti-corruption. We're finding more and more corruption. This year's comparison with last year's discovery was almost 100% higher. Most of all because of taking bribes – 216% more discovered actions – due to the direction and priority given by our minister. Illegal acceptance of gifts – 137% more; illicit giving of gifts – 83% more, taking advantage of illegal possession – 78% more. We work, we work against corruption, we work for a small man, we remove obstacles and we move on; even though that bothers you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u213	Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear President! Since it has been said earlier that, as President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I am in breach of the Constitution and certain laws, I am interested, Madam President, in why you have allowed me to convene that meeting which was convened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if your fellow Member of the Party of the Modern Centre considers that she has been invoked against the Constitution and against the law. If she was against the Constitution, why didn't you act? If it was all b. p., please tell the Member of your party to apologize to me; because, unlike this government coalition, which violates the Constitutional Court's decisions, I am not in violation of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u215	Now we have two different assessments and I wouldn't judge, actually I can't. You know very well what my procedural options regarding the reference of any parent’s working body are — none. I will not go into this debate, two assessments are given as part of the political space. I'm not even gonna say anything. Both of you have said your part, you've tried to give a procedural opinion, answer another, let's say a procedural abuse. But nothing more than I can answer that I don't control what refers to individual parental bodies. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural for the same thing? Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u216	Mr President, if you don't have a chance to do anything, then I wonder what you're doing in your workplace; that's good-for-nothing. Dear President, since it has been obvious to me that I am in violation of the Constitution, please investigate which article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia I violated when I convened a meeting of my mother's working body. I believe that, as Head of the legislative branch of the Authority, you have the opportunity and responsibility to act if Members of this national assembly, i.e. the legislative branches of power, believe that individual presidents not only violate legislation, the Slovenian legal order, but we violate the supreme act, i.e. the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As President of the National Assembly, please investigate where I violated. However, if I have not infringed, I expect an apology from a certain Member. Because he is so mutilating someone that he has violated the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but I do not allow it; noting that I was a proponent of the interpretation, which was based on this – a violation of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. But I don't allow double standards, not even on a personal level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u217	What I can do and what I'm going to do, because I have to do on official duty, I'm going to investigate the alleged violation and what's supposed to happen, and I'm going to define myself. That's all I can do. But you know, in the very process, I can't do anything because the presidents of your mother's labor bodies are autonomous. All I can do is assign the matter to a certain parental working body; and this is it. Moreover, only when the President of the parent’s working body does not do so himself will he convene an extraordinary or any other meeting when a specific act comes into consideration. Now let's get on with it. The word is from Dr. Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! Words, words, words. This was an interpretation meeting of the big words of our colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Such a session, which reminded me of a human proverb that says – It is better to say nothing than nothing to say. At the same time, today's session was also a meeting of words that spoke about actions, results and a responsible vision for the future. This is what we have been talking about, Members of the coalition, and this is what the government has been talking about. She was talking about responsible, good policies for the future. She talked about why and how Slovenia would become competitive and become competitive; in the economic field, in the field of knowledge, in the field of development, in the field of human care, in the environment. In his role, which he also takes over in the international space. We talked a lot about it, showed a lot of what we've done, and we've committed ourselves to what we're going to do. And I believe that this is also why the citing of today's interpretation, the Slovenian Democratic Party, was unable to prepare for an additional proposal for a decision to interpret the work of the Government of Slovenia or an assessment of the work of the Government; but it came with some content of the proposal for a decision copied in the preamble to the Coalition Agreement, in which the situation was summarised before this coalition started working. He copied the text on which the Presidents of the coalition political parties were supposed to vote and had already given their commitment with their signatures in September 2014. About this, about such a fiasco, about such a farce, you are able to conclude this great story, the great event that you wanted to make today for our citizens and for our country. It's a disgrace, a disgrace to the Institute of Interpellation. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u219	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u220	and shame for what responsibility and commitment you give to your citizens and citizens. [[…]] What is our commitment — and so much more so — is that it must be because we are the only ones who can move on — is that we will be responsible for continuing to use the words we give, even by our actions. This is a vision, this is the future of this country, this country and people deserve it. And no more and no more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u221	We are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and to a representative of the motioner for interpretation. As a representative of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u222	Dear Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens! We are witnessing a series of interpretations by the opposition, in particular today's proponent – the Slovenian Democratic Party. Interpolation for interpolation. It is true that less and less time and energy is going on and on, rather than spending this time and energy on useful work for citizens and citizens. The government and the coalition respect the democratic process, so we're here, so we're answering your questions, but what do we hear from you?Oh, my God! In 16 hours of debate, I have not heard a single good, forward-looking, constructive proposal from our country; but it is always something that is backwards. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u223	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u224	I see you're upset. May I continue? When we gave you these coalitions and supported the achievements of this government with objective data today, you simply ignored it all the time. You don't want to see anything that's good; but you see everything that's bad. And that's why you have to look back. Who was it then?Oh, my God! What governments have been there, or have they helped to bring Slovenia into crisis?Oh, my God! You compared the work of the current government with some data from 2005, 2007 and so on, which is totally inappropriate. This government, which I run, took over the mandate in 2014. You cannot measure the work of our government with ten years ago, but since we took over this country in a crisis for which you, forgive me, are also responsible. We're probably all responsible in this country, but some are more, some are less. And I'm sorry that you don't want to see it done, that you don't have any positive spirit in you, to say something good, something bad. Every time they ask me if previous governments have done something good for Slovenia; yes, of course they are. Everyone's done something good, and they've done something wrong. We have to admit that. But you don't see one good thing about what we're doing today and here. And most unusually, objectively measurable data of the profession, statistical offices, foreign institutions, domestic institutions prove it to you, prove it to everyone; nothing helps. Okay. We have certainly argued and proved that the findings of the interpolation are unfounded. And I wanted to see if we had such an empty debate on this side that at least in the end there might be some conclusions that make sense that we would at least discuss them. But this conclusion, as Ambassador Simona Kustec Lipicer has found, is one major disappointment. It's a big disappointment. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u225	Now, now. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u226	I understand you're laughing at yourself, because, sorry, it was pretty well said why this disappointment. I'm not going to repeat this because it's almost absurd for me to have to explain to anyone why this decision you're proposing is pointless and even worse. Of course, you also use certain information that is not accurate, personal discrediting of people without evidence, without any arguments to hold. You're just saying some facts about me, about someone else, you're creating some connections that don't exist, the conspiracy theory that I really don't want. [[..]] I know you can do better. I understand you're as critical as the opposition and then you're overreacting a little bit about this stuff, but that's not where we're supposed to go. We need a different political culture — one based on facts when we talk; one based on some decent behavior; not one that you are demonstrating today. One who respects an interlocutor, also a rival, and who also seeks connections between us. In this way, as you deal with these six successive interpolations and many times with other actions of yours, this way do not build integration, cooperation; but refuse. And I'm sorry about that. I hope we can work better together in the future. For today, let me say that we are in the coalition, that the government has shown and proved that we are doing well, that we are still facing great challenges, that we must do much more, but that we are going in the right direction. We are going in a direction that will give some sustainable development to us and future generations, that we want to modernise the country, that in the spirit of time, which translates into this world, present in this world, be an open country; at the same time, to ensure the human rights and security of our citizens and, above all, their well-being. It doesn't go as fast as people want it to go as I want it to go. Everyone would like it to go even faster, but every step we take goes in the direction that we want. And these steps will also slowly give those results to which we have committed ourselves to achieving them throughout the mandate and, of course, to continue together, I hope, later. Let me finish. We came from a time of crisis with this government. The facts prove that. Like I said, we have the tasks we've set ourselves, and we're going to do them. However, I wish that we could communicate at a higher political level in the future and that we could be more constructive and more coherent. For if we work together, we will do much more and better for our citizens than if we deliberately trigger artificial conflicts and conflicts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u227	Before it is procedural, I will continue to find one fact that you really do not behave properly in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I'm ashamed of you. As president of the National Assembly, I'm ashamed that you can't listen to an interlocutor. Listen. And that you must enter into the word. That's not what the others do. That's a fact. This is a fact that I find as President of the National Assembly. And that's what I can figure out. I hope that no one will follow your example and that this way the younger generations will not learn what democratic behaviour is in Parliament. Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you very much, President. I was silent and listened very carefully to the Prime Minister. That's very thoughtful. However, I asked him in the debate, this is now the conclusion that I cannot tell the other whether he went to and communicated with Mr Kučan at the time of the establishment of the Modern Centre Party. The president attacked me. He looked at me and said there were some insinuations, and he looked at me. Thank you, Mr. President. You answered me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u229	I take it you're abusing the procedure to find out some facts. At the same time, I remain in my opinion that you are falling into the word, because I myself have warned three times, four times, five times; but you have not ceased. Mag. Branko Grimes has a procedure. I'm sorry I didn't see you first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. The President of the Government wanted a decision, a proposal that would be aimed at the future. Allow me to offer such a proposal, which would also allow us to conclude this meeting with a view to the future in the best possible way. Before I do that, a few words. Dear Dr. Cerar, you are a constitutional lawyer. I've done a lot of exams with you. When you weren't here, I counted a few things from your field, from the point of view of constitutionality. This is an apparent violation of constitutional law and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by your government when it comes to non-compliance with the fiscal rule when it comes to migrants, when even international regulations that bind Slovenia and apply under the Constitution apply directly when I count violations of human rights, such as the anti-constitutional withdrawal of the term of office of a member of the National Assembly to Mr. Janez Janši [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u231	Procedural proposal?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u232	If you'll excuse me. Then I counted violations of the Constitutional Court's decisions, even to the detriment of children. You're a constitutional lawyer. I also listed the inexperts, such as the failure of the arbitration agreement, the government's agitation against Trump at a gay parade in Berlin, and I have listed how it is with responsibility in cases directly linked to this government. And on the basis of all this, I've heard that everything that's been said here is irrelevant. As a constitutional lawyer, I hope you are aware that this is still very important what has been said today; and that these are facts that no one can deny. Therefore, with a view to the future, I ask you to accept my proposal for a procedural proposal for an appropriate, forward-looking conclusion of this meeting and to withdraw immediately as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with your government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u233	The procedural proposal shall be submitted to the President of the National Assembly. Once again, I find it was an abuse of the procedural proposal. Apparently, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, you are trying to continue the debate in the same way because you are running out of time. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic. But this time I really want it to be procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u234	It'll be procedural. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It shall be designed in a procedural manner for the process or for the conduct of the sitting. Previously, you said that the Slovenian Democratic Party or its Members are behaving unworthyly to laugh, we are jumping into words. Mr President, I do not want it to be in this House as a morgue to sit on chairs with dark, serious faces like a totalitarian state assembly and just listen to what the President of the Government or anyone else in the coalition or opposition is saying to us. It's normal and logical for you to laugh at times, to say something, to jump into someone's word. And my procedural proposal is for you, although this session is already late, to see the British Parliament's session on television at a time; and not just to watch Russian dum-dum meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u235	The text as the last speaker is also given by a representative of the proposer. [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u236	Mr President, you have been elected to this Parliament as I have. We were both Members of Parliament, so I urge you not to speak for me, and do not apologize to anyone on my behalf. Just do it on your own. But I'm going to say something, and I'm ashamed to have someone as president of the National Assembly who's taken someone else's term against the Constitution. I am ashamed, too, and I hope that there will never be, and never, in this national assembly of someone, including the younger generations, who will ever do something like you and all the coalition together. And please, President, this is my procedural proposal, you speak for yourself; you have much to say and many times you will have to apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u237	Your procedural proposal after the apology has been rejected. Mr Janez Janša is also represented as the last speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u238	We have been waiting here all day for the President of the Government to answer the very specific questions raised in the interpretation and in my introduction. Instead, we awaited an 8,5-minute lecture on ethics and had to, which we listened to years ago, whenever he came forward on any occasion. Ethic lectures and we had to listen to a man who runs an illegal government based on a stolen election that won an electoral campaign where he only once faced his rival and then imprisoned his rival for injustice. Today, yesterday, the day before yesterday came offers of various media to confront, I said at everything – yes, with joy. The Prime Minister of the Government, or so-called President of the Government, rejected this and has not answered any questions today; however, there have been many questions. It is true that some of the government have responded to some of the obvious that some of the answers have explained certain incorrect arguments that have been made in the interpretation, that they have occurred somewhere, that I will not say to the convergence of views, but to the clarification of the facts; and that there has been, at least in part, a productive debate in this part. Most of the questions addressed directly to the President of the Government were not answered. And what was done in the end, I'm sorry, I don't allow that. We are not your students in Law School, lecture them about ethics and must if anyone else believes you; not us. There are currently 28 Member States in the European Union, none of these countries are headed by the Prime Minister of the Government, who is there because he has stolen elections that he has won in an unfair manner; and coalitions that have then taken the mandate in an unconstitutional manner. And for the President of the National Assembly, this is a minor crime, rather than someone commenting on the debate in Parliament. See sometimes translations from the British Parliament, where democracy has existed for several centuries; Australian, Canadian and so on; not just jugofilms to watch where no one has commented. We don't allow that. The talk was also about what kind of apparatus we have when we filed this interpolation. That's us and a couple of professional associates. You've got 60 thousand people. Here all day long, there has been only one vote, how many questions we have asked, what an obstacle to the work of the government this is. One of these employees in the state administration will receive a question from the Member States to answer. It's a terrible burden. You don't answer, it's written by other employees who look at the statistics. These parliamentary questions are raised on the basis of the proposals of the electorate and the electorate you are obliged to answer – citizens and citizens. This debate has shown that if an external observer were to follow this debate, perhaps even a small part of the government and what is happening with us, he would notice one criterion on which he would believe that the government works as you have explained – excellent, full-time, full-time, full-time, full-time; and that he is achieving excellent results. These criteria, or data, on the basis of which someone could make such a wrong impression, are supplements for preparedness. If this government were to be assessed by means of stand-by supplements, then they would be told that it is a government across the board. I'm afraid that's not the case. We have a government that talks about unity, cooperation, tolerance, morality, ethics and so on, and in fact it has a drastic division into first-class and second-class. Clearly, even from your conduct, some benefits come from bureaucracy, but you are the government of the public sector, employees of the administration that are in the trough, producing additional procedures, different registrations of bikes with engines, whatever anyone remembers, just that there are a few more red tape, a few more obstacles, what additional benefits. You will benefit greatly from a quasi civil society that is on the taxpayer's shoulders, such as Transparency International, with which you will sign an agreement tomorrow, who will oversee corruption, and in fact it was established by the most corrupt people in Slovenia. I think he's gotten 100,000 euros out of public funds in the last year, and so on. Businesses of manufacturers of various studies on the studies you are ordering are flourishing without this being done. Those who receive various allowances and privileges that do not come from work under the pension system are satisfied. Very pleased are the causes of the bank hole; in the cabinet of the President of the Government, the person who is concerned about not taking any action you are taking is going against the fact that there is indeed some responsibility to be identified. Since apparently at least one good part of the government coalition's parliamentary groups is not at the same wavelength, it is also likely that it did not have any of this bank hole, it will be interesting to monitor when it comes to the final work of the commission of inquiry, how it will break hands at that time. We also have second-class victims of this government. This is the majority of taxpayers, young people without jobs and apartments. The government boasts of export achievements. The sad export achievements of this government include the education of young people evicting from the country; instead, you import migrants through quotas. For one migrant spend three times more for one pensioner; and this is solidarity for you. You also say that migrants are people. There are people to help them in a different way. People are also citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and you are nominally the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you are responsible for them first. Secondly, many entrepreneurs who are wrapped up in one way or another do not receive any grants. Three times a year they get visits to various inspections, taxes and so on; then they see an entrepreneur in the same entrepreneurial zone, and in the same congregation, which is first-class, they get no inspection, no tax visit, no success or procurement. The second-class workers, most of them outside the public sector or outside the administration, are workers of daily migrants who are being bullied, pensioners without allowances, farmers who are not exactly in the trough or part of this SD-SLS connection, which is run by the Ministry of Agriculture. Second - class congregations are other than the richest ones; some are privileged. There is one municipality in Slovenia with which the government has signed an agreement on additional funding programmes of EUR 300 million; and this is the Ljubljana municipality, which is developing at the rate of 118 or 128% of the European average. I don't mind if you have an additional 300 million euros in Ljubljana, but we ask where these millions are also for Maribor, Ptuj, Koper, Kranj, Mursko Sobota, other cities and other regions. When will you go there and sign some agreements with them instead of just strengthening centralism? Second-rate citizens are in procedures that are mostly too long, despite the Ministry’s boasting about how they have been reduced; in particular, they use double watts — some are considered first-class and others are considered second-class. The Council is talking about the fourth industrial revolution; here we have a government that boasts that it has opened an ATM in Osilnica; we have a government that boasts that the train will lead to Kočevje. I think this route is being renewed for 12 years. Do you know when the noose line was built? It was built 125 years ago and started to be built in May 1892 and was completed in July of the following year, and was built in 13 months. They built the nomadic track within 13 months. In the 19th century, not even in the 20th century; in the 19th century, a respected government. In the 19th century. And now you are boasting that you will repeat this feat after 12 years. And this is a future view for you, the fourth industrial revolution, not that it isn't. Your success is the restoration of Kanina. Restoring Kanina is the success of our fellow Member, Daniel Krivec, who has been working on this for years. But you boast that you have dedicated a small part of the taxpayer's money, not yours, after constant requests and I don't know what. That's the situation. In short, we have a government that was founded on stolen elections, it's illegal, you're aware of this illegality, so you're trying to get it one way or another. This condition will last for as long as it lasts for you. We have a government coalition that illegally steals parliamentary mandates, we have an entire government association, which, as you say, when those you say should be respected, issue a decision, final decision, this is the Constitutional Court, you act like it's not. No one apologizes or regrets; it is easy to move forward with new faces to this trough. We have a country that steals heritage, we have an authority that steals heritage, not a government, a judiciary, almost 5,000 based wills, 20 to 30 thousand affected citizens, thousands of life-stricken citizens who have not reached the heritage that their ancestors intended for them. And what happens? The representative of the Supreme Court says that there is no point in finding responsibility; the Minister of Justice, who broke down when playing basketball with Igor Bavčar, says nothing, does not propose any action. We have proposed a law to remedy this situation. The fate of the tens of thousands affected by this stolen heritage does not move you. They'll talk to each other in court. We have a coalition that tried to steal the entire sex, but the Slovenians rejected it at the referendum. As if this did not happen, this theory of sex continues to rape the Slovenian public and children in schools. Under the responsibility of this government, young boys change into women's bathing suits and so on; I am not talking about the various totalitarian symbols that have regained their homeland rights in Slovenian education under this government. We have a government that protects those who illegally invade the e-mails of citizens and citizens. We have a government that prevents parliamentary oversight of secret intelligence services. We have a government that protects the re-establishment of the political police, the informer. We have a government that encourages even children to breed their parents in the Ministry of Labour's latest commercials. We have a government structure that protects, advocates, actually executes child theft to old parents. And then when the affected people respond when we support them, we get the impression that we're picking up political points on the kids. It is said that he who warns of this scandal is guilty; not he who caused it. And despite the court's rulings, these two Korean boys are still away from their old parents. These are also your results that you don't want to talk about, but they are obvious and they know each other. We have received a partial response from the Minister of Culture not to take the Internet very seriously. I don't know if he even knows what the Internet is all about. This answer he gave allows for a wide range of abuse and manipulation. Since we have a government that protects those who illegally hack into the electronic accounts of Internet users, we can then imagine many things. In any case, we will pay very close attention to all the moves in this direction, and perhaps this time we will propose some right to enroll in the Constitution – the right to free use of the Internet. Instead of stupidity to write down the right to reason, to stupidity or to water. And something else is very disturbing in these lectures by the coalition Members and the Prime Minister himself. Some of you, these pictures are still fresh, you participated in 2012 when Slovenia was actually in a crisis, in so-called human demonstrations, uprisings. Mr. Miro Cerar has publicly supported you. The uprisings, which were also violent; and you are telling us today that we are using a parliamentary instrument to destabilize the country. Thank you so much for such a sermon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u239	I conclude the debate on the tabled interpretation. In accordance with Article 253, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the interpellation shall be proposed to the General Assembly to adopt the decision published on the e-club following the discussion. We are moving on to a debate on that proposal for a decision within the remainder of the time announced at this point. I realize that almost no one has time to discuss it anymore, but I am still asking. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Procedurally, Mr. Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I have now read very carefully the first paragraph of Article 253 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And it says here that it's an assessment of the functioning or the work of the government. I've read this conclusion carefully, too. In fact, there is a summary or quotation from the coalition agreement of three coalition parties. And I don't see any evaluation of the government's work here. I wonder whether, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 253, we can decide on such a decision on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u241	The only one who can make a decision under Article 253 and paragraph 1 shall be the applicant. It was submitted by 18 applicants. I would not comment at this point on the fact that I do not raise a thousand procedural questions. The fact is, it is most likely that simple common sense logic applies. The applicants filed an interpolation, and they also tabled a decision that the only one can file and no one can amend it. And I believe that those who disagree with the interpretation vote against the decision; those who agree vote in favour. That's the simplest thing I can say. It would be an alternative if we did not vote on this at all. But in this case, I think we'll continue with the procedure until tomorrow morning. That's my simple answer that you all probably understand. We're voting. Why didn't you tell me about the explanation earlier? [[advertising from the hall]] No, I think you're a little bit of an abuser and you're waiting for me to trigger the case, and then you say "explanatory." I looked carefully around and around if anyone raised their hand. Who wants an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr Janez Janša has an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u242	We will, of course, support this decision, although it is a text which is literally copied from the coalition agreement of government parties. We do not create illusions that the government coalition, which has a majority here, will confirm some conclusion that the government should fulfil commitments under the Slovenian Democratic Party programme in the second half of the mandate. But we have looked at what is like in your coalition contract, which we have no problem supporting; and we have proposed this. The assessment of the situation in the country we agree with has been taken literally from your coalition contract. And also the call for the government to act by including the opposition and all the other stakeholders in the country in its decision-making process, we feel fine and have also taken this out of your coalition contract. But if you are having problems with your own agreement, which you have signed, then this is your problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u243	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? There's no more explanation. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up. Mr Uroš Prikl has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I hear a little dissatisfaction, but it still won't leave me any peace; I will explain why I will vote against this decision. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u245	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u246	I believe that many want the English Parliament and a lot of attention to the word, the shouting; but very briefly. I see no need to vote in favour of such a decision. I am part of a government coalition, or coalition Member, which adopts a coalition agreement. I think it's written well by itself. More importantly, how it is implemented. Perhaps one of us today would write it in a different way, but in fact it is a good basis for the success of the government. However, I see no reason to vote again and I deplore this coalition agreement, which I support. I will therefore, of course, vote against such a decision. However, I would expect that one concrete assessment of the situation or assessment of the work of this government will be and that we will decide on such a decision. As I say, I will vote against that decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-23-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u247	Thank you. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item as well as the 24th meeting of the National Assembly.
