ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 15th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Maruša Škopac, Mr Jan Mahnic, Mag. Ange Logar, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Branislav Rajić and Mr Ljubo Žnidar until 13:00. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 8. Agenda item — First of all, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Security Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members, with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, the Group of 11 Members and Members, with their first signed magi, is a group of 11 Members. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, good morning. The month of January is a pretty hard month. There were a lot of sharp words spoken this month, and there was a lot of conflict and a lot of empty running. Today, we all have a great opportunity to do something very concrete for people to do good for people. To increase the minimum wage for citizens only by €50 per month and thus not burden the economy. We can make it possible for development engineers who innovate and develop and actually create new jobs to increase wages and keep them at home. We can also reduce the taxation of the Christmas tree and thus allow all the citizens who are rewarded by their companies to get the biggest piece of Christmas, not to get it from the country. When we walked in the field every month in the New Slovenia Group, we met people, the economists, we heard the same word or the same wish everywhere. If you want economic growth to grow, if you want economic growth to be sustained, it is imperative to increase domestic consumption. However, domestic consumption cannot be increased in any other way than by keeping more people in their wallets, more in their pockets. Math is very simple. The law before you proposes three things: a social slipper, a development cap and a lower taxation of Christmas. In the case of social shoes, we have followed the simple logic that 3,300 euros is earned by every citizen, that this is an unspent profit, which is why every citizen gets 50 euros more net income. We put the development cap on a 4-fold minimum wage. However, the taxation of the Christmas tree has led to an analogy with the taxation of the regression. We're aware that if there's more people left, there's less country. We don't even deny it. But the government has prepared calculations that we think are very conservative, and our calculations are slightly different, and I will not go into that detail, but I will stick to what the government has charged. According to the Government's calculations, in the case of a social cop, if he was established in people's pockets, there would be 450 million more. If a development cap were put in place, people would be left with 300 million more, and if they applied a different tax on Christmas, people would be left with 40 million more. If we applied all three measures together, people would have 800 million more money left in their pockets that they could spend as they want and want. We are aware that the budget for 2016 and 2017 has been adopted, so we are responsibly proposing the implementation of this law by 1. 1. 2018, so with the next budget, which means that we still have enough time and opportunities to adjust public spending to these measures adopted. I am also sure that you will not all agree with the measures that we have proposed today to disturb some of the public financial consequences, but we should all pursue together that the growth that Slovenia promises should be achieved by all citizens and not just the public sector. In the case of public financial consequences, since the law is at first reading, it is possible [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] also adapt the intensity of individual measures. Some will also oppose the ideological development cap. I don't deny it to you, but I think that the common point of all of us is Christmas and that Christmas is our common minimum denominator that we could accept and also confirm. The law is made up of three parts, you can choose the one you want and vote for today, practically. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] You vote for people, but you can show your dissatisfaction with me, even with New Slovenia, by voting against it, but people will have nothing of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Although the bill has set objectives that can be attached to them and are in principle consistent with the Government's priorities, at the same time with concrete solutions it opens up so many substantive and implementing dilemmas that the Government assesses that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The bill seeks to address how to improve the competitiveness of the economy also through changes in the public benefits system, in particular towards reducing labour burdens. The fact is that the largest share of the labour burden in Slovenia is social security contributions, indicating that appropriate solutions must be sought in social security systems. Data show that Slovenia is 39.4% of GDP after tax burdens and contributions under the average of the European Union and 37.6 for Slovenia. However, the economic structure of taxes is quite unfavourable as it deviates from the average of European countries, due to the over-average burden of work and consumption and the under-average burden of capital and property. The data also show that the cost of working in Slovenia is significantly above average, mainly for social security contributions paid by workers. However, the proposal of the law interferes with the essential element of the social security scheme to the extent that, without simultaneous interference with other elements of the system, this is the definition of insurers, contribution rates, the mode of financing and, in particular, social security rights, according to the Government, the breakdown of the financial sustainability of the systems in the view of the Government means the collapse of the financial sustainability of the systems, while at the same time the collapse of the public finances system. It has already been mentioned that the overall financial impact is about EUR 800 million. If we look at this from the point of view of individual public finances, the proposed solutions represent around 145 million more revenue in the state budget, about 615 to 620 million less income in the pension treasury and thus for the same amount of higher government budget expenditure and a reduction in the revenue of the health insurance by around 330 million. This cannot be replaced by measures which would not prejudice social security rights. In the view of the Government, more complex, simultaneous and coordinated measures will be needed to reduce the burden of work in a number of areas that will require wider consensus. In the view of the Government, the objectives of maintaining a comparable level of social security and the sustainability of public finances should also be pursued when looking for solutions to the burden of work or ensuring a positive developmental impact of taxes and contributions. In addition to that, the Government notes that the proposal is not feasible for several reasons. In the proposal to equalise the income base and social security contributions, the applicant did not take into account the fact that social security contributions are a deductible item in determining the basis for the income assessment. Furthermore, in determining the new method of collection of contributions, the applicant did not take into account the fact that there are different procedures for collecting contributions in the sectoral legislation than for collecting income and that the taxpayers are normally two, the insurer and the employer. A vague terminology is used and is not used, is not clearly defined, and may lead to anomalies or abuse of proposed solutions. The amendments are also not adequately incorporated into the regulations governing the content for which amendments are proposed. The Social Security Contributions Act sets out the amount of contributions, does not lay down the basis. Taking into account all the above, the Government cannot support and points out, for substantive reasons, that it is impractical in practice. We therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u6	Dear President, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! Today we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Contributions Act. What are the objectives of these changes: for the first time, reduce wage burdens by social security contributions; for the second time, achieve the opening of a higher number of healthy jobs in the economy by reducing the wage burden of employees and self-employed persons with social security contributions, without increasing the burden of employers; for the third time, improve the material situation of the recipients of the minimum wage and the beneficiaries of the four average wages by limiting the payment of social security contributions down and up, and by reducing the contribution of the Christmas tree in the light of the annual holiday regression. The main solutions proposed are: the introduction of a minimum amount of income from work from which income recipients would not pay social security contributions; in addition to the establishment of a lower income limit from which contributions would not be paid, the amendment of the law also sets the upper limit of the amount of social security contributions for employers; the payment of the Christmas pay is treated in terms of contributions in the same way as the regress. The same as now with the legal provisions applies to the regression, a maximum amount not burdened by social security contributions shall also be set for Christmas. In addition, the amount of the regression which is not charged by contributions shall be determined in such a way that it is uniform throughout the calendar year irrespective of the month of payment. The fact is, dear colleagues and colleagues, that taxes are a topic that we are discussing regardless of which government is running our country. There is probably no president or finance minister who would not be happy to lower taxes and thus relieve people and the economy. However, the fact is that there is no budget revenue without taxes and there is no budget expenditure or expenditure without budget revenue. You'd probably meet someone who'd say, "Great. I'm not paying the state anything, and I don't want anything from it either."but of course it's not that simple. In order to have more or less free healthcare, it is necessary to provide more than €3 billion, for the needs of the school system more than €1.6 billion and for the pensions of our pensioners more than €4 billion per year. Today, according to the OECD, the workload in Slovenia is relatively high, mainly due to high social security contributions. According to the OECD, Slovenia is moving upwards in the load indicators for a single person regardless of income levels compared to countries that are in some way our competitors: Poland, Czech Republic, Estonia, Spain, Slovakia. Of course, the derogation is even higher in higher incomes, so it is reasonable to think about decommissioning labour costs if I say domestically, reducing contributions or taxes on wages. We have also been talking about this in Slovenia for many years. The proposal, which is ahead of us without any restrictions on public financial revenue, would reduce slightly less than €500 million. Only this is said to be adopted by this law and on the other hand it is not possible to do so on budget expenditure. With the exemption of all employer and employee contributions at the upper limit of four gross average wages, this would mean an estimated reduction in public financial revenues of around EUR 56 million. In the event of the introduction of a so-called social cap of four gross average wages for all social security contributions, but only on the employees' side would net government revenues be lower by around EUR 26 million. These last two solutions are significantly more acceptable and feasible than without any exception. Of course, there is also a need to look at the impact on the economy, which, according to my or our assessment, would undoubtedly be positive. There's been a lot of talk in the last few days about finding solutions. What we have on the table is certainly one of the possible solutions. Is she the best? Probably not. Is it real? Maybe. However, this law can certainly be fundamental in this House to do what is really necessary and what the economy is asking us to do for a very long time is to burden 13 and 14 with wages, regress and Christmas. At the time of the adoption of the budgets for 2016 and 2017, a higher VAT rate was applied as a permanent measure, which was originally envisaged as a crisis or crisis measure. At the time of the adoption of the Value Added Tax Act, it has been recorded and also repeatedly publicly and also here in this Chamber, it is stressed that the higher VAT is precisely the room of manoeuvre which will allow the government some relief for the economy and employees. We're here now when we can make this happen and actually do it and leave more in people's wallets. In our parliamentary group, we will support the draft law in this reading. To all those who have you or who have us full of mouths about how to do something for people, how to look for solutions and how to do it, I expect the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Tillen Christmas for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the proposal of fellow Members of Parliament with the first-signed Matthew Tonin, who is trying to address the collection and payment of social security contributions in a slightly different way than it is now. The SMC pre-election programme has become operational under the three key frameworks for the development of tax policy. Firstly, the restructuring of tax burdens, which provides for the gradual harmonisation of taxation of all types of work and the decommissioning of labour costs in such a way that the measure will be neutral in terms of the sum of State Treasury. This one's in progress. Secondly, improving the efficiency of tax collection, where improvements in control by strengthening the functioning of inspectors in the field have been key in the past year, improving the targeted approach, which mainly provides for the control of those who have a high risk level and the informationisation of treasury controls by introducing tax boxes. Through complementing the recovery and expansion toolkit, the financial management can now make it easier to reduce the billions tax debt. And thirdly, the de-barcation of the tax environment, which we started in the past year, among other things, by adopting the amendment of the tax procedure law. The possibility of netting tax liabilities, extending the scope of the manoeuvre to pay tax liabilities, a single invoice for espies, the possibility of binding information for transfer pricing areas and so on. This has given rise to the development of further measures to address administrative burdens in the tax area, which will be followed up in the short term. The coalition treaty of which the foundation was also a good part of our pre-election programme has allowed us to turn the pre-election promises into written commitments, and we now, as mentioned in the introduction, gradually apply them, even in the tax field. In the area covered by the proposal, in our pre-election programme, we have foreseen a reduction in labour costs by introducing a partial social cap in a way that would have a neutral impact on the measure in terms of the sum of public treasury. In our opinion, neutrality could be ensured by various measures to bring the tax targets closer to those of Slovenia, where Slovenia shows a significant deviation from the comparable countries, as the secretary said earlier, one of the opportunities is also in the green tax reform, which is probably a relatively abstract concept for a wide range of countries. But it already has a relatively important impact on our lives today. In view of the fact that two weeks ago, the head of the tax area at the OECD Republic of Slovenia declared a reference case in the area of the introduction of green taxes between all OECD members, we now have external evidence that we are already on the right track in this regard as a country. In the SMC, we are aware that the burden of work on taxes is particularly high for certain income classes, reflecting both our programme and the coalition contract. This is also confirmed by the OECD, Eurostat and other reference sources. However, it is important to be careful that it is addressed correctly, both in terms of the final impact on the taxation of these revenues and the impact of measures on public finances. In a specific case, we find that we are relatively competitive in the taxation of lower incomes. In comparison with other countries, however, the tax rate is increasing rapidly, and we agree that some of the problem is also the high taxation of contributions. Our thinking contained in the pre-election programme was in the direction of establishing a partial cap. Such a view was based on the fact that certain rights arising from the payment of social contributions are practically unlimited. Here I am referring to health insurance rights that practically do not have a limit for insurers up to the extent that someone needs health care, of course, will get them. On the other hand, pension contributions that have a limited payment are made regardless of how much an individual has paid into the system during his or her active period. [[Incomprehensible]] Recognizing that our social security system is based on solidarity, it is, of course, necessary to carry out a substantial reflection on which we are working in the SMC, and with the proposal one of these possible dimensions is also highlighted by the proposer. This area is somewhat deeper and more analytical in our Member Group, which is often evident to us, but we believe that this is one of the key steps in the process of amending tax legislation, that there is no destabilisation of the social security and public finances system to the detriment of citizens and thus to the degradation of the constitutional record that we wish to remain faithful to in the SMC. Slovenia is a social state. In addition, it will be necessary to have discussions with several social partners in order to make such changes. Now, more specifically, the NSI proposal. The measures have been categorically referred to as slippers, caps and goddesses, so that I will also use this terminology. So, sweatshirt, the exemption from the employee's contributions to the amount of general income relief, then we are talking about the cap, which would result in the exemption of the employer's contributions over four times the minimum gross wage and Christmas wage, the taxation of the additional payment in a comparable manner as is applicable to the regression, the basis to which social security contributions would not be paid up to 70 % of the average wage for the previous year. To the extent that the annual deliberative regression, which we have in Slovenian legislation, would be regarded as the thirteenth salary, the Slovenian legislation could therefore be interpreted as the regulation of the fourteenth. None of the approaches to our tax system is an essential novelty, since these are concepts that have been introduced with a slightly different view to our system years ago. It is therefore necessary to take into account the existing situation before making changes and to decide whether to keep it, supplement it or replace it. So, in the sense of the so-called copatka, we know in our tax system the compensation for transport to work, for food and other allowances and allowances that are not known in most countries or other incomes from employment are taxed with income, any other taxes, that is, urban, regional, church, solidarity and other taxes that we do not know, at least not directly and naturally with contributions. Thus, in our country, the so-called slipper was exposed for various reasons years ago as a social correction, support for workers' mobility or for other reasons, depending on content and purpose. In addition to the government regulation, there are other rules governing the level of tax exemptions. We do not pay contributions and taxes, i.e. from a certain part of the income from employment in Slovenia, unlike many other countries, so we have approached the regulation of some countries which prescribe a minimum threshold to which social security contributions are not paid. There is therefore a need to reflect on which of the approaches we would like to have in Slovenia, as the uncritical intertwining of various solutions leads to impregnable and, as can be seen from the accounts of the Ministry of Finance, also to an unstable and weakened social security system. As far as the cap is concerned, it was also introduced years ago, but, in this part we agree, not in the field of income from employment. On the contrary, for example, for an independent entrepreneur, the highest level of contributions is prescribed as mentioned above, our view of the possible introduction and operation of the cap differs significantly from that of the applicant and cannot be supported in the proposed form. Furthermore, it is appropriate to highlight an area that the applicant may have overlooked, since it is significantly less attractive. The proposed changes would have a significant impact on the destabilisation of public finances and the direct effects would be particularly affected by those for whom the proposer usually claims to defend them. There would be a reduction in pension entitlements for those who have the lowest income, as more than €600 million would be reduced in pension income, which is more than 10% of the reduction in mass according to the current situation. In order to ensure an additional transfer to the pension register, the likely large proportion of the shortfall would be at the expense of the military budget, the police, social transfers and investments, to which the applicant is usually particularly sensitive on other occasions. A basket of health services should be thoroughly depreciated, as more than €300 million is also well above 10% of the current budget of this treasury. Unlike the pension fund, there is no transfer from the budget. This should probably be followed by the substantially enhanced personal financial participation of those most in need, namely chronically ill and elderly, which are considered particularly sensitive in the SMC and also in the light of the barely exceeded financial and economic crisis, by means of the socially vulnerable groups. An increase in the income of recipients, for example, in the income of the beneficiaries of the minimum wage, at the expense of a reduction in social contributions of EUR 50, could therefore mean thousands of costs for the use of health services, which is unacceptable for this group. To the extent that we want the system to remain comparable, we should cut down substantially into the social rights of citizens and citizens, where a re-establishment of balance cannot be ensured without the simultaneous adoption of counter-measures. Otherwise, we can go back to a public financial spasm where, when the tax on salaries paid is abolished and corporate income tax is reduced before the key expenditure reforms have actually been implemented, there has been a budgetary imbalance, which we will be experiencing for a long time, due to the drastic absorption of the enthusiasm for unpopular reforms in the previous decade. The measures on the revenue and expenditure side should therefore be confirmed at the same time, as otherwise, political realities make history repeat itself and thus desire a constant political likeness and popularity at the expense of the stability of the financial system and thus a long-term benefit for citizens and citizens. Last but not least, the social security contribution measures would mean a drastic increase in the structural deficit, which, in the SMC, in view of the plan we have set up and are now implementing in the context of the establishment of balanced public finances, we do not agree. [[Incomprehensible]] Let us also point out before the conclusion the point of view of the competent Ministry of Finance in a slightly different light. The proposal amends certain articles which are either invalid or not suitable for regulating this subject as they are regulated in other articles or regulations. Given that even a proposaler coming from the legislative branch of government who is presumed to be well aware of sectoral legislation has not been able to identify precisely the parts of the law that need to be amended in order for the content of the proposed solutions to be translated into legislative provisions, this raises a question, and from this our leadership, which will have to be taken more into account by the government team. The legislation is overly complex, contradictory in many places and, as such, difficult to understand for the legislator, let alone for citizens and citizens. We place special emphasis on the Government in this place to ensure that the hyperproduction of laws and the speed of legislative procedures is substantially reduced and thus actively contributes to the emergence of transparent and clear legislation, which is and remains one of the key commitments of the SMC. On the basis of all of this, we cannot support the proposed amendment to the Social Security Contributions Act with the first-signed Matthew Tonin in the SMC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u9	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Members' Group, mag. Matthew Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Social Security Contributions proposed by the New Slovenia Group and the main objectives and principles of this Act are divided into three main groups: lowering the burden of gross wages by social security contributions, opening up more healthy jobs and improving the material situation of recipients of minimum wages and beneficiaries of wages of four minimum wages. Now, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we kind of welcome such a proposal and the amendment of the law tabled by Nova Slovenija for several reasons. The fact is that such a proposal would be expected from the Government or from the Ministry of Finance, but in a period of one and a half years we could conclude that the Government of Mir Cerar and the Ministry of Finance in the National Assembly come only by laws and additions to laws that place an additional burden on the economy and, on the other hand, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that we have witnessed, even in this mandate, a significant number of laws and additions to the laws proposed by the Government of Mir Cerar, which have added both financially and bureaucraticly to the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We have come to the conclusion that the last such measure, the tax box, is in particular a step that will make it difficult for companies to operate and the question is whether or not, in particular, how many micro and small enterprises will shut down their business as a result of this measure. If we take a closer look at the amendments and this bill, which has been tabled by the New Slovenia, we can assess that their view or this proposal for amendments to the law, according to the opinion and belief of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is in the right direction. The fact is that it would be time for the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a law, too, to adopt an order that would reduce the burden on the economy. In this bill we can see that it is going in a direction where there is no additional burden on the economy, but, of course, the net revenue that will be earned by all employees in Slovenia, whether they are employed in the economy or are employed in the public administration. The fact is that Slovenia does not have a business environment that is oriented in a positive direction. We have been able to read this in several studies, including studies from abroad, and on the one hand, it seems to me that the opinion of the Government, which it submitted, is that on average the Slovenian tax burdens are not so high, misleading. On average, when we get to real life, we see that, above all, the tax and administrative burdens in Slovenia are those that drive away foreign investors and force citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to think more about moving abroad. And the migration of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia abroad has increased over the past period from year to year. Above all, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the National Assembly must urgently discuss tax reform. The tax reform should be prepared by the Government, the Ministry of Finance, but not by tax reform, as you have already prepared, when the opinion of both the professional public and the general public was that it would have a negative impact. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that the Government of Mir Cerar think about its operation and that we might look at the case of how the state of Austria has made tax reform in the past year, where the coalition and the opposition have been involved. Today we have a nice opportunity, because this proposal came from the opposition to support this proposal of the law in this first reading, and in fact with some common powers, we are trying to make such a law that will be acceptable and will be in the best interests of both the economy and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, given the position expressed by the Secretary of State, we can expect exactly the opposite. Many times in this mandate, in those proposals, those amendments proposed by the opposition, the government fears that we will even discuss them - you will come to the committee and say that this law is not suitable for further consideration. And you used those same words, the distinguished secretary of state, today too – the law is not suitable for further consideration. I think it's very sad, because we all know that this law, even if it gets the green light today, will have no effect, no effect, but it will only give us the opportunity to correct this law. Now, whether in the Slovenian Democratic Party we agree with all the provisions proposed by the proposer or not, but we are convinced that more than half or 80% of things are going in the right direction. It is very interesting that the Government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance view this law very unilaterally. For, you have assessed, this law will in particular have a negative impact on financial revenues in the budget. They will go down, and Slovenia cannot afford to do so. But the same relationship we've always witnessed with the so-called left central governments. The left central government is those who increase taxes and taxes you see only as a function of charging the budget. In Slovenia, however, taxes should also be seen as a development function. And that is probably not possible until Slovenia gets the right central government. For example, Austria has somehow reduced the burden of the economy and employers by about €5 billion. This is what the state of Austria has afforded, and it can afford, for it also looks on the other side. If we additionally owe both employers and employees, then on the other hand, we can expect more revenue from the budget. And the government has not assessed what these tax burdens are, and social contributions would mean positive revenue to the budget. Not a word. You said to yourself, like the Fakara horses, look, this is going to cut the budget revenue by so much and so much. But never do an analysis of what this would mean by higher consumption or even possibly by opening up new jobs. I am sure and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that this change and the proposals on the one hand also ensure the opening of new jobs. They ensure the creation of new jobs, provide in particular a more satisfactory employee and, on the other hand, probably a higher development of Slovenia. Dear Secretary of State, you've operated with a number of 500 to 800 million lower revenues in the budget. I've asked you a lot of questions about what you're going to do with a $1.4 billion tax debt. 1.4 billion tax debt is in Slovenia. I do not see a single measure in your government's time that would help to reduce this tax debt. And if the government of the Ministry of Finance and FURS were to stand up, it would probably be possible on the basis of these revenues that should come into the budget and, for such and other reasons, would not come, on the other hand, be able to begin to reduce these tax burdens. The fact is that in Slovenia, wages above 5,000 euros are significantly above average as in other EU countries. And that's what added value is. Not to talk about minimum wages and regression and Christmas. If an employee in the company receives a reward because he has done his job well, because he has contributed to the development of the company, because with his work the company has contributed more taxes to the budget, the prize he receives will have to direct more than half of the gross amount to the State. And take one step further here. I'm thinking of regress and Christmas here. Slovenia is probably the only country in the world when the employer has to pay gross wages. And we all know when that gross gross piece came in. For the Chadian rule of the LDS. Today we have a nice opportunity to give the green light to this bill in the National Assembly and then to try, both opposition and coalition, to do something for the good of the Slovenian worker. Dear Secretary of State, the President of the Government walks every day with a letter to seek a solution. And it is likely also expected that ministries will seek a solution. But you in this bill are not looking for solutions, but you said this law is not suitable for further consideration, let's throw it in the trash. We see you're doing something here and you're saying something else. And that it's actually just one of your pierres. But this pear of the government of Mira Cerar and SMC is publicly seen in public opinion research. And I am sure that the voters and voters in Slovenia will probably be able to do the same, I will say draw a line under all the things you do. Dear Secretary of State, today is still an opportunity. We have a debate in the National Assembly and you can say positive and negative things, but not only, this law is not suitable for further consideration. And I am sure that today, you will probably also be asked a lot of questions, but as usual, the government, ministers, state secretaries in this National Assembly, in particular, you will not answer the opposition's questions. You won't. As already mentioned, primarily in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such a bill is necessary for Slovenia, it is essential that both the Government and the National Assembly begin to adopt laws that will burden the economy and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and that there are enough laws in this National Assembly that have been adopted or are being prepared, which are actually only extra burdensome. The fact is, Slovenian worker works around the end of July only for the country. By the end of July, we are working for the state, a respected secretary of state. Then comes the five, four months when you're actually doing the so-called. for your pocket. And with this, we cannot expect any development in Slovenia. And see, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that without a healthy economy we cannot have a positive social policy and that if you burden the economy with the pace that you have also indicated now and what is expected in the future, we can expect that social policy will also be reduced and worsened. And look, I suggest you look at each one at the end of the month your payment list, where you can see clearly how much contributions are made and how much taxes are paid. And not to go now with this function, health care in Slovenia is free. It's not! Every employee pays a lot of health contributions. Education in Slovenia is not free, all those who have compulsory children know how they are about a month, not to talk about annual costs. And the social situation in Slovenia is deteriorating, that is a fact. The fact is that in the last 8 years in Slovenia we always have left-wing governments that work exclusively in the interest of trade unions but do not work in the interest of the economy. And the well-respected coalition, respected by the Ministry of Finance, we ask you and expect you to start talking to the economy as well. The last case is, for example, the case of the Chamber of Commerce, which left the negotiations and left a social agreement. For the first time in the history of Slovenia this has happened that someone has left the social agreement and the group. Now all that's left is the unions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the draft law in the first step. We are confident that it is going in the right direction and we expect all these open issues to be resolved by a quality debate today through the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u11	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues. In short, the position of the Desus Group. Many, if not all of the parties have already promised a comprehensive tax health, pension, fiscal and other reform in the interests of a small person during their electoral campaign. In our parliamentary group, we have examined the draft law in detail and found that the drafter is taking on so-called contribution loads, but who will be subject to this burden. For a little man like that, do we all like to stress? No, no, no. Those with the highest salaries and employers will pay less. The applicants justify this proposal as a burden for all citizens and citizens. We can see that as a special kind of irony. And your people, our voters understand what your proposal really means? I mean, at first glance, I have to admit, he seems to like it, but let's take a closer look at what this candy means. Let me begin by borrowing a question from one of our visible unionists, who is there in the summer months of 2014, when negotiations were held to form a government coalition asked: "Is it Christian to introduce a system that is completely contrary to reciprocity and solidarity, which is the foundation of the social state?"that was a quote. I wonder a little differently, isn't it in the spirit of solidarity and justice to help those who don't? Isn't it the main "shit" of the social state that you have to help people who don't have and can't help themselves? Doesn't the Constitution say we're a social state anymore? With this proposal, you are primarily trying to undermine the fundamental constitutional value of solidarity, as you would like to introduce the so-called rich cap. A rich cap for those who already earn more than a large majority of citizens. You propose a ceiling on the calculation and payment of contributions for those who receive a monthly salary of more than €3100. Claim to relieve developers and researchers, engineers, etc., in short, all those who contribute most to the added value of the economy. You claim that these salaries are higher than four times the monthly minimum wage of EUR 3 000 162. But that's what they really are. According to the SURS, the average monthly gross salary of the highly educated there is about 1.4 average gross wages and 2.9 minimum wages, which is the sum of the circus EUR 2300. I agree that's not enough. Those who make the most of your contribution to the development of the economy therefore have much lower wages, but the burdens of these, following this proposal, are nowhere to be found. Let us look at the proposal that, according to you, brings relief from solidarity participation. Who do you think we're gonna unload here? First time. Tycoons, quasi bankers, managers, "every strong" counselor and mental caregiver regardless of whether they have shown enough ethics and morals and responsibilities in their work. Even though they were playing monopolies with unsecured loans, companies were bankrupt and people were thrown on the road, and they never returned the money. They would relieve the privileged who receive such or other supplements in their fabulous salaries. My dears, we would also burden officials such as ministers, Members of Parliament, etc., whose good wages are financed by taxpayers, of course. Yes, colleagues and colleagues, after this proposal, we too would be burdened by Members who would no longer be in solidarity with our citizens and citizens who have entrusted us with our mandates. This proposal allows even higher salaries for those who already have high salaries, many citizens and citizens of this country, who pay taxes and finance everything they need, but do not have any bread at all, and this is the saddest. I am afraid that it will only be impossible for the brain to escape abroad because of this proposal, because, unfortunately, young people are going abroad, because they are looking for better opportunities for professional advancement there, because they do not get a job at home and because they simply do not have to stand on their own feet and live on their own. However, in order to prevent brain escape, it will be necessary to take systematic action and take into account several factors. Let me, once again, express my firm conviction that action on both social and employment policies must be continued and, above all, an integrated approach should be taken. This means that there will be no partial individual issues, but a comprehensive approach in the area of social, family, employment, fiscal, etc. needs to be pursued. You say there is a need to increase the competitiveness of the economy by lower taxes. Why? To open new jobs, to invest in development. That's supposed to happen a long time ago. I think it's 1995. At that time, the contribution rate for pension and disability insurance owed to the employer was substantially reduced, from 15 per penny to 8.85 per cent. The tax burden on the employee is still, you won't believe it, the same. It was then argued that this measure should apply only to temporary, until the tax on wages was lifted. We have abolished the tax on paid salaries from 2009 and the wages have been burdened, thus allowing employers additional funds to invest in development, modernisation, growth, etc. And that's what happened? Unfortunately not, or at least not to the extent expected. It turned out that the majority of employers created high savings and profits due to the reduction of taxes were not earmarked for research and development and for opening up new quality jobs and for expanding production to help and develop regions, but poured themselves into private pockets for the purposes of wild privatisations, for the purchase of yachts, for the purchase of luxury cars and for the purchase of Armani's clothes. The companies were chained and eventually bankrupted, and the workers fell on the road. Of course they were also such, it is necessary to admit that they actually invested in what I mentioned before, but the Slovenian reality is such, unfortunately it was so that all of these were too small. Let me also recall that, in all these years, the pension allowance has already been reduced by at least EUR 10 billion, of course, which is little more than one year's budget for this country, so this burden should also be added to the causes of the pension system crisis and the very absence of a pension register. Following the introduction of these measures, the State budget took over part of the co-financing of pension and disability benefits, and until then it was not necessary for pension funds. Moreover, in the past, the surplus pension fund has been diverted to the financing of several important state investments, which had virtually nothing to do with the remittance of the pension fund. Even in the time of the fat cows, so-called fat cows, we did not return to the previous level in the employers' contribution rate, and during the crisis the rise would not be exactly in place, but such a measure could be legitimate. A gradual transition to equalisation of the contribution rate to the pension fund could also be acceptable, thereby achieving its sustainability and ultimately greater autonomy in relation to other sources of funding. Already increasing the rate of contribution for employers by 4% of the point would bring about €800 million more for the PPIZ, i.e. for pension payments. We could finally make sure that pensions are properly coordinated and that the annual allowance is paid so that it is not only necessary to share them selectively. The proposed bill would like to make the pension fund more impoverished by around €600 million with its entire set of proposals. Of course, I'm not going to go down here to calculate what this means for the number of average wages and the school allowances and not least lunches in this buffet, because some people can do it better than me. If I add the negative consequences for health insurance, which would be poor for half of that, that is about EUR 300 million, it is probably now clear to every citizen what this is about and I can at least apologize for asking what this means for my rights. There's nothing left. With this proposal, therefore, you want to withdraw or drastically reduce the rights to pensions and health insurance for more than 10,000 pensioners and health-stricken citizens. I wonder whether or not how and from what resources some 900 million euros from both state treasuryes are intended to be replaced after this proposal. We would like to charge each of the working people in Slovenia an additional tax burden of more than 1,000 euros a year so that a few hundred privileged people can live even better and accumulate their wealth even more. We will encourage further distribution to a few percent of the fabulously rich and to over 90, significantly more than 90% of those who live on the brink of survival. This is happening somewhere in the world unfortunately. With a rich, so - called rich cap, you are actually interfering with or proposing the so - called social slipper. Thus, "contributions are only charged when incomes exceed the minimum wage, that is more than €790, and there would be no payments and payments at all under this amount. They would also reduce the basis for the calculation of contributions to all debtors for the level of the general benefit of the income." For God's sake, you're proposing a very financial black hole a la Slovenian banks. Math is a pretty exact knowledge if the ones with the lowest and substantially lower incomes, so richer, what does this mean for the rights of pensioners and health insurance — would they stay, would they not? Who and how would guarantee at least the same level of pension, disability, health and parental insurance rights as well as unemployment insurance? Again, I repeat the same question: Where would we take the extra money if, unfortunately, there is a shortage of it at this point? Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, in Slovenia the reduction of the rights of pensioners and health-protected workers will not take place until the party Desus has enough words and votes in Parliament. The rich cap you're proposing is not acceptable to Desus. We consider the bill in our parliamentary group to be a good media spin, but we estimate that it is materially premature, is under-thinking, in some ways misleading and, as a result, unacceptable, because it undermines the foundations of the solidarity system of the social state, leading to a reduction in social rights and ultimately undermines the fiscal commitments we have made by adopting the Fiscal Rule Act. Following what has been said and explained in the Desus Group, we will not support the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u13	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Contributions Act provides a good starting point for discussion in the National Assembly, and in particular the possibility of presenting various aspects of resolution as to how it is possible to reduce the income of employees. Applicants say they are pursuing the objective of reducing the burden on people's income by contributing to social security. This, in their view, would relieve the work and open up opportunities for decommissioning the economy, for higher net wages and for more employment. However, we believe that the proposed solutions threaten solidarity based on both a health and a pension insurance system. And this is the basis, this is the basic starting point, which, however, in the legislation we adopt in Slovenia, we must take into account, because Slovenia is a social state by the Constitution. Applicants propose the introduction of a lower income limit, i.e. the amount to which the debtors would not pay social security contributions at all. They also propose the introduction of a so-called social hat or determine the maximum amount over which contributions would not be paid. In addition, they propose to amend the base for contributions from which they would deduct general income relief and thereby further reduce contributions. They themselves estimate that such changes would mean a significant reduction in the income of both health and pension funds. According to their assessment, there would be fewer €490 million in these two cash registers, and this would be a reduction for a good €760 million in health and pension revenues. Taking into account that the introduction of the proposal would also reduce insurance bases, this would result in lower pensions. In short, at first glance we can talk about the fact that raising net wages is, of course, a very pleasant measure, the current measure, when people can get something more every month at a moment, but that means they get one candy, which is unfortunately very fast to melt. In fact, the problem arises at a time when the worker happens to be ill and, of course, because he does not pay for the medical bills, he also has a lower standard of health care and thus a smaller possibility or, above all, a more expensive way of healing, because he must also contribute additional resources to remedy the problems he may have encountered in his work. At the same time, it means that even when you go to a decent retirement, you have a lower pension. What pensions are like today in Slovenia and how many people actually live on the brink of poverty in retirement is certainly an information that the applicant should carefully analyse before going into this change. In doing so, we would also like to recall the fact that, in the case of laws that are being tabled, we are, above all, trying to see the consequences of some of the measures that we or they have introduced in the past. Indeed, we also have experience in lowering the rates of contribution, with a view to raising net wages since 1996. And experience shows that reductions in contributions have not been translated into wages, but mainly into corporate profits. And when we look at how much money went into the tax havens also from Slovenia for profit, we could certainly talk today about tens of billions of funds, of which the country, and also all the others who expect a higher standard, actually have nothing. That is why, at the end of last year's public debate, we have also put forward our proposal for an economic programme that seeks to achieve a tax reform to relieve the working and middle classes, and in it we find that the Slovenian tax burdens are indeed uneven. In fact, there is an over-average burden on income from work and labour relations and, on average, income from capital and property is under-burdened, and here is this principle that needs to be taken into account when we interfere with the tax system. And we are following in particular the solutions that are in a more fair distribution of tax burdens, and here we see this balance in making capital and assets more burdensome and, of course, on this account, you can also unload contributions to wages. Without this balance, there can be very serious problems in the functioning of the country. The additional problem that we would like to highlight on this occasion is the fact that we have a lot of insidious forms of work on the Slovenian labour market. So, we employ people in a way that at some point you actually get them to work, you satisfy them, but, of course, they have significantly less rights to do so than those who are regularly employed. And if only these unscrupulous employed people were to be employed in a normal way, we would certainly also increase their contributions to both the pension and health bills, and we could talk again because we have more money at our disposal so that certain classes can certainly be unloaded. And when we look at these classes, we find that almost two thirds of Slovenian employees receive a salary lower than the average. And we have to ask ourselves why that is. And when we look at this system, we come to the fact that the burden of wages from the average onward is really among the highest, we can say almost in the world. However, if we analyze from this point on, we find that this has actually been brought about by one of the former Minister of Bajuk's tax reforms. Indeed, this tax reform has reduced the number of tax classes, which has placed a heavy burden on wages that are only slightly off average. Employers tend to pay their wages to the lowest level of taxation. We also see a solution to our proposals for economic reform, the economic programme, in that it is necessary to actually define more tax classes and thus enable us to relieve the middle class and then to properly burden those who receive more. On conclusion, I can only recapture the facts mentioned at the outset. The financial consequences of this law are extremely devastating for both the pension and the health system. Finally, even in the budget, and in the fact that we also have to worry about balancing public finances, this law cannot be supported because it would actually cause very serious difficulties in ensuring an adequate pension system, the health system and the balance of public finances in the country, and thus certainly making the country's functioning worse as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. This law stated that with the support of this proposal today we can do something for people. Our answer could actually be very simple. Yeah, let's destroy health and pension insurance. We will therefore vote against it in the United Left. The reason is very simple. If this law were adopted, pension and health bills would lose more than €800 million per year. However, we all know that the income of the pension fund is already insufficient to pay pensions and that more than 50% of pensioners live with pensions below EUR 500. Already in the current regime, more than one third of the pension must be financed from the budget because the income in the pension fund is simply too small. There should be no one in this room who does not know that the health benefits are already too small to provide timely and effective treatment for everyone in this country. In our hospitals at this time, 200,000 people are standing in waiting lines. That is why our task is very simple. We need to increase the revenue in these two cash registers, but not to reduce, especially hand-to-hand, and with proposals like this one in front of us. The proposal did not offer any solution to this almost 800 million-dollar drop in social contributions. Yes, indeed, we have heard a whole series of phrases in creating new jobs and economic growth. But these are just phrases, and the reality is that this failure will not be able to be compensated roughly for by other taxes. This is also confirmed by the calculation of the Ministry of Finance, which I will indicate later. However, I believe that the young economists who prepared this proposal and lobbyists from the Chamber of Commerce who officially supported this proposal by letter do not mind. On the contrary, their interest is very clear. In fact, when the revenues of the health insurance office are lower, there will be more work for commercial insurance companies. And when the income of the pension and disability insurance institution is lower, state pensions will be lower and there will be a higher demand for private pension insurance. In short, it is a strictly interesting law, a law on the interest of financial capital, in particular insurance capital. The lobbying for the so-called health reform takes place at every step. The proposaler, Nova Slovenije, accepted these proposals for his own. Their latest proposal for health reform is only a recycling of the classic requirements of medical organisations and research paid by the Insurance Association of Slovenia and the American Chamber of Economics. In this place, I can also give you their addresses. Strategic orientations of Slovenian health for the exit from the 2014 crisis, evaluation of the long-term sustainability of health care in 2014, project of renewal of the economic aspects of Slovenian health in 2015, etc. These are interesting research supported by the domestic lobby and the American Chamber of Economics and we can read exactly the requirements as in the proposal of the proposer. It is therefore quite clear that this is an interesting law and that we do not have a problem in fact. However, there is a major problem in the United Left that this law is contrary to the interests of the vast majority of Slovenian citizens. For the vast majority of Slovenian citizens expect and demand from us, as representatives of the people, a solid pension and health system. If we allow the emptying of health, social registers and the introduction of commercial insurance, our reality will be longer every day than that. We'll have two categories of citizens ahead of us once in a while. On the one hand, those who will be able to afford commercial insurance, on the other hand, those who will not be able to afford it, and this is not a hypothetical case from some distant abroad, but it is a situation that is already happening with us. Look, at the time of the crisis, 28 thousand of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens had to cancel their supplementary health insurance because they didn't have to pay it anymore. 28 thousand people were left without supplementary health insurance because they could not afford it. If this law had been adopted, supplementary health insurance should have been raised by about 50 euros per person and imagine how many people would have been cut off at that time. And it is clear that the smaller the clear means, the smaller the basket of rights. This is the objective and content of the permanent requirements of neoliberal organisations such as the OECD and the European Commission, that we must rationalise, which I hope we all know now, means reducing our social rights. In particular, I must point out that the health department in this regard is in a worse position than the pensioner's. The deficit of the pension register is covered by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and the health department does not have this right. Less than resources, there are fewer health services, and the prices of services are so low that patients have huge losses that hinder normal work rather than the development of our health care. Of course, the applicants have repeatedly stressed their support for rural areas, families, even women's rights. Maybe. But the law they have proposed will do the most harm to these groups. The rate of poverty, the rate of social exclusion is the largest right in the rural area, in the development-threatening regions such as Prekmurje, East Styria, Posavje, Bela Krajina. The risk of poverty is most exposed to older single women, especially in rural areas. And commercial health insurance is already the most expensive thing for families with children. These are the groups most difficult to afford for commercial insurance in which such proposals would force them directly and, on the other hand, they need the most health and social services. So those who need the most help will be pushed away from it, and this is the truth of the applicant's socio-market model, as we call it. One of the proponents, Joseph Horvat, spoke on several occasions about the need to find bank hole drills. I agree. They need to be found. And we need to start looking where no one is looking for them right now, especially at the time of Janša's first government, when most of the bad credits were created and when the lion's share of the structural deficit was created. But today, when we talk about health and pension insurance, we need to find some other drills another hole. Towards the drilling holes in the social cash registers. The reduction in social contributions is not from yesterday or today. It's nothing new. This has been happening to us for 20 years, but it is unlikely that anyone will remember who is responsible for these holes. So I'm going to give you a brief description of how this developed. In 1995 and 1996, Drnovško's government, including ministers of the then Christian Democracy and SLS, reduced the contribution of employers to pension insurance from 15.5 to 8.85%. These were the first drill holes in the pension register. While the same Drnovšk government partially compensated for this failure by introducing a tax on paid wages paid by the company, the loss, according to the estimate we have, was due to a decrease in these contributions in 1995 and 1996 by 2009 of almost 7 billion euros, and the tax on paid salaries, which was imposed as compensation, brought only 4 billion euros. Thus, drillers drilled 3 billion holes into public finances within 13 years into the social treasury through this measure. Thus, Slovenia lost 3 billion euros. The situation worsened in 2006 when the then Janša Coalition decided that this tax on paid salaries, which was introduced as compensation for the reduction of employers' contributions to pension insurance, would be abolished, and this was definitely the case in 2009, and the contributions on the other hand did not increase. As we know that the decline in potential contributions was around €5.2 billion over the next five years, we can say very clearly that they have invested an additional €5 billion in public finances. It is no wonder, therefore, that in 2007 and 2008, despite the growth with which the right still boasts today, Slovenia's structural deficit has increased by as much as 2.2%, according to the European Commission's assessment. At this point, I will not discuss any other tax reliefs for businesses and natural persons with the highest incomes introduced by the first and second Yanš government. As you know, before 2007, the corporate income tax rate was 25%, now it's only 17. The EU average is 23 and all other reliefs should be taken into account. That is why we are Slovenians in the European Union in the last place, as far as the capital taxes collected are concerned. The average GDP in the collected capital taxes in the EU is 20%, with only 10 of us. And there's only Estonia behind us. This is the truth of such development, as proposed by the proposaler today. What has happened in these years since we started creating oxygen for the economy, and we know it well. It's not a development, it's a lost decade. There was no inflow of highly trained personnel, and there was a brain drain. There has not been a social rebirth of Slovenia, there has been a social disaster. However, the financial effects of this proposal need to be shifted to this point. The applicant noted that the social contributions would amount to EUR 490 million, indicating that losses would be partially compensated by an increase in income and more tax collected than legal persons' income. But the proposalr could not assess this increase. At this point, it is important to note that the laws already have to contain an assessment of the financial implications by the rules of procedure, and in general, I am sure that before any proposal is made, it is necessary to be clear about the consequences of the proposal. It is clear, however, that the applicant underestimated the hole that would have arisen in the social treasury and underestimated the net negative impact on public finances. The Ministry of Finance had taken on completely different numbers, not up to 490 million, but they had charged that if this proposal had been implemented, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance would have lost 638 million euros and the Department of Health Insurance 339 million. So, if we add this up, both social cash registers would lose as much as EUR 977 million. I hope we understand each other. With this proposal ahead of us today, the social treasury would lose almost one billion euros in income annually. Therefore, the estimated losses of both registers would be higher by EUR 487 million than the applicant stated. The proposal states EUR 490 million; the reality is almost one billion. The applicant was spared 100 % in the calculation. I rarely agree with the Ministry of Finance, but this time they're right. This law is already nominally inappropriate for further consideration. The reduction in contributions would compensate in only a weak 10% of the allowances, the revenue in the budget quoted by the applicant. According to the calculations, the budget would have obtained a maximum of € 151 million, which would have been a net outturn for public finances of €800 million, that is, 2.1% of the current Slovenian GDP. Such errors even if such proposals are prepared by academic economists cannot be a coincidence. They may be the result of ignorance, but they may be the result of deliberate deception. It can be a combination of both, but this certainly shows that the purpose of making such laws is exclusively to advertise neoliberal ideas. Finally, I must conclude that the law would not have any of the positive effects promised by the applicants. They promise higher economic growth and the creation of quality jobs. But both theory and practice show that these expectations are completely unrealistic. The effects of reducing taxes on growth have been shown to be minimal and short-term. This is not a finding of the United Left, here I quote a study by Nataša Jemec and co-authors published by Banka Slovenije in 2013. Citation: "One-time changes in national consumption and taxes in Slovenia are expected to have a short-term effect and cannot be applied to, I stress, the acceleration of economic activity over the longer term."the end of the quote. The practice has shown the same. Taxes on profits and capital revenues have been drastically reduced in Slovenia since 2007 by abolishing the tax on paid wages, and labour costs have also been reduced, but I will point out once again that there has been no technological transformation of Slovenia, there has been no economic recovery of Slovenia. Everyone who lives in this country knows what has happened in the past eight years. The reduction of taxes and the management of pro-cyclical economic policy led to severe overheating and then to a worse fall in economic activity and employment. If in the first years, when the first Janša government introduced neoliberal reforms, it was still somehow because the overheating of the economy created jobs in construction, catering and transport we were most of these cities as soon as the credit expansion and fairy tales ended in 2008 and now we are where. Of course, the same is true in most comparable countries. The only guaranteed results of lower taxes, for the first time, are higher deficits and debt and others, greater inequality and between social exclusions. If I draw the line. There is nothing positive about this law, there is only one new very slutty recipe written for drilling holes in social registers. I am pleased that, at least this time, the coalition has shown so much rationality that it has resisted this and will not spread the floss on the excessive burden of the economy itself. The burden of income and contributions is the only fair part of our tax system, which takes into account the principle of each contributing according to its capacity, with our fellow citizens and fellow citizens receiving each other’s needs when assistance is needed. I hope that this country will continue to do so and that we will not give in to the fairy tales of economic growth that are supposed to occur with neoliberal reforms because we have believed in this fairy tale for too long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Dr. Brglez. Dear Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It says here, "We are Slovenians, we have solutions." A successful Slovenia requires the following: low taxes, simple procedures, an open economy. In the case of low taxes, the social cap, lower labour tax, lower VAT. In simple procedures, shorter placement of facilities into space, faster absorption of European funds, simplification of procurement procedures. Open economy privatisation, labour market reform, increased payment discipline. The Christian democratic economic policy established in the most successful countries in the world is called the social market economy, where the values of justice, freedom and security, security in the broadest sense. Allow me, dear colleagues and colleagues, a somewhat unusual emotional introduction. Today is a sad day for Slovenia, Austria, and Europe. At 7:00 and 13 minutes, I received a text containing the following information: At the border crossing of the Gederovians, the Austrian army — the army! - controls personal documents, of course also to Slovenian day-to-day migrant workers. There are about 18,000 of them, mostly from Pomurje, from Styria and Koroška, there are no accurate data, some say 20,000. They just got a job in Austria and thank God they got it, and thank God they're taking advantage of the freedom of the European Union, that's free movement of people. But not anymore, just until today. And last year, several thousand people moved out of Slovenia for permanent, not daily, or weekly. I have no record of anyone going to Venezuela or North Korea at all. They went to the best, the best educated. Why? Why? Why, dear colleagues and friends? And here we sow long hours and long days. Let us ask ourselves what good we have done for people in this mandate. Yes, of course, we also did something good, of course we did. You say, the best we've done has stabilised public finances by adopting the Fiscal Rule Act. Really? Really? Don't lie, don't lie to yourself! The Fiscal Rule Act is just a tool that is now safely closed into a window waiting to be taken into the hands of a master who is called the fiscal world. When we have it, we don't know. We are in a violation of the European Union regulation, and I will remind you of this many times more. Yeah, what we've heard is that it's good for some people to keep the status quo. We are still, in terms of development rates, levels of development, lower than we were before the crisis, despite economic growth. Some people just agree that pensions actually fall by 16% in the last six or seven years. There's a real pension coming down! Some agree that companies, Slovenian companies, yes, even the best, go out from Slovenia. Why? Why? Ask Mr. Boscarol and hundreds of others. And let us also ask ourselves who will finance the social state. We're the first for the social state. We are for the social market model of the economy because we protect and protect capital and because the largest capital is human. The proposed amendment to the Law on Social Security Contributions, which we have proposed for parliamentary consideration, results in actually a hard part of a wide range of people. We often say that Members of New Slovenia make regular monthly field visits. There have been 30 of them since 2012. On average, we visit 5 economic operators. Thus, about 150 micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as farms, have been visited by public institutions so far. When we listen to the owners and managers of these companies, these are fantastic stories, I tell you. And when we take their message into a few sentences, these sentences go around like this, so the owners and the managers say, "We're a small family company with 80 employees. We're lucky I'm a great team, the owners say. And the workers have no right to buy me a yacht. And we have a new product. We could hire 30 new people, but we can't because the legislation is such that we don't hope and we can't, because we can't quickly upgrade the production hall, because the neighbouring land is like this because it can't be built and the procedures take five years and twenty qualified, maybe highly qualified people don't have a job and so they go out. The logic is very simple and only the eyes need to be opened. The proposal for a law brings three main solutions to which I will be very quickly defined below. The first proposed solution is the introduction of a lower limit for the calculation of social security contributions or the introduction of a so-called social cop. The measure on analogy with general income relief introduces a proportion of the income from which no contribution is calculated. The result will be positive for the recipients of the minimum wage, as their monthly net salary would increase by 50 euros. What's going to happen to those who get a minimum wage with those 50 euros? Yeah, they're gonna spend it. It is said that the country will receive a share of this immediately back to the budget. This means, of course, EUR 600 at the annual level, and this is certainly not negligible, nor is it negligible for the country. And what is very important, and I must mention, is that employers will not be more burdened financially. I can say calmly that this measure will indirectly stimulate consumption and, consequently, the start-up of the economy, which we still need in this situation. And, of course, through increased consumption, this will also be seen on the revenue side by the state budget. Another proposed solution is the introduction of a ceiling for calculating social security contributions or development caps for all employees in the Republic of Slovenia. There have been many demagogic debates in Slovenia to date on this measure. Even today. Some still resent us for putting in a rich hat. Really? Who is a rich man in Slovenia? Or the one on the regular salary? Good-bye, Slovenia. Let me just give you a few facts. The cap in Slovenia already exists for self-employed persons and is currently placed at the rate of three and a half times the average annual salary in the Republic of Slovenia, calculated per month. New Slovenia proposes to limit the amount of the social security contribution for all employees upstream to four times the minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia, which is currently EUR 3 000 200. We estimate that this would relieve employers in companies, in technologically intensive activities such as information and communication activities, pharmaceuticals, electronic and optical products production, computer production, scientific research and development activities, as well as financial services and insurance, aviation, etc. At the same time, we would increase the net receipts of engineers, very important and other engineers, engineers. They're not tycoons. I'm talking about engineers. These are the towing horses of our development and Slovenia needs a technological breakthrough. Whoever doesn't understand this can only be helped by God. The third proposed measure concerns Christmas or 13th salary. The new Slovenia proposes that the Christmas on the calculation of the contributions be equal to the annual holiday regression. Regression is significantly less burdened by social security contributions, only in the amount exceeding 70% of the average gross wage in the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that in this way more employers would be motivated to reward their workers, who are the largest capital of any company, at the end of the year. We're fighting for the workers to understand each other. It is normal, colleagues and colleagues, for Members of New Slovenia to support the law in the first reading. We expect a quality debate on the proposed solutions in second reading. We expect the marriage to get this chance. We are pleased that the Government has stated that it actually supports our concept. We would expect the Government to write in its opinion that it is preparing its own solution. Somehow it wasn't detectable. We understand the government's objections, but we've been predicting, I repeat, we've been temping for one. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I hope that you, dear colleagues and the Government understand that the Group of Ambassadors does not have as much machinery as it has, say, the Ministry of Finance. To conclude, I must thank my young colleague, Luka Mesca. He's already gone. He's got interesting tactics. Hit and run. [[…]] I'm glad he mentioned me. Of course, I'm a big fighter looking for bank hole drills. To him and, of course, to my colleague Luka Mescu, I propose at least eight hours of apprenticeship practice in the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First of all, Mrs Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare for the proposaler and the mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u20	We are also Slovenians in the new Slovenia and also working, hardworking Slovenian citizens, who do not complain, but we are looking for and have solutions. The economy also expects solutions from the government. Unfortunately, on all our field visits, in many companies we hear that Nova Slovenija is the only hope for the economy. And if the government keeps talking about how this law isn't appropriate, how nothing can be done, how to calculate the minuses themselves, then I wonder where it really has a better solution, more appropriate. Can't anything really be done? If you don't want to, you can't. Good companies want to reward their workers, and many also reward them fairly well. However, those who want to pay 13 more wages or a Christmas pay reckon that, in fact, their workers will not get the most out of it, but again directly into the state treasury. Then they look for other solutions and circuits to properly reward their hardworking workers, which make the company work well. And if he's left with more than his salary, he'll spend more. That is why these calculations of the Ministry, in my view, are incorrect or stop only where there are fewer revenues in the state treasury and forget that more will also come from the VAT spending of citizens into the state treasury, more contributions will come from new jobs for pensions and health bills. Let's just forget about it. Where are you people who say you're against saving? With both hands, we should support our law, which provides that more money can remain in the pockets of those who have the worst wages and in the pockets of those who have average wages, as good wages are relatively small in Slovenia. Madam Secretary of State has stated that everything cannot be taken into account, what is wrong. I think that if we supported this law in the first reading, we could honestly supplement it in the second reading and at least do something for the Slovenian economy and Slovenian citizens. We often hear in the debates that young people are leaving. Young educated people go abroad. Why? They're leaving those who don't have jobs. Unfortunately, those who have jobs also leave, but are poorly paid for their work and their knowledge. We hear this again often in companies where they need their knowledge, where they are urgently needed for value added, for quality, good products, only with these can we be successful in the market. And because in other countries, Western, ugly capitalist countries, these people get more paid for their knowledge, unfortunately, they also leave. And with this, Slovenia is doing a great deal of damage and also to the Slovenian economy. Well, what we've done with the tax registers - they say there are now more than half the defenses in the markets that are or would earn a few euros more to make a better living. And since things are complicated, difficult to do in several places, in more places, they'd rather stay at home. And you say that you care about the social security of people and those who are in the worst social situation. We know that money must circulate, and I think that the winner will be the government that will be able to set up a suitable round of money, adequate burdens on employers, adequate wages for workers, and then also make it possible to make an appropriate round, invest in new jobs or spend citizens. But since you always bet on the wrong horses, this round stops and money falls into holes, into bank holes, into black holes, instead of getting to the people that need it. So the winner will be the government that will establish an appropriate round of this money in Slovenia. I have repeatedly said that this is no praise if a government boasts of giving more social assistance. They say help yourself and God will help you. This is our principle, allowing citizens to help themselves with their work first. But we will give social assistance to those who actually cannot help themselves because citizens do not want charity, citizens want to work for decent wages so that they can live a decent life. This must be our goal, the goal of our action. And with this logic, as you say, when we have to tax more, we will contribute to employers and citizens, workers, to get more money in the state treasury – no, more jobs, more employees will contribute to the state treasury. So in New Slovenia we are Slovenians, we have solutions, this is New Slovenia, we are not complaining, we are looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u21	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u22	I listened carefully to the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and I would like to start by thanking my colleagues from the SDS and colleagues from the Group of Non-Aligned Members who have seen some good intentions, some positive light in this proposal. Others, too, I think you were right in your discussions, but of course the two members of the group have come to a complete conclusion, one is certainly the Desus Group of Members, but I understand that at this point they are trying to get me back a little bit on account of other stories, but we will return to the pensioner. And I can't blame my colleague Luke Mesca, but I can't help him if he thinks that money is growing on a tree, that you can shake a tree and the money falls down. Unfortunately, this is not so that the budget is full that the state and the economy are functioning, it is necessary to work, it is necessary to create new jobs, because it creates some revenue in state treasury. But you can't blame your fellow moon because they always have tactics, they tell their ideological position, and then they go. But when I listened to everything, including the representative of the government, I found one thing — that virtually none of those who oppose this law mentioned the goddess and in this first intervention I will limit myself to this proposal first. I said very well that this law proposes three things: a social slipper, a development cap and a Christmas tree. That the law is made up of three parts. To this day, we can talk in principle about how we see solutions and how we are actually looking for solutions. And in the second treatment, things we don't like. Things that may have too much financial implications for someone are easily eliminated by amendments. But the positive thing about all of today’s debates is that no one objected to Christmas or other taxation. Those of you who have cut down on this proposal have simply bypassed this proposal and you have not even mentioned it. I will be very specific so that you can imagine what we are proposing. January is a month where it must still be relatively fresh. December month and Christmas payout. I'll give you a case. The company that gave up for Christmas in December has received €812 in its personal bank account. Do you have any idea how much the country takes from you? The country took €354 from this Christmas tree and wrote it down. We only propose a similar taxation of the Christmas tree as we know it in the regression. We don't detect hot water, we just pull a parallel. According to our proposal, if the law were to be adopted, the company that would give the worker the same December that comes to the 812 euro Christmas would get the worker 683 euros, says the state would take 129 euros at that Christmas. Our proposal to tax Christmas differently would give a little more than €800 to a citizen at Christmas. Even the financial consequences of the Christmas tree are not so enormous. The Ministry went into calculations, conservatively calculated about €40 million there. Our institute accounted for about 12 million euros there. I don't think it's a cost to jeopardize public finances. The Minister of Finance also thought about these things about the award of good workers, unfortunately his proposal has only destroyed the economy and a new proposal is now available here, which he supports economically. All the employers' organisations supported this measure even the unions we met with. I think that this law could see the light of the world already, because this solution is included in so that the taxation of Christmas is different. Parliament also needs to stand up a little for itself sometimes. The government coalition must also sometimes say that it is not only the voting machine of the government, but that we also have the opportunity in Parliament to come to a solution with dialogue. Also, we have proposed a general debate to discuss these solutions and proposals in principle. I sincerely believe, in the light of the foregoing, that Christmas, or other taxation of Christmas, is an indisputable solution that no one once opposed in this Chamber. If you are honest with the citizens and if you are not only concerned with political prestige, then the minimum you can do is to let this law in the first reading into the second reading. In the second reading, because you have the majority with the amendments eliminate both the social slipper and the development cap, and in the end we only have the Christmas Eve. It's a solution. Today, however, it will truly show how much new policy is here in this government coalition and how much political prestige it is. Now I'm going to let the rest of my colleagues talk about not spending too much time right now. About all the other eyewitnesses that were listed later.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u23	The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, prepare to be Mrs Urska Ban and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much. And exactly what my colleague Tonin mentioned in front of me is why I, both my fellow Members, will support the law in this consideration. So, Christmas and that worker, if the employer gives him a prize, of course depending on the height, got half or even less of the money on his account. I myself listened carefully to the presentations of the parliamentary groups, and it was extremely interesting to hear the opinions of the coalition parliamentary groups. SMC said the coalition contract says we're gonna unload the work. I'll sign it. Desus says that we will not be burdening the work because it is already too much of a burden today, and more contributions need to be increased. And the third coalition party, this is SD says, in our economic programme we showed what we would do. And this is supposed to be an agreed coalition that will lead Slovenia into the future. Colleagues and colleagues. Let's at least listen, and about the same thing to defend if you are still, if you're still a coalition. I have also warned in the opinion of the Group that it is absolutely impossible to reduce income alone. But you probably do not expect the opposition to tell you what needs to be done on the spending side. And here I want to say that I also disagree with all three proposals included in the law. More than 500 million decommissioned state budget, without concrete cuts in expenditure it cannot afford. And in my life, I've drawn up a number of budgets, state budgets, so I know that this is a very hard job and that 500 million is a lot of money. But once again, there's a third solution in the marriage that we support practically everyone, but then the coalition comes, of course, but three picks. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] We'll do it another time. But when it comes to fighting for a small man, said Desus, mentioned someone else, respected colleagues and colleagues, you have two MPs from Tržič, one from Desus and one from SMC, and see how you fight for a small man. After 113 years, you sent 118 people on the road. And this is a real fight for the little one. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] the man of this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u25	The word has Mrs Urska Ban, prepare to be mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President for your word. Today we are discussing the topic or area of economic policy, where we quickly saw that we can come to a unified conclusion that the burden of work or wages in Slovenia is too high. And today, New Slovenia is proposing its solution, proposing an amendment to the Social Security Contributions Act, which follows the objective of amending or proposing measures aimed at reducing labour burden. And all the studies or analyses I have looked at show that the largest share of the labour burden in Slovenia is exactly social security contributions, which shows that the actual solutions to the workload in the labour costs need to be sought primarily or also in the compulsory social insurance system, which is followed by the applicant in his proposal, and I agree with this basic idea. The way in which implementation itself or the proposed measures, i.e. the content of the proposed law presented by the proposer, also has certain shortcomings in my opinion. The measures proposed by the proposer are social slippers, a development cap and a reduction in the taxation of Christmas trees, mainly in the form of a partial one and, more importantly, not all the key and important objectives are being pursued. However, I will only briefly touch on areas which, in my opinion, do not take into account or adequately define the proposed law. We now know that social security contributions are the largest group of benefits in the public finances system, and intervention in this system constitutes an intervention in the relationship between income and expenditure in the three public finances. This is in the state budget, the pension fund and the health treasury. Then, on the existing scale of the basis for calculating contributions and the existing level of contribution rates, social security contributions are linked, on the other hand, to the extent of the rights we enforce by the insured. And by changing whether the basis for the calculation of social security contributions or the level of the contribution rate for social security contributions, the extent of the rights of insurers remains the same, solutions should also be presented where additionally, due to the lack of contributions, are financed by the same amount of rights. And here is my thought regarding ensuring a lasting structural balance of public finances. In accordance with the fiscal rule adopted, all measures must first be balanced in order not to disrupt the fiscal balance and increase the structural deficit, as would have been the case when the proposed measures were implemented. This would mean a new public financial risk or threat of imbalances, which would have a lot of negative consequences in this respect. In its opening statement and even in the opinion of the Government, the government has already explained the government, the government estimates that the overall net financial impact of all proposed solutions is a reduction in public financial revenues of around EUR 800 million, on the one hand, an increase of EUR 150 million in government revenues. At the same time, pension and disability insurance revenues would be reduced by 600 million and health insurance revenues by about 330 million euros. It is important to know that these positive effects on the revenue of the state budget when such proposed solutions are adopted, however, they would not have had, since the State budget in the form of a transfer should provide the missing funds in the pension fund and this net effect would then be common, as I said, EUR 800 million. And unlike the pension remittance transfer to health care is not possible, which would also mean a significant impoverishment of the health care basket. Therefore, this proposal does not take into account the maintenance of approximately the same level of the social state and does not take into account the nature of the system, the provision of a certain right in the event of an insurance case and the fact that the Slovenian social security system is based primarily on the principles of reciprocity and solidarity. The main laws governing social contributions in the Republic of Slovenia are the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Health and Health Insurance Act, and the contributions are paid from the gross salary, and the employer is obliged to pay the contributions. In addition to these two contributions are paid for parental care, for employment and for injuries at work and occupational diseases, the employer pays the last. We have decided on this system because we also believe in intergenerational solidarity. And here I should say that, unlike taxes which are an unintended source of income and their payment are not related to the specific benefits or rights that would be due to the payment of the tax to an individual taxable person, social security contributions actually involve contributions from insurers and employers to ensure specific rights. Social security contributions therefore need to be addressed in the context of the social security system as a whole and not just as a cost and burden for the debtor. And as we have already said, despite the high tax burden on wages, all taxes on wages are, in fact, our benefits, which we or we will benefit from at a time when we are not working, or before the first job when we are young, or after the end of working time when we are going to retire. Of course, these taxes could also be lower, but then they should also be lower than all the benefits and rights guaranteed by the State from this way of collecting money. However, such a solution also meant a blow to social security, as there is also a high level of solidarity through such a system, and this is certainly not the path we would like to take. The existing social security system - and we would probably want even more - and the existing age and working structure require so much and so much resources. Otherwise, I support the idea of directing tax policy activities towards finding solutions to decommissioning, but taking into account public financial frameworks or constraints. The reason for decommissioning tax burdens from the average of European countries is, as we have already said today, due to the over-average burden of work and consumption and the under-average burden of capital and property. Solutions should therefore be sought in restructuring the burden of public duties, including the burden of assets. This implies that the distribution of the tax burden between consumption, income and property needs to be redefined, with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment and, on the other hand, reducing the burden of income from work. This will also play an important role in the property tax, whose changes will be introduced into the future. Furthermore, further implementation of measures to improve the efficiency of tax collection, strengthen the functioning of inspectors, follow the further debarcation of the tax environment, and where we have taken steps in the past year, we have adopted a new Law on the Tax Procedure. For all of this, as we have already said in the position of the Group of Members, we cannot agree with the proposed solutions included in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Mrs. Iva Dimic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I'm going to start like this, we're Slovenians, we're looking for solutions, so at the end of the year, we've prepared a proposal for an economic programme, put it into a debate that we want to defuse the working class and the middle layer. If I touch on the proposal tabled by Nova Slovenija, I must say that this proposal was a good one at the beginning. However, when I took a deep look at this proposal, I soon realized that in this way, by confirming it, they would lose a lower and middle level of employees or that the pension register would be emptied, and that is what we want? I don't think so. However, at this point, I would like to start with an article published this week on the planet Siol, "The Truth About Taxation of Slovenian Workers". I will quote: "Emergencies have been bubbling for many years that high wage burden is one of the biggest reasons for foreign companies to avoid investing in Slovenia." I have a specific case. In our place, I must say that the investor built a large company, Geberit, kept jobs in Slovenia, but I will tell you, not because the tax burden on wages would be so high, but because workers work so well and the quality of work is significantly different from that of abroad. This company had the opportunity to move all production to Hungary, but decided that the company would develop and set up a set in this place. I have to say, people in this place are very good, because everything they do is good. We can see from this article that really Slovenian workers belong to the OECD countries after taxation. Taxes are 42.5% low, while the average wage burden in EU countries is 36%, according to Slovenia's 34-nation stake in 9th place. Should I point out where the biggest tax burdens are? In Belgium, 55.6%. I'm on it. In Austria, taxation is higher than in us, it is 49.4% and in Germany 49.3%. The lower taxes are only 7% in Chile and 17% in New Zealand. The data is very interesting to me. If we compare ourselves with Austria and Germany as we Slovenians like to compare taxes are higher, wages are higher. In both countries, I have seen that wages are higher, that the average salary is around EUR 2 000, as we have, EUR 1500. Not to mention the lowest, minimum wage. So Slovenia will see even more so that the people who receive the salary are not enough to survive nakedly. They address humanitarian institutions that help them to survive from month to month. It's scary, and it's totally unacceptable to me. Of course, pay for every worker is very important and often is also the focus of attention, but we need to know, as I mentioned at the outset, that they have a strong impact in labour law also the length of the working relationship, annual leave, holidays, relations, etc. However, from an economic point of view, the impact of wages or wage heights is, of course, an indication of the overall economy and economic development. Thus, wages are an important source of income for the population and at the same time a basis for the financing and functioning of the social security system. Pay also has an impact on the whole society. While the applicant points out that wages are too heavy and that they need to be unloaded. He pays gross with social security contributions. In this place, I could almost be attached, but the question is, how much more money will the employee get, what does that mean for pension, cash health, what does this mean for parental contributions, for employment? According to the data we received, there would be a deficit in this cash register of 490 million. According to the government's assessment, this deficit is almost €760 less than for a pension, a health allowance, is that what we want? Not me personally. This would also reduce the insurance base, which means that the worker will receive a lower pension when he retires. Simply put, a worker would really get a higher salary but at the expense of lower pensions by also jeopardising our public solidarity system. I think that we must finally be aware that the pay is really crucial for the individual as well as for the economy, so is consumption and economic growth. Increasing social differences in society is unacceptable to me. So we all have to think about how to proceed. We have prepared this economic programme, which has solutions that provide a lot of these guidelines on how to save these solutions. That is why, I think, this proposal is very meaningful and has solutions. However, I would certainly like the employees to have a salary to provide them with social security, a decent life, and in particular, I must say that I wish that the pensions would be such and so high as will allow them to survive with dignity and age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact that the situation in Slovenia is also worse in the field of minimum wage from year to year also shows data. In 2009, there were 19,000 people on minimum wage, and in 2014 there were 47,000. 47 000 people in 2014 tell us something that more and more people live on some side of society, in social distress. And what happened at that time? Practically nothing. That is why in Nova Slovenija we decided to make a programme that will bring more than EUR 50 per month to each of the 47,000 people. But they're all full of the mouths of a socialist, the Social Democrats are looking for solutions, I'm sure that's what Svetlik's 2011 reform showed. Llta, when 13,000 peasant women got those farmers' pensions, it was sometimes said. These are the solutions? [[...]] Is that a solution? That's not a solution. But it seems to me that, as if we do not hear that something needs to be done and when New Slovenia comes with good suggestions to help these people, so that at least decent or not worthy, they can survive, there are a lot of criticisms that we have not taken into account when collecting taxes, that solutions must be sought in the system of compulsory social security. Of course we know that, but who in this country has scissors and linen and what was done. What will or will be done for all those workers who receive a minimum wage. Fourteen days ago, on Slovenia 1, TV, the Slovenian Chronicle said that they received EUR 313 under the minimum wage. What did you do for those workers who get $313? practically nothing has been done yet. And if this worker gets 50 euros more, it means 600 euros more at an annual level, it seems to me that this is an incentive and, of course, a message from the State that he understands that he understands the hardship, that there is also a need to ensure an even distribution of goods, but with this government coalition there is a lack of readiness. Please reconsider and understand, however, that it is necessary to work in this National Assembly for People.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman. Here you go, Mrs. Lefty.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! Mr. Tonin said in the introduction, let's do something good for people. This was confirmed by the Member in front of me, but I wonder if it would really be with this law you've drawn up. I have the dilemmas and concerns that I will further substantiate. First, I'm gonna stop at a social security cap. The social cap means that those who receive higher wages than EUR 3 000 100, about, what is a 4 times gross wage in Slovenia, would not pay contributions over this amount for pension and disability and health insurance. But we must say, in terms of what this means, this social cap means, in the system of pension and disability insurance, solidarity with those of the lowest pension recipients who receive pensions from the lowest pension base. This is about, now about 670 euros. And all those with a lower pension base than EUR 770 will receive a pension of EUR 770. So where will the money be taken for these lowest pensions, for the lowest pension? We all know already that in Slovenia pensions are low, that they are still declining. I would not only stress the harmonisation of pensions, but also the new rate of pensions. The new legislation, the PPIZ-1 and then the PPIZ-2 are designed to keep the newly-spent pensions ever lower so that the dose percentages are lower. And if it wasn't for this solidarity for a pension from the lowest pension base, I don't know where we'd go. EUR 760 is now this limit, or EUR 770. And we know how many workers or employees have lower incomes than €770 in Slovenia, and all of this provides a pension or pension of €770, of the lowest pension base. I don't know where we'd get the money, but if for all these payments, we'd introduce this cap, as proposed by NSI. I would also like to comment on this. You say that this would limit the brain escape abroad, so that young people will stay with us at home in Slovenia. But, look, highly educated people have, like, an average salary of about 2,300 euros. Well, that cap wouldn't hit them. This cap would only hit those top layers, top managers and others who have a gross salary so high. Well, we haven't done anything again to keep the young from us. I mean, we didn't lower them with this or raise their wages and lower the burden. So I can't agree with that. Then it's about the contributions. I don't know, there should also be a reduction in employees' contributions, because these are too high and in general too high contributions, just how to do this, only with this proposal will we not be able to do it. Pensions and health bills are already in big trouble, the state is increasingly contributing to the pension fund, the pensions are low, where we will take this money. The motioners don't say. Where we'll get extra health care contributions, pensions, so at least they'll stay at the current level. Social cop. With this social slipper, I kind of agree, except I don't know if we're just going to put the lowest load on these contributions, if it's going to constitutionally hold that one category of citizens or employees is paying contributions, the other doesn't pay. I don't know. I can't tell. However, it would certainly be for this social slipper to be introduced, and that would be supported. Then unloading the 13th salary and Christmas to pay as many contributions as you make for the regression. I would say here again, just, there are not many companies that pay this 13th salary and Christmas, these are really the good companies that are aware of the capital that are in the workers. Only 15% of employees receive this, they receive this 13th salary payment and Christmas. So I don't know if we've done anything for all citizens. Mr. Horvath said in the end, the biggest capital is man. This is what I deeply agree with him, and I think, as he does, that we should really do something for man, only from this proposal do I not see it. Capital owners don't know that, that's the problem. If we were aware of him, we wouldn't just be rich and poor. We have already done more in this company to ensure that capital owners are burdened, and workers have not felt this effect, unfortunately. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The drafter of mags has the floor. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u34	There may have been some inaccuracies in the debate and perhaps it is right to comment on them. I would like to see this house matured to the realization that every employee in this country is twice the benefit of our country. Firstly, he does not need to pay for certain social transfers. Secondly, this man pays in health and pension bills. If this is going to be the starting point for us, then we're going to be able to talk a lot more about things. The second starting point, which we should also internalize in this house, is for as many people as possible to pay as low taxes. Today, however, this country seems to be marring those who pay taxes. But there's a group of people who don't pay. And higher than taxes, believe me, more people will avoid paying taxes and more questions with or without bills and things like that. And that people can't get married indefinitely. Those of you who get to know the economy a little bit, I think a fellow moon is supposed to study the economy, then you should know exactly what Laffer's curve is, that up to some limit the revenue by increasing taxes, and then from some point on, nothing more. He should know very clearly. Whatever the case, you've been quoting how saving doesn't help in economic growth, in economic conversion, you've been quoting things about how lowering capital taxes doesn't start the economy. I can agree with these things, I can agree with you, I can't argue with what you've said. But I say one thing, and this is what they say, if you want an ideological left and a right economist, that it is necessary to increase domestic consumption in order to start this economy. Now each of you should ask yourself how to increase domestic consumption or say even more simply how to make people spend more, buy more. Yeah, there's no other formula and there's no other way than to and from the pocket there's more and that what they have more can be wasted. Everything else is empty. Tell me if there is any other solution to increase domestic consumption differently than to leave more in people's pockets. Ok., I will say, I agree with you that taxation of capital in Slovenia is not a problem, that we are very competitive here or that we have low capital taxation compared to other countries. This is a non-problem, I agree. But the problem is the taxation of work. Even SD minister claims, I quote, "the main problem with minimum wage is labour costs." Many others have also debated today that the problem is taxation of work. It seems amazing to me whether you have listened to a very precise debate today that the two parliamentary groups, which are supposed to advocate for a small worker, are the United Left and Desus actually advocate a greater taxation of work. Understand who can. I simply cannot understand how advocates of workers and pensioners should take the initiative to be even more taxed. If the work is too taxed, I had, before I became a Member, Espe, I was an entrepreneur, many of you too, and most likely, if a little look around him very often encounters similar problems, if the work is too taxed for entrepreneurs and businesses to serve black jobs, that there are cases in Slovenia such as the minimum wage they place officially on your transaction account, and the rest you get in the envelope. This is all because the work is too taxed. And now, if we want to take a bite out of this problem, we need to deal with it. I don't see another option. And when we were looking for solutions, how can we be as effective as possible in this problem of over-taxation, we were looking for solutions that would be simple and that would not put the current system that we have on our heads. We did not go to change these rates of contribution, percentages of the rates of contribution. But we have tried to simplify our legislation and make it more meaningful and tell us how you can find a simpler solution than to say to every citizen, see, because your net revenue will increase, so that you will have more money left, this country admits that you do not have to pay contributions for 3,300 euros a year. So everything you earn up to 3,300 euros you don't pay your contributions, everything you earn over it you pay. It's a simple solution. That's, I'll say, some kind of flat-rate leave if you want. Nothing complicated here, nothing there, but the solution is simple, and because EUR 3,300 is uncontributed, this in particular means 50 euros more net income for people with minimum wage, by keeping the gross minimum wage the same. Let me tell you how we can find a solution so that we don't burden an economy that's already complaining that it's too burdensome and that we can increase people's income at the same time. If you have a better solution, put it on the plan today, I guarantee you, we will respect it. But I didn't find any other solution than what we suggested. Therefore, the minimum wage should remain at the same level and, due to the EUR 3,300 of new income, the minimum wage will be increased by EUR 50 per month for those with a minimum wage. In one year, that's another minimum wage. The ones you were talking about taking care of a little man, another question of mine. How could the 40,000 people on a minimum wage today be helped more specifically than to ensure that they have more €50 each month in the account? How? With measures to add two or three euros to these people with minimum wage, maybe five euros. With these five euros, they can't help each other completely, and these five euros won't turn into more consumption either. But only a specific amount and one additional minimum wage can contribute to higher consumption, that is for sure. Some of you have stood out here, you've been afraid, but now what does this mean for those with the smallest income for the weakest people, the financially weak people, that because of the decline in the payment of contributions, pensions will also be reduced. Don't hold it. Look, look at you ZPIZ-2, where it simply writes to you inside, when it talks about the lowest basis for the calculation of the pension, it nicely writes, even though this amount is lower than this lowest base, it cannot be lower than the lowest pension base laid down by law. This is now 76.5% of the average monthly salary. Well, I'm speaking very honestly now. What you pay less for contributions, the weakest one, will not mean a lower pension, but it will cost the country more. That's what I admit. Thus, either the pensioner's office or the state will be slightly more burdened by this measure, which I am not even hiding, and you have been able to find out for yourself, but it is not true that this action would result in people who have a minimum wage having a lower pension. And this, look, if you don't believe me, if you're nodding, let's take a look at PIZ-2, where these things in there clearly and loudly write what the lowest basis for calculating your pension is and what they can't go under. So once again, because of our action, the people who have a minimum wage today will not have a lower pension, but the country will have a higher cost.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vranick Erman. I'm sorry, Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you. I have to replicate to Mr. Tonin. I agree with this, of course, but I have stressed that pensions can be measured from the lowest pension base, which is now EUR 770, to provide solidarity in the pension system. And this solidarity will now be thwarted. If we introduce a social cap, the contributions of those who have a pension base of more than 3,000 and several euros will not come into the pension register and the pension register will not be able to provide solidarity with these contributions, i.e., doses of pensions based on solidarity, from the lowest pension base. I know this law and you have interpreted it correctly, but I have added that it is based on solidarity, without this solidarity being spilled into the state treasury account. The basic principle of this pension system, existing, is solidarity. And we must continue to cultivate this solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much. In the introduction, I put forward only a few key arguments which led the Government to conclude that, in view of the dictatorship provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is for the National Assembly to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In this part, I would like to focus on a slightly more in-depth argument on the individual elements that have been exposed in the debate. First, the country picks up. One part for the state budget, from which social transfers are financed and public investment pays in the public sector, is also included, but the main burden of labour costs is pension and health bills. And this part of the contributions-based payments is inevitably linked to the rights deriving from the social security system. We have decided on a social security system and we continue to maintain it. In this social security system, we've decided on some level of mutual or, if you want, intergenerational solidarity. And with such an intervention in financing this system, as proposed by this law, we cannot in the long term maintain the current social security system, social security rights and the extent of solidarity we want. That is why I stressed in the introduction that we need a broader debate and context on all elements of social security systems in the country. I cannot agree with the idea that the solutions proposed are simple. It is easy to write them down, but they are extremely difficult to perform. Let me point out that the proposed cot is a reduction in the burden and, of course, the short-term higher available income for those who pay social security contributions at all levels, not only for those with the lowest base. But under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, pensions are protected for those with the lowest income. Those who have a pension base higher than this minimum will, of course, have a lower pension base because of the general relief that would be recognised in the payment of social security contributions, given that only this measure and no other pension is in place. The talk was, yes, also for those who receive the lowest wages and through the solidarity system already today, the state budget by transferring to the pension fund additionally financed the payment of their pensions and the speech was, yes, but the state will pay more. Where does the country get to pay?Oh, my God! Something was said that money doesn't grow on trees and that the stress of money falls down. This is also true of the country. The state does not have a printing plant to print money, but can, in fact, collect it, on the basis of an agreement to collect through the tax system certain funds that we will spend on jointly agreed purposes. As a result, the evaluation of this proposal should be very careful when it comes to short-term and long-term effects, not only on cash public funding, but also on individuals. And the long-term effects on individuals are, in our opinion, negative without other accompanying measures. Regarding the payment of Christmases, since this is a slightly different story, one point needs to be noted. We cannot rely on legislation to allow for a more favourable treatment of a payment that is popularly called Christmas. This payment must be clearly defined in the legislation. Regress is defined through the Labour Relations and Collective Contracts Act. There is no Christmas house, and it needs to be defined in detail. And where specific treatment in the system of contributions is regulated for regression. In the Social Security Contributions Act? No, no, no. In the law on pension and disability insurance. So why regulate Christmas and a different basis for paying contributions in the Social Security Contributions Act if we want the same treatment as for regress? I am not saying that this solution, as far as Christmas is concerned, is not publicly sustainable or cannot be implemented in practice, but I say that it is not properly placed in the right law and that it is not adequately regulated and I have also pointed out this in my opening debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor [[…]] Mr. Zorman, if you'll excuse me. Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you. I thank the Secretary of State that, however, she has also made it public that the measure or proposal for Christmas can be carried out from a public financial point of view, if I have understood it correctly. If I didn't understand her correctly, she'll fix me further. So, we've taken one important step forward. As far as the inclusion of the resolution of a different Christmas tax is concerned, it's not going to be the right law. But also the regression is regulated in some way in this law, and when you have a chapter there that talks about the basis for contributions from work income there also mentions the annual vacation regression and we just added that in the case of extraordinary payments in the form of so.i. Christmases to be charged and paid in the same case as for regress. But you know how many such and other laws have been passed in this National Assembly, when many have warned that this would be wiser to regulate this or that law, but it is a matter of substance, and here the point is that the taxation of Christmas is to be reduced and this law is regulated. This time, if I had previously worked in my first intervention just the Christmas tree, then in the second intervention of social slippers, it is right now to say a few things about the development cap itself, how this rich cap should have been, because some of you have spoken in your views. Every tax system, of course, in a social country such as Slovenia, should be solidarity and fair. Solid in this sense that those we have more to pay than those who have less, but at the same time must also be just, that we put it all together in some dimensions, in some frames. If I am very specific now, then I can say, "Those who have a minimum wage today or, compared to us Members, logically and equally, pay less at the pension register, pay less at the health treasury." At least as far as health care is concerned, we are receiving all the same services. This means that when you go to him, for various reasons he does not ask you what kind of salary you have and what high contributions you pay, but solidarity is ensured that if you pay in this system, you receive the same rights and benefits. That was why the debate that said how this development cap would now reduce health services or health rights for some would not be incorrect, as the principle still applies that we are all entitled to the same rights. One more thing that I find incredible. Those of you talking about a rich hat, don't overlook that rich people already have that hat. I'll be very specific again. For espé, the social or development cap is placed at a level of just over 5,000 euros. All owners of companies, shares or other capital shares are tax-optimised in a variety of ways, as is commonly called. Many times, owners or rich people display a minimum wage, while all other things optimize as much tax as possible, all the way to tax havens. For whom exactly would this development cap be applied? For those who are regularly employed in companies that are not even business owners, but who work in and out of businesses, because of their work, skills, because they innovate, their ideas create new jobs and are in a regular working relationship and have, therefore, a higher salary. You're saying that they're rich people and they're unjustifiable rich people who don't deserve this limit to where they pay social contributions. Let us be very specific, and let us sometimes look at cases in people. It's very simple and popular to say, it's a rich cap, we're not rich people, but the facts are different. Even that development engineer in Akrapovič or elsewhere who would receive such development caps will still pay much more for social contributions than someone who receives minimum wages, even here solidarity is still guaranteed, but from your demogo discussions it is possible to feel that these rich people will not pay any contributions anyway. It is not true, they will continue to pay the highest contributions, only with the difference that somewhere there is a limit, but a limit placed on the border, because neither does the state provide borderless health services and even pensions are limited, they have a limit set. Here I have said that one is solidarity, and thus solidarity is ensured that those who have more pay and justice must also be guaranteed somewhere. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u41	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Get Mr. Luka Moon ready. Here you go, Mr. Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u42	President, thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution states that Slovenia is a legal and social state and, as long as so, of course, the state will have to take care of certain rights that we citizens enjoy, both in the social and health fields. Now, of course, the proposal of the candidates has some logic, and they say they don't complain and offer solutions, but it's not a solution, it's just an idea. The solution would, of course, have been if, on the other hand, what the state would either be through the budget or the health treasury would have brought in another way, that is the solution. What the proposer proposes, Nova Slovenija is only half the solution. You gave an example of how much, for example, one company that pays 812 Euro Christmases, of which a worker receives little less than 500 Euros. That's true, but why are these contributions going? These contributions are about all the social and health rights we enjoy, and let me just list them. Retirement is one of those things. Parental leave, maternity leave, paid hospital leave, unemployment compensation. Tell those who lose their jobs that they will no longer receive, for example, unemployment benefits or that their compensation will be substantially lower. It's not much now. Kindergarten subsidies, free studies, etc. And in the health field. Free healthcare, free medicines, free medical devices. This costs because it is necessary and all of this country pays in some way either from the budget where I say it complements every year the pension allowance so that pensioners receive their pensions and, on the other hand, the health department or the health insurance office of Slovenia, which is financed by health contributions and pays for all the health services that citizens benefit from. This proposal of yours, this idea of yours, of course, is good, but on the other hand we cannot ignore the facts that the contribution to health insurance will result in a drop of 300 million, 300 million less money will occur, in which case the adoption of this law would, of course, come into the health care allowance and 600 million less will come into the pension register. Let me just remind you that the state of Slovenia gives a cca in the cash register every year. A billion 400, a billion 500. This amounts to a billion 500 million additional resources to provide sufficient funds for the payment of pensions. In health care, this is all the more complicated because, of course, healthcare can't be indebted or can't be funded by the state, but with what they get through the contributions, they have to pay for all the services. You have already spoken, of course, a while ago, we spoke or have repeatedly mentioned longer waiting periods. These longer waiting good results, of course, are also due to a low tide, there is already too little inflow into the health register today, and this proposal of yours would still significantly reduce this inflow. Of course, from this title of your proposal, because it does not offer this other solution as I said, but where to replace money in the pension and health allowance, of course we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. He's a magi-proposer. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u44	Slovenia is already covering the loss of the pension allowance and health allowance today and, of course, because of these proposals, these losses may be slightly higher. This will also cover Slovenia or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Only with the difference that these losses are covered today in a way that literally takes some of the money away from you and gives it to cover the loss of these two cash registers, but according to our proposal, by spending this money that the state leaves you, through other taxes, would you pay the state again to cover this minus, only the order is slightly replaced. We advocate that when you spend, pay taxes, and then charge the state treasury; you say that things should be taken away from you at the start, here we are different. About the resources, I'll try to be more specific. We did not want to endanger Slovenia's public financial stability because we are aware that this is important. That's why we didn't make up a law that would demagogically predict the entry into force tomorrow, but we proposed the implementation of this law with the next state budget, which is 1 year. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. By 2018, we have some time to adjust and adapt certain things to cover this smaller cake that the country would collect because of leaving more in their pockets. You've already talked about some things today. I also remember you talking about how tax receipts will bring more into the state budget. This may be an additional source, it is said, of the persecution of the grey economy, this is an additional charge to the state budget. Today, it has been said several times that only the existing tax debt in Slovenia is such that it would practically cover for one year all this loss caused by these measures. And another thing that everyone in this debate is neglecting is that dynamic calculations need to be done. So, the ministry charged 800 million, we charged 500 million, but it's all conditioned by how many additional inflows there will be. The ministry has been more in conservative calculations, but we are more optimistic about creating more jobs from this title. And each job more represents an additional source of income for the country. That's why we need to look at the whole picture.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u45	Here you go, replica, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you, Chairman. I don't think my colleague Tonin understood me very well. I said there's not enough inflows to the pension and medical bills already. And what he is saying is that the loss of cashiers, which would have been further created if their bill were adopted, would have been paid by the State. Where, if it's too small now? We have a solidarity system in Slovenia, and as long as we have a solidarity system, it is known that those with more inflows pay in some way for those with smaller inflows. Whether we want to have America, where people, say, sleep under a bridge, without health insurance, can't go to a doctor or a hospital, and we have some that are normal. We do not have this in Slovenia because we are a social state and we make sure that this is the case. That's the biggest difference. And one more thing. Some interesting logic is present with the Slovenians – on the one hand we accuse the country of how expensive it is and how it takes it and how much it takes it, but as soon as we get to a situation when we need something, we say the state must give it, but we forgot about it before that, but we didn't give something to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Proposer, please, mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u48	This is a real parliamentary debate, and I enjoy to exchange our views that this is not an anemic debate. Comrade Zorman, I understand exactly what you're saying. I understand that pension and health bills are already producing a minus and that the state has to pay for these cash registers today. The only difference between us is that you estimate that this minus can be covered and this cashier can only be filled with additional taxes, if I am very specific, so defend Desus and the United Left, thus increasing the contribution rates, so that this kind of thing can be filled, but my point is that with new jobs, so if more people have jobs, these things will be filled faster. If there were three employees in the past to one pensioner, this ratio is now lower than 1 to 1.5. And we invariably raise taxes to fill all the downs in state cash registers, I think that we have already exceeded this point and that we need to think about ways to get more people to pay in these cash registers. Not the ones who pay even more off. That's the basic point. And perhaps those who will discuss today also the light of what the Prime Minister is saying and who has a special inscription before them to seek solutions, but today I would like to hear from fellow Members what your suggestions are? Maybe the Social Democrats have laid down something they have proposed, put together, try to be proactive, not only are you telling New Slovenia you are wrong, we disagree with you, everything will go into "zugunde" but let's, together, look for solutions and tell us how you would solve this problem and what you would do to make people have more in your pocket. That's the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go, Mr. Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Now with proposals like this before us, we need to first look at the state of the country and this situation could not be more eloquent. We now have half the pensioners who receive such small pensions that they do not even allow them to exist. We have one third of the pensions financed from the budget because there is not enough money in the budget. We have 200,000 people at this point in health care waiting in line to get to a doctor so they can cure their problems. It's a condition. The situation is that both pension and medical checkbooks are fed, empty and unable to provide, they cannot provide for those who need their help. The proposal, which is essentially quite easy to reduce inflows into these two cash registers by an additional billion and 17% of all assets. This means nothing more than a further decline in the quality of health care, a further reduction in pensions, a further vacation of the state treasury. I agree with you, Mr Tonin, money doesn't grow on trees, absolutely. This is the first matter to be said in doing so, and this is the main reason why we cannot support this proposal in the United Left. Now, another thing to say is that these myths are about creating new jobs and economic growth that this proposal is supposed to bring. If they weren't superficial, we could look at some data for Slovenia. For example, Banka Slovenije issued a report in 2013 that I mentioned earlier, which very clearly explains what multipliers are like: If state consumption rises by 1% of GDP, it is said that if 1% of GDP were raised more and invested or the country would spend it, it would mean 1.6% increase in private consumption, 1.1% increase in investment and 1.6% increase in GDP. On the other hand, because of the need to collect this money, 1% of the increase in taxes would mean that GDP is reduced by 0.4%, private consumption by 0.05% and investment by 0.35%. So we'd be all over the place with this kind of action on the green branch. On the other hand, if we take a picture of the effect of tax cuts, private consumption will probably go up very little, as this multiplier also shows, and somehow very little will be known on GDP. In the end, the former development minister of the first Janševa government, Jože P. Damian, who, in fact, described in Friday's annex the development of his thoughts in recent years and said very clearly that he was wrong about the efficiency of taxes in promoting the economy. [[End of discussion warning sign]] I quote: "The experiment of ZUJF and the reduction of profit tax are expected to bring economic growth. But the opposite followed, a shift from a trend of two-year growth to a new recession and a huge increase in the gap in the budget [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Sorry. [[…]] Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I understand the New Slovenia proposal mainly as a shortcut, how to start by reducing the social state and how to start by abolishing solidarity. Above all, I think that you have taken the wrong side of the problem by reducing contributions. Of course, the idea itself is not innovative, this has already happened once, in 1996, when the contributions were reduced to pension and disability insurance. And for a few years, this drop replaced the tax on paid wages, which ended between 2006 and 2009, and the result, of course the result is on the palm, poverty has increased. Today, we have many people who, of course, can't finish off, and in fact you would just make this situation even worse. Are you defending, of course, made worse by what? You advocate, of course, that with your proposal people would get more in their pocket. In some ways you would get more in your pocket, but at the same time do not tell them how much, on the other hand, at the expense of reducing social contributions, true health care and the like could be significantly more than you would have given them with your proposal. How much will health reforms treated in this way also cost according to your proposal? Much more than you're putting them in your pocket. Of course, it's a good idea on its own. Moreover, we are also aware of the need to increase the competitiveness of the economy. But are the contributions exactly right or the fastest way? Probably the fastest, but not the right, given that the competitiveness of the economy depends on many other conditions. And not least, if we're looking at it, I don't know why we're not interested in foreign investors and investors. Surely this is not only a starting point in contributions, but we have a lot of other problems, long-term bureaucratic procedures, labour legislation, spatial legislation, management and interference with management systems. Finally, we cannot commend ourselves, at least according to the data, even after the efficiency of the work itself, it is said that the potential for improving the competitiveness of the economy in all other areas where the solution is not proposed significantly more. But you went to the simplest and for the people, for the people of Slovenia the most harmful solution. It is said to reduce the social state to account for the appearance of a liked proposal, of course to lower or insert a social hat up and down. In addition, I think it is a proposed amendment, which constitutes an essential intervention in the social security system, without adequate solutions in the areas I have mentioned, pensions, health care, indeed an unworthy solution. It's basically a social-state assassination. It's confessed but not admitted. Of course, I would expect significantly different solutions to improve competitiveness, especially with regard to the group of people you are defending and which I believe are probably not in the richest category. I think it is important to this extent that it also seems unworthy for us to try to impose restrictions on the social state somewhere through the side doors. And that we need a much broader social consensus and a wider debate for such a question, people who will, of course, know and understand this issue. Because I believe, of course, that many people don't know enough or don't know enough what a social hat means. Perhaps to the end, colleague Horvat presented the booklet, presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group the booklet showed Slovenians are, we are, we have solutions. We're Slovenians for the solutions you're proposing, but no thanks because I don't think they're good and they're hurting people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, colleagues. I'm sure we almost all agree that work is too taxed. On the other hand, the Social Democrats point out that profits are undertaxed. Therefore, I believe that the right solution is to partly increase and balance taxes on the other hand when reducing labour taxes, namely on the capital side and on the profits side. Instead of tax reliefs for those who already receive the highest income, I believe that it is more appropriate, as we stand for the Social Democrats, to increase the taxation of profits to a European comparable level while at the same time reforming the income classes, which would put a more fair burden on the middle population. So we want to introduce 34 [[?]] a percentage income class that would unload the upper middle class while raising the ceiling for taxation of the 27% income class to EUR 30,000, which would mean higher net wage for the middle class. The New Slovenia proposal would mention a reduction in revenues for health and pension bills, even for 490 million, according to the Government's estimate of even EUR 760 million, which would mean that the social security of employees, i.e. lower pensions and a threatened public health system, is at risk at the expense of slightly higher net wages. If we have to understand that there is an increasing inequality when a handful of people own more than many others together certainly is not the right way. I will take, as our party, the Social Democrats for fairer taxes and a stronger middle class, but not for the privileges of the richest, of course, proposed law, so I cannot support it. If, for example, I recall a little of 2007 when the tax reform was introduced by Mr Bayuk, who introduced fewer classes, a 41 percentage class was set up low and this relief cost the budget of EUR 980 million. So much for thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko has the floor to prepare for Mrs Vojka Šergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Dear Secretary of State. I must say that I have heard many statements or statements today that I absolutely cannot agree with. Here we can see that we have different, very different views on how things are supposed to work in Slovenia. The first thing I want is what has been repeatedly exposed to reducing the social state. I'm asking you nicely, where do you come up with such claims? I personally assess that the economy is what should be the center of everything, the backbone of everything, of a well-functioning economy depends on how things will work in the country. It is up to those people who are employed to decide how much comes into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, depending on what kind of education we have, what kind of health care we have, how we can guarantee security in our country and so on. But what's going on with us? With us, however, it is those who work and, of course, the real sector that want to be the most burdensome. Of course, we are all very proud of economic growth. And who is he and will be deserved by the predictions? Exporters. Who are they? These are companies, economists. We are all committed, the economy, to ensuring competitiveness. Yeah, how, in a way to put extra pressure on them. The economy needs to be unloaded. You all agree that wages are absolutely overtaxed, but they would not be burdened, under the pretext of endangering the social state. Total absurdity. How many unemployed do we have today? Around 113 thousand, I don't know the exact number right now. How many did we have in the pre-crisis period?Oh, my God! Almost 50,000 jobless people less. Where these unemployed people will be employed, it is probably in everyone’s interest that all these people work. Where are they gonna get a job?Oh, my God! Whether you will hire them in the public sector to reduce unemployment, or whether the goal is for these people to work in the real sector, in the economy. When the economy becomes employed, yes, it will become a bit burdensome on the other side. And lower wage taxation is certainly due to the fact that the economy will start employment in order to increase jobs. But of course, your attitude is different. You've got employers, I don't know, for con artists, just companies taking down bankruptcy. Have you asked yourself how many state-owned companies went bankrupt and why they went bankrupt? Of course, you probably don't want to do this. But we'd have extra taxes. What taxes? A real estate tax or a gas cent, which is also a tax. Taxable cashiers, total nonsense. Margaret Thatcher came to my mind, which says something like this: The problem with socialism is that sooner than later the money of others is running out. And it also seems to me that sometimes he is in Slovenia, even though we are no longer in socialism. And I would really like everyone to finally see together that the only solution is to unload the economy. Both tax and administrative. Economists have been pointing out this for years, pointing out that labour taxation is too high. You all agree, and this is not least agreed by the employees, because when they get the payment sheets they see very well what is the net and what comes on their transaction account, what is written as gross wages. And let me remind you, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly mentioned that wages are too taxed and even in the coalition contract you have written this down, although obviously part of the coalition has already forgotten that. I estimate that Slovenia is extremely underdeveloped, you have spoken many times, you want a developing Slovenia. What is developmental is that the employees, to get 600 euros of net salary, then to be the cost of the employer, or to give the country 300 euros, because it costs about 900 euros, I am not talking about the exact amount, but the indicative amount. For a net amount of thousands of euros, it gives the country 700 euros. However, if we get to the net amount of EUR 2 000, it means that together the other gross is more than EUR 2 000, which means that in the case of the country, with such a salary, such wages are of course very little in Slovenia, but in such cases the state deserves more than the worker. But this is for Desus' colleagues, these are, I don't know, rich hats you invented here today. And I really wonder whether this is a fair system or with the amendments proposed by the proposal we are threatening solidarity, by no means, still exists, it is a developmental stimulus what we have today is not. This proposal would at least slightly correct whether our current system is blocking or not entrepreneurship. Answer that question for yourself. Or blocking the entry of foreign investors into Slovenia. What they say most of the time is too high. It's just the cost of work. Therefore, Slovenia, as a location for the entry of foreign investors, is not appropriate. Finally, we wonder if he is aware of honesty itself. Why? Because he punishes those who are most productive, those who work the most. And once again, it's not about solidarity. We still have a very solid reception. If we were to fully accept these proposals, which were presented here today. The OECD study has now been mentioned. The OECD is an organisation of developed countries. And here we are in the ninth place after the workload, 42.5%. The average is 36%. Very much. And we've heard that Austria and Germany have more taxed. Yes, you do, but you know, I'm a little closer to the Austrian border, and there's a lot of day-to-day migrants working in Austria, and very high rates get with Furs because they have to pay the difference in income. Why? Because with us very quickly, according to what they get, they fall into that, I'll say, this fixed highest income class. And then we look at the other side, they have the 13th, the 14th salary. How much is this taxed in Austria? Six percent. It's like we're regressing the Christmas tree, we have a comparison. So how other countries work. Much more stimulating, much more developmental, not like us. Personally, I'm just assessing that wages would actually make a huge difference by raising a net salary. On the one hand, we'd have employees, those who work, more money. This money would absolutely be spent. State, we'd definitely spend it. The country would have received more from VAT. The economy would have more work and, finally, if we had a little less taxed work, we would also have less black work and would have less unfair competition and would not need the tax registers we have today, because those who work in black anyway will not get because they do not have registered activities. And what else would have happened? Professionally qualified people wouldn't go abroad. Ask yourself a few questions and ask yourself, on the other hand, how one such qualified staff has become a country, has become Slovenia. From kindergarten, elementary school, high school and colleges forward and when it comes to the period when something starts to return to the budget, it goes away. I normally leave. And I'll read to you what's 15. 9. 2014 at the hearing said Minister Maramor. We are in fourth place among the EU countries with our contributions. He was talking about a permanent income class of 41%. The upper income class, when you get there, is very heavily taxed. It's taxation of the good. We actually have those who are studying, who are trying, who are innovative, who are internationally open and so on and they deserve and we hit them immediately. Of course, it can be perfectly fine if you are in some environment and where people can't go, but the international environment is that they are more valued and less taxed and therefore better actually leave. That's what your minister said. And how I agree with him. That is precisely why we should do more in this direction. Then let's take a look at the company. You think they're bad guys. But you know, companies want to pay extra employees, they want to give them Christmas. We've heard of it, not a lot of Christmas businesses. I'd give a lot of money if this Christmas wasn't so taxed. Sometimes they don't want employees to, because then they're deprived of a lot of other benefits, from paying kindergartens, children's allowances, etc., because they fall into one of the upper classes right away. As I said before, a reduction in labour taxation would certainly encourage employers to create new jobs and, of course, this is also crucial for investors who go where the environment is more favourable for them and how they would need them in Slovenia, and how they would need them. This proposal, which was made by the applicant, is certainly going in the right direction. Perhaps it is not ideal that it is a very reasonable time to enter into force 1. 1st year 2018. Well, it's enough time to renegotiate and find a decent solution. And I absolutely appreciate it, it's not a shortcut, but it's the only right direction in the long run. In fact, I was greatly disturbed by this government response, which reads: "It is necessary to establish that the proposal as set out represents a large loss of public-financial revenues, which is not acceptable in terms of financial sustainability. More or less, what would we get more in the cash register and, after all, what would we do less out of this joint cash register? I believe that we all agree that we would like to spend less on social transfers, because people would have employees, and these people would also put in our cash registers, and in this way I do not see any danger to either pension or medical bills. Once again, this proposal may not be completely complete but it certainly is a step in the right direction, so I absolutely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor to prepare Mrs. Mag. Jana Jenko. Here you go, Mrs. Private Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to respond to my colleague's discussion, and I would like to stress here in particular that we do not underestimate the SMC's economists, that we do not think about entrepreneurs being phallots and we just want such legislation to be adopted, which somehow balances both on the one hand the social partners and on the other hand entrepreneurship. I think that the goal and must be the goal of all of us in Parliament, in particular, to take care of all segments of people. Because everyone in their area needs a quality life in this country. That is why I do not think we should discuss in this direction, but that we are one distinctly opposed and underestimating entrepreneurs, and that is indeed not, no. We advocate that they too have a good basis for their business. In the SMC, we understand the intention of the proposer to reduce the workload. We also support this objective in principle, but, as I said in the introduction, it is necessary to take structural measures first that will reduce public spending and somehow balance it. This is the only way to reduce the negative impact on public finances, as some indicative assessment of the implications for both pension and health care is over €500 million. I don't think we can afford to make such an imbalance in public finances right now. The adoption of such a law would also be a major threat to the public finances themselves, of course also observed by international institutions. The international institutions would take this threat to public finances very seriously, but what would be the consequences? Encouragement and additional indebtedness of the State. As a result, this means borrowing banks and this certainly would not have a positive impact on the functioning of the economy. If, on the one hand, we facilitate and relieve the work and, on the other hand, encourage debt and make it difficult for the economy to be indebted, I think we would do the damage again. It is therefore necessary to take this seriously with consideration. In line with the fiscal rule, which somehow balances the measures between itself and the structural deficit, it must also not increase as a result of the fiscal rule. Therefore, in the Modern Centre Party, we are primarily committed to tax restructuring. Reducing the burden of work will require more complex, simultaneous, coordinated measures, more areas need to be looked at and balanced here. These measures would also require, at least that is my opinion, a broader social and political consensus. In reducing the burden of work, we must also have a comparable level of social security; we must ensure the sustainability of public finances, including pension and health bills. There is also a need to ensure the positive impact of taxes and social security contributions. In short, in the Modern Centre Party, we believe that we need dialogue, consensus, cooperation, for the good of people. And on this occasion, I also invite the proposer that, as we proceed to the restructuring of taxes, we begin to cooperate well, to listen and also to try to maximize these taxes for the benefit of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Jana Jenko. Get Mr. Joseph Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The first thing that came to my mind when I read the bill, I thought, but perhaps Mr Tonin wants to raise his salary, because by lowering his contributions, the tax contributions would also be reduced for Members. Maybe he wants to rebuild the apartment, buy a weekend out of it at the expense of the citizens of this saved money. Indeed, as the bill states, all engineers do not have such salaries and would not have them, unfortunately. They're going out, maybe even because of the bad conditions in working groups, maybe that's the biggest reason. Maybe factories are underinvesting in development. As early as 1995, the contribution rate for pension and health insurance to companies had fallen from 15.5 to 8.85 %. What did companies do with this saved money? If I only take Pekko, he obviously didn't go into development because they died in this area, they didn't update. With this proposal, pensions would be impoverished by about 600 million and health care for about 300 million. So in order to preserve the social situation as it is now, at this level, this should contribute to the budget. There's no money in the budget either. We are always "buckling" when we adopt the budget, which ministry, whose items will be reduced and which really urgently need to be increased. And social security needs to be maintained. With this proposal, there will be no money in the budget and neither will there be money in the cash registers. Pecko only needed $2 million at the time, but he didn't get it. Only $2 million. And here we would have made the cashier's allowance of 900 million. We didn't get that money in Pek, so today the workers are on the road. Mrs. Bratuškova said that we are here two MPs from Tržič. Exactly, however, let me remind her that I was also an MP when she ruled when she was the Prime Minister. At that time, I called two meetings, one board meeting and one National Assembly meeting. She wasn't fond of saving Peck. She left the matter to Mr. Music. And she invested $40 million in Cimos. She couldn't invest $2 million in Peco. Let's see where Cimos is today. Money went to get mushrooms, I guess. What she did during her term in Tržič was clearly intended only to recruit. Let's not give him a hard time about it. This was not the way, nor did she want to come to Tržič to familiarize herself with the situation in Pek. I am not in favour of this bill, as this would primarily give me a higher layer. I'd stay down on the same or worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was afraid that the discussion would go to a personal level, that the discussion would also go as an attack on the late Minister Dr. Andre Bajuk, the best finance minister of the past 25 years, but this is the image of some here present. 8 of the 12 richest Slovenians have businesses, live and work outside Slovenia. Does that tell you anything? One half of the pensioners can't survive a month, said Luka Moon. That's a fact, I sign. Almost 50,000 people on minimum wage and the trend is increasing. That's the statistics. We agree with that. We agree that money doesn't grow in trees. And to me, a very kind Member, I really appreciate her, my colleague Marinka Levicar asked a key question today: Where are we going to take her? I'm just adding that we're going to fund the social state. We're all for the welfare state. We are all in favour of respect for the Constitution, including the fiscal rule, which we cannot respect and enforce because you have not yet come up with a proposal for a fiscal council, a colleague and a colleague from the SMC. I'll support the tax restructuring. Where you have it in the regulatory plan of work of the Government for 2016 and 2017. The Austrians also changed the income scale. The one who had and has 2,500 gross will receive 500 euros more at the annual level. We changed it, too. With the same grossness, you will receive €97 more at our annual level. These are differences, colleagues and colleagues, and it is therefore clear what Gini's coefficient tells us that we are a very egalitarian society. But sadly, egalitarian in poverty. Check out the e-mails today, colleagues and colleagues, professors, professors from the Faculty of Social Work are responsible for one institution or one lady who is responsible for poverty in our country. First Prime Minister of the Government, second Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, equal opportunities, family and so on and also finance minister. That's what the professors are writing, and they're saying that they probably didn't buy this address. Colleagues and colleagues, sometimes economically, they only competed with corporations, economic corporations. Today, countries are competing with each other, so the institutions of countries, including Slovenia, must make a competitive business environment. Aya, where are we on our scale? Have you heard of a slim state? Have you ever heard of optimisation of the public sector, the state sector. There's money. I'll back him up if he's smart, real estate tax. Bring it in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I understand and welcome the intention of the proposer, who puts this law into a kind of liking, at first sight, a proposal. It is, however, that this desire to reduce the burden of work, which offers its vision of this problem, may have another purpose for our public finances and therefore we support this direction in the SMC as such. However, we must say that there is one great danger here, namely the risk of negative consequences, for public finances, for social, for health and for pensions. We must not forget, however, that we have all introduced a common golden fiscal rule, and this proposal by NSI would, in some grave assessment, constitute an increase of 1% to 2% of the structural deficit, which is unfortunately not acceptable at this time. I certainly agree that these changes are clearly needed so structurally, as comprehensive as we say, and that this matter is too long, we can say through the entire history of Slovenia. The task of this Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance is to work towards reducing the tax burden of work, and we will also insist and expect some serious and concrete work in the SMC and measures are meant in this direction. I hope that, among others, the NSIs will be invited in the future with all other stakeholders to make constructive proposals to address this problem. If we are talking about this, it is also necessary to say that changes in the area of public charges must actually improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment, in particular by removing administrative burdens, by restructuring the burden of public duties and, on the other hand, ensuring stable and predictable public financial revenues. If I finish. Reaching the workload is one of the priorities of the government and also the work of the last Ministry of Finance. Therefore, with general systemic measures and other tax measures, it is necessary to support the possibility of stable further economic growth, and unfortunately we cannot support this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Tillen Christmas has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I think it's developed a rather interesting debate, which I think is good. Initially, I would like to begin with the approach taken by NSI before this meeting. I also had this opportunity to be presented to me with their proposal, so that we could speak about it at the end of the day in the House, so I certainly consider this part to be good and positive. As far as the slipper and the cap are concerned, I've already said this in the parliamentary position. As far as this Christmas is concerned. It's heading in some direction that we've been thinking about. Their solution is, which is the advantages or features for my notions above all, that it is somehow a simple, familiar way, as it has been done, as it has been said, a regress is saved, perhaps in a certain element even, one part is better, because it foresees an average salary for the previous year, which means that it does not vary it for you every month. Here, however, it is necessary to say that the determined solutions are interesting and we will probably still talk about them, but still, why not support, so that maybe we can finish the matter, because as SMC, this part is still slightly different. One attempt was somehow last year at the end of the year, but I think it was unfortunate, given that we did not properly harmonise it before it came to the public and it was there that we would still like to put it in a slightly different way, because we think it would be more effective in this way. As far as one comment is concerned, I think it was on the part of my colleague Pogačnik that the proposal goes 80% in the right direction. I think, however, given the need to balance public finances, if 80% is in the right direction and if this is a billion being the right approximate effects, it says, somehow, then let go of some 200 million, it says, we have a solution on the expenditure side and this solution looks something like that. You have Back Jon, you cut him, and he's still got that haircut he always has, and you send him out in winter at minus 20, he'll freeze, so he freezes our pension system as well as freezes our health system. I don't think 80% is probably one part, but it's not that far-reaching. Then another matter that was also exposed to Austria. This effect for €5 billion, however, has to be said, Austria, if we go to see comparative data for 2013, it has had, as far as taxes are concerned, how much of the country's final collection is 43.4%. Slovenia 37,3. If Austria wanted to come to the same ratios as the Republic of Slovenia in relative terms, it should reduce the tax rate by more than EUR 25 billion, it reduced by 5 billion. Which means, as you can see, there are 5 billion in the eyes of someone from the Republic of Slovenia, but Austria has about 330 billion GDP there, and we are there at about 40. I mean, we still have to put things in a relationship when we talk about numbers. It is said that Austria has reduced, but far from coming to our level, we are talking about almost, or around, 5 percent of the difference, which is not enough. Then, if we are to move forward, as far as the wealthy Slovenians are running abroad, it is still necessary to say that, irrespective of the country in which this richest structure somehow runs abroad. It's an international practice. You can also have countries that do not have taxes at all, but run abroad because they protect their assets, there are other reasons here, it is legitimate, where it is not legal but certain things will be resolved, and I think that here Slovenia is still someone who is working, doing good steps in this area, this is not the last thing the OECD experts have told us 14 days ago that Slovenia is one of the more proactive in the field of BEPS, that is to say, this is the area where we are dealing with the erosion of the tax base for the purposes of corporate income tax. It will also be very important for that area, at least in the European Union area, to eliminate the unfair practices used by some countries. So there's going to be steps forward and there's going to be some effects. So, as far as it is concerned, I, too, what has been said, fully agree with whoever you ask whether you would like to pay less taxes will say yes, or now you will ask the Member or anyone else. But, on the other hand, especially when it comes to contributions, we need to look at what has already been highlighted more than once today, the contributions are linked to certain rights, to some basket that exists, we have set it up, and given that, as far as our policy is concerned, we somehow agree that it should be maintained, of course optimized and so on, prevent abuse, but we remain a social state, it means that on the other hand, the financing of the social state must remain in one way or another, because if it cannot be. Then again, the one that repeats itself, the reduction of taxes, the combined growth of GDP. I mean, there's a fellow moon, today I agree with him, said a study by Banka Slovenije. But these studies, international ones, there's one small sea, and that's where it's found. It is true that there is no correlation on the long run between you lower taxes and higher GDP growth or, I don't know, some employment and so on. This link does not exist, so this does not mean that we do not support changes in the structure and so on, it just means that we cannot take this as an argument when we decide how we will structure taxes, because we do not abstain from practical or, after all, even theoretical judgement. After that, this social market model has been mentioned several times, and this is about Germany, this is about Austria where this model is supposed to be successful, these countries are successful, but again, Germany has 39.6% of GDP, it is said, taken in some way by the state, Austria, as already said, 43.4, Slovenia 37.3. This is what I am saying for 2013, which means that although they have this social market model, this does not mean that they have a significantly lower share of taxes in GDP, by no means, means that they actually have a slightly higher share of taxes, but they have a different relationship. Perhaps in certain elements it is more stimulating, and that is why such matters cannot be done, as far as reform is concerned, overnight, because we need to look at which things exist where they already exist, what works, what doesn't work, and what works abroad could work for us. Because, hand to heart, on certain things we are Slovenians, after all somehow special, it was said, yes, lower taxes, consumption will rise. The Slovenians in this are actually a little bit specific because we relatively much put in, I don't know, socks, at a bank, wherever. We're just saving more money than the others. In some consumer companies, it would probably have been more effective in reducing taxes than in some other countries if this short-term one was said to exist, but in Slovenia the short-term impact on consumption would have been lower. We are as we are, we may be a little more afraid, we are a little smaller, a little more conservative, etc., and we save a lot. This is also confirmed by statistics. So that I also want a very short session, given that we have a lot of them, but now we've gone up the competitiveness ladder for eleven cities, since we've finally referred here to go, I think there's something down in the past years, so that might still be a bit of an exposure. And if we move on now. One thing happened here several times. I was not in politics before, it is said, I was in entrepreneurship or, as it is called, in the economy, and I remember NSI, who often said that he had left Slovenia for bureaucracy because he had waited more than a year to agree on a permit to build a hall. Now you have to think a little bit about yourself, you've been repeating this phrase since 2011. He said it, I think it was spring 211. Then it was said that in autumn 2011 he would start building there across the border. I'm driving from Kopra up to Nova Gorica, where I have a non-stop home for the elderly, and I look every now and then at that airport as this hall progresses. Ten. Seven. 2014 the building of the hall finally began. And it was said, it's waiting for us with open arms, so we'll have a building permit, there's no bureaucracy, there's everything going on, those who live by the border, and we know about how Italy works, we know that a lot of entrepreneurs are running to Slovenia, because if anyone knows what bureaucracy is, they know it. Now, while certain reforms are being made on a higher political level, which are taking a smart path in my direction, but as far as bureaucracy is concerned, if anyone wants to meet with bureaucracy, something to learn, I think it is possible to look at it a little, because Slovenia thinks that we are still better as far as this is concerned. [[Incomprehensible]] So yes, and now it's been said, that's 14. 1st I follow the news, finishes, 14. 1. 2016, finishes the factory in Italy, will start in spring. From 2011 to today, I think that Slovenia will also move. But it's true that it wasn't the only move, after all, it wasn't true, it was a certain license that if you were to produce, you could sell it in the United States. There are other reasons, I think, but as an entrepreneur, he has all the legitimate right to decide, he has received quite a few subsidies from the state budget, so that entrepreneurship and innovation are stimulated, it was millions of euros, but in the end he has decided as he has decided, and I hope that he is doing well or that he will succeed. Because in the end, even those who drive across the border from Slovenia are likely to work there, they will have some of this. As you know, in Italy, as far as wages are concerned, the labour force, to be much more favourable there, is not, because you probably have not yet heard anyone working in Italy to complain about getting a ticket at the end, as is the case with those working in Austria. Why? Because there are higher tax rates and there is no need to pay in Slovenia because it has already paid so much in Italy. So that somehow, so as far as employment is concerned, so these things, the relationship, what's good about us, what's bad about us. Still, a little consideration needs to be given, a little deeper discussion and understanding, really, to figure out what's really wrong. What's bad about us, which isn't a lot of things, is that we have to fix them, which is good for us, we have to try to keep them. So, that's true. [[Incomprehensible]] Then let's go. One thing that may have disturbed me a little. This increase in employment when taxes are reduced. We have in the area of social contributions or, say, health care, pensions and so on, we have a structural deficit. Structural deficit is that deficit that you're left with no matter where you're in the cycle. Which means if we had full employment, we'd still have a minus, which means that this is a structural problem, it's not a problem that you solve, so let's say you actually solve it, I think you're going to save it with more people, it's going to work. He'll get away with it, but with the simultaneous cuts in contributions, social contributions, you didn't cut the hole. It is true, however, that certain items in the budgets would have been better for us and I agree, we must all work to raise employment. I think that work is being done in this area, including from the budget, it is clear that certain transfers are intended to stimulate, increase employment, etc., which means that work is being done, jobs are being created and we hope everyone here, I think on both sides that this employment will grow as soon as possible to this extent, that public finances will also become more sustainable, that there will be more investment, that there will be more for the police, that there will be more for the military, health and so on, for all who are working or working in this system or in this country. So then it was also said that those who pay taxes are always being beaten, but those who are not now are, we have taken some measures as far as this is concerned, one of them was the tax collector. [[…]] Tax registers are as one of the measures said. They make it easier to control, to inform control, and so on, so that with fewer people on financial board or with such numbers of people, much more can be done. It is said, and that those who do not violate them no longer suffer in some way by checks, that they are getting time taken up, that they do not have time to deal with their business because we do not know if they are really doing something wrong or do not have to go there in any way to look and check. With such receptions of information in tax control, a good step has been taken for me not only for the country but also for the taxpayers, so that those in whom the vast majority of the works are fair do not actually deal with them and they do not deal with the tax administration. And for those of you who are making problems that are more risky, and thus overcapacity can be directed at them. More than once, those who do not have registered activities are employed in black and so on. It was also intended to release part of the tax inspectors and other inspectors so that they could start dealing with them. On a daily basis. That's what we're missing, people in the field. And if we move forward as far as dynamic calculations are concerned, the models that have been made are meant to determine what effect the reduction of taxes on what happens on GDP has, in principle, been dynamic models so well, the financial management does not use them at this point, it has made some calculation. However, at the final stage, even if we were to use dynamic models, we could not reach a significant variety of conclusions in this area. Because a dynamic model for my concepts can actually influence in a few percent, but it cannot substantially change some of the basic findings that were made on the basis of the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, those that I think Luke mentioned earlier that they were doing their job, we also made some of our own, and we came up with numbers there. So that's not something that would fall off of an amp somewhere. It's some logic of how things work. If we're going to do something else to end it all together, no, there's actually something else, and we also have time to keep going, I see. [[…]] What makes us think that the social state would be shrinking has been said? I think that if the level of contributions paid falls and certain rights are linked to the contributions, the direct consequence is that the social state is falling. That's one plus one is two, there's no higher mathematics here. You can't do that, even if you don't want to turn your head, it doesn't work. The fact that the economy is the backbone of everything, I think we agree, here we are, all of us. The economy generates added value and so on, the country is a service that needs to deliver its services as optimally as possible, we are not the most optimal yet, which is also clear, but it is working to make it more optimal. So, even when it was said, I think that Margaret Thatcher was told that the state of socialism was when the money of others ran out. This problem is the same regardless of the system, you also have it in capitalism. After the high tax evasion of foreign investors, in addition to the tax rates, is a matter of legal certainty, but now, if we go solely to the tax area, of course the stability and transparency of a tax system is here. And taxes aren't the highest on this scale if someone decides to invest in a country or not. They are there, they are important, they are, say, 5th or 7th I don't know which city but you have some other issues that we have here in this country to settle, but it is true that at the same time we can improve the tax system. And that's what this is all about. That's it. As far as this paradox is concerned, lower taxes – less grey economy. I think we've heard this a number of times in this room that it's empirically proven that it's not true. By repeating again, lower taxes do not mean less grey economy because it does not have this correlation. It doesn't exist. You can calculate it, but you don't get it. Almost, if I was so manipulative, I'd say it's the other way around. But on paper, if you do it quickly really looks like this, but it's not true, because if a country has low tax rates, then usually it's also bad regulation, bad control and so on and then it's a reason to grow a gray economy, even though it has extremely low taxes. So, as far as these expenses are concerned, abroad, as has been said. I've been looking at this data in 2014. 14,300 people have moved out. 13,800 of them moved in. It is said that, given that we have a single European market and that we are working on the mobility of the labour force and everything is growing, the fact is that this will go up. However, it is important that there should be no more differences between the tide and the tide. The difference is currently unknown. As some come to us, especially from the south and so on, as well as from our country come, I don't know about northern countries, and in time they may even come back, round up, share that knowledge with us, and so on, and will probably be able to make a creative contribution to this society and our GDP. So, yes, we don't have a business for villains, as was said. The State must endeavour to ensure that companies also have a relatively good environment in relation to workers, it is said that they have paid maternity allowance, that they have some sick leave, that is, if they are in the hospital for more than days, that the country enters and helps to make workers as healthy as possible, as vital as possible, as long as possible, contribute to the added value of the company. It is said that these workers have in some way a single network, some social security as far as they can, because they are somehow less concerned and more concerned with the one, is said to be their own private life, on the one hand. On the other hand, they give as much of themselves as possible to those who are employed or in a country or wherever they work. So that now I would somehow conclude with the fact that, as far as our SMC programme is concerned, we have already said in the introduction, and here are some certain differences in the thoughts that we have, which is normal, both between I think coalition, even with opposition, and here we will have to look for some arrangements, as always, as in every democracy. But given that we are working closely together, regardless of what is happening in the media and how it is reported, at least as far as the National Assembly is concerned, I must say that this cooperation is solid, we are talking to each other, and I believe that we will bring these changes together to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone again. When we talk about tax reforms, however, it is necessary to summarise some of the data that very clearly speak about the fact that capital taxation in Slovenia is very low. If we look at the structure or say economic impact, in fact, it is only 3.7% of the capital tax, while we meet in the field of labour taxation, also a rate of 18, 19%, 17%, in short, a very high difference. I think that we should really look here for solutions for the future, how to actually carry out the tax reform as fairly as possible, if we can call it that, but surely one of the essential measures is that the income classes are expanded and the middle class is also burdened with this, and it also increases or gives employers the opportunity to pay more than average wages because they will be less taxed due to these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, the representative of the government, mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Undoubtedly, the issue of burdening labour costs with public charges is a question that needs to be addressed and proposed solutions that will address those labour costs segments that are above average and that make the Slovenian business environment uncompetitively targeted. At the same time, however, it is necessary to offer a second side of how this reduction of burdens will affect rights, on the basis of which contributions are mainly accounted for. For this reason, the Government considers that this issue needs to be examined in its entirety, that we should all be asked about all the consequences that changing the burden of labour costs also brings to social security systems in that country. We want such a comprehensive debate and we want the National Assembly to discuss both elements of this system at the same time. I would like to focus on some more discussions in the last part of today's debate. Once again, the State budget by transfer provides additional revenue only to pension funds, due to the history when employers' contributions to pension protection have been reduced and have been replaced or a tax on paid salaries has been imposed instead. Only transfers to those insured who are exempt from contributions due to the various legal provisions shall contribute to the health Treasury State budget. There is no general transfer to cover, as has been stated, losses to the health treasury from the state budget. As far as Christmas is concerned, I should like to point out that the cited provision of the Social Security Contributions Act has been repealed by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It is therefore not possible to supplement it in this law, but the content should be regulated in the law dealing with the matter if we are to agree that this content should be addressed. The tax debt was mentioned. Yes, the total tax debt to all four public finances amounts to around 400 billion, of which more than half of the debt recorded in insolvency proceedings is either bankruptcy or forced settlement procedures. The poor half is so-called active debt, but this is a debt that has been accumulated in 10 years. This is not income or income that you collect and then you have it every year. Therefore, it is not appropriate to link the gap with the payment of the tax debt. However, we absolutely agree that this is a matter that needs to be addressed with strict recovery through regular work and further reduced, as has been the trend in the last period. Another statement bothered me, or I would like to address it, that the state deserves, if it receives an employee, a Christmas or a prize at the end of the year. And the numbers were given, or even by earning a wage. The burden of labour costs consists of income, which is the income of state and municipal budgets and contributions to pension and health allowance. From the minimum wage, income at the annual level is collected for a good EUR 100. The contributions to the pension and health allowance are those which reduce the essential net remuneration even to those who are paid only a minimum wage for their work. And because of the pension system we have, because we don't have individual accounts, but we do have an intergenerational solidarity system, these are the funds that finance today's pension so that those who work will come after him and finance his pension. And with this work, it also provides itself with health care through the health insurance system for which we have agreed. Finally, let me stress once again that we do not reject the debate on what is the appropriate form of decommissioning labour costs which are over-average burdened in Slovenia. However, this issue must also necessarily be linked to the rights arising from these burdens and to the burdens in other areas. We must not allow ourselves to have separate debates, share carrots on one side and leave it to the other to try to find adequate alternative resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the representative of the proposer, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u72	In this mandate, New Slovenia could make itself extremely comfortable in the role of the opposition party and only criticise what you would bring to Parliament. But no, we want to work in a different way, so we have made proposals that we want to solve the most pressing things that we all find problematic together. Months ago, Christmas was exposed in several cases to excessive taxation. We are solving this problem and proposing it in this law. In recent years, it has been said that, compared to other countries in Slovenia, work is above average, especially high contributions to social security. We also propose to solve this problem in a simple way, so that a certain part of the revenue is simply not contributed, and thereby raise the net minimum wage by EUR 50, but at the same time we do not increase the gross minimum wage. Many countries around us know the development cap. They do, but they don't understand it as a rich cap, but they do help the middle layer to help the engineers. With us, it's a subject on which an ideological spear is broken, where it's possible to spot a huge demagogy, but it's okay. We certainly do not weaken health services with proposals, because today health services do not depend on how much you pay for healthcare, but we are all entitled to equal health services and certainly do not destroy the social state. We are making more proposals to people, and I am interested because I have the feeling that the government coalition will reject this proposal today, which will bring about a government coalition. What will happen and how will you solve the problems that we wanted to solve? I'll sit on my seat and watch what you're about to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. All the debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm sorry to report you. Just a heads-up, before you sign up, I would like to warn you to sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. if you also wish to apply to the discussion by the bill's proposer, mag. Matthew Tonin and the government representative, please also log in by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, they will receive the word as the last, first of all the representative of the Government, and thus the representative of the proposer. Each debater has 5 minutes of time available. The first one's got a word, a second, the system's a little off. Mr. Joseph Horvath, if you please, we'll just start with a list from the duty room.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank everyone for the correct debate that you had the real intention of having a very important debate for this country in these 5 hours or a little less. I also thank the Secretary of State, who is an expert in this field, who welcomed this debate. If anyone expects the opposition party, which has 5 members, 2, 3 professional co-workers, maybe some outside friends and experts to write an ideal law, that none of the 90 will say that it is not assigned, that it is defective, then he is wrong. There is no bill that would be absolutely correct without error. He's not here. He's not from any government. So such excuses are bluffs, excuse the expression. We strive to relieve the real economy, the Slovenian economy, we know this from our field visits, has fantastic ideas. Indeed, I strongly recommend that you follow our practice, every month a field visit, at least a visit from 5 companies each month. I strongly recommend that you stay close to the people. Really. And you will see that they have products, that they have new markets, that they cannot expand, that they do not hope to hire, because maybe even some bad worker, because in all the crowds of people are also bad, we are bad, but that I am self-critical, and they cannot forgive him, because the legislation is one that protects earlier rights than duties. These are the facts. And all of these are issues that are relevant and we need to solve them. And if we actually went a little bit further, even with a carrot, an economy, not just with a stick, such as a tax box, which is really such a fiasco, that I am ashamed, because I voted against it, of course, is a fiasco, if we went a little further to the economy, I would, I think, within the time limit, let's say by the end of this term, I hope that it will end regularly, we could do 60,000 new jobs. And now let's figure out how much this would come into the pension register, the health check and so on. Let's just say 60 thousand times 1500 average pay times 12 months times 22.1% and you get it if I haven't mistaken 240 million at the annual level. Here is the answer to the question, to the relevant question raised by the distinguished colleague Marinka Levičar, a very friendly Member. Here are the questions. And, of course, secondly, optimisation, rationalisation of the public sector, the state sector, where the development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is where the digital Slovenia is. Okay, now I expect this cloud to bring something. I am counting on the effects, the financial, that it will bring, which is also the result of, if I understand correctly, a visit by the President of the Government to the world-renowned ICT corporations. Those who have been in the economy sometimes also know that the only constant changes, optimization, optimization, rationalisation, rationalisation of the production process, cost reduction and the same should always be borne by the Slovenian government, and every government. How to make as much country as possible, as rational a country as possible, of course, cost the country as much in terms of the resources we have. We will never have 2 million employees as long as we are a 2-million-dollar nation. But we can have them like I said 60,000 more. And not on a minivan. Look, here's the problem, the problem is that the number of jobs with a minimum wage is increasing and the problem is that we have an increase in the number of pensioners who can't survive with such low pensions and the problem is that our pensions are actually falling. And to do the same as before and expect better results, Einstein's definition of insanity. And we Slovenians are smart, but we're not.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So first of all, I have to say that I have listened to some debates in the National Assembly that have nothing to do with reality in this society. Tilna Christmas, I must say, I have listened when she speaks as a pure bureaucrat who has nothing to do with the real problem and the real situation in our society right now. To talk about numbers, which is the question of how much, if we compare all parameters, if any, is a big question. Mr Tillen Bozič, you said that from our society, so Slovenia has moved so many and so many, such and so many people to move away. True, but you didn't say that they evicted the most highly educated personnel from this society. However, we are being moved by those who are mostly involved in social transfers, and you did not say that. Why do you set up information and deceive the public? I will also now briefly present to you the situation in our society when we talk about what Nova Slovenije has proposed and the law that I also support, which would definitely help reduce poverty in this society. And I will only read to you what the Movement of the New Millennium has written: about unemployment we have already talked about today, we have 110 488, 290 thousand people under the poverty threshold, 150 to 250 thousand registered alcoholics, over 4 thousand homeless, 290 suicides, 160 thousand recipients of the Red Cross, 54,000 recipients of social assistance, 410 thousand people at risk of social exclusion, 206,000 pensioners at the threshold of poverty, 48 thousand recipients of the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not enough alarming data, something needs to be fundamentally changed in this society. Then let the devil take me. This Government, this Government and this coalition have done absolutely nothing in this mandate to improve this situation. Let me know what the law is aimed at reducing the taxation of the real sector or the economy that the law has brought into this National Assembly. Tell me that. And so now you are attacking the opposition, which because the coalition is not capable of proposing important solutions, you are attacking the opposition that is proposing appropriate solutions that would benefit those who could start employment. Those who were recipients of the minimum wage would also earn more than 50 euros net. And for those people who earn a minimum wage, 50 euros a year or a month is of exceptional importance. You don't think that's important and you're making fun of us here in Parliament, a complete coalition. I don't understand Desus, I don't understand. I heard today, I got the information, and it was so publicly known that pensions were rising by 0.7%. My mother, who has 450 euros in pension, gets about 3.20 euros of that kind. Well, that's totally a joke. Complete mockery of people and pensioners that you are not ashamed of those who sit here and propose such solutions and deceive Slovenian people, Slovenian citizens and citizens. Sir, that's not demagogies, that's facts. Tell me that's not true what I was saying. Please don't tell me that because it's true. You don't know what you're taking in Desus, what you're supporting, and what kind of solutions you're taking. Calculate how much 0.7% is on 450 euros and you will see and do not tell me that I am not telling the truth, but I will not allow anyone in this House to do so, because I am telling the truth and exactly what is important is not to stress and say. Do you know what you've done to make entrepreneurship a whim and craftsmanship in our society? Tax registers. What have you done to reduce excise duties so that those who are also fuel-bound and so forth, entrepreneurs and craftsmen can make it easier to survive, what have they done with them? Nothing. You didn't bring them down. You tried to stop the relief for development but thank God that you failed because the opposition opposed it and, of course, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. You also made a permanent VAT raise, a minor [[End of discussion warning sign]] from 8.5 to 9.5 and above from 20 to 22 %. And where did that money go, where that money goes, this 100 million, where that money goes? And what did you do? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u77	You're out of time. Thank you very much, Mr. Marian Pojbich. The word has Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u78	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am not angry, but I fear that earlier very sad, especially from this point of view, because it gives the impression that in fact the Party of the Modern Centre is primarily opposed to these proposals that we have prepared in New Slovenia mainly from some insignificant political prestige. Finally, when at least in part of the opposition we follow your Prime Minister to seek solutions and bring solutions to the parliamentary procedure, those who are looking for solutions would really want these incentives, in particular to seek further solutions for a second reading. In this way, the debate has mainly shown conceptual differences, I hope something else, and I regret that somehow there is no willingness to change or to think more thoroughly about Slovenia becoming a more competitive country. And on the one hand, we are Members of New Slovenia, who want to burden the Slovenian economy to make Slovenia a more competitive country. This law of ours would also mean a great welcome to foreign companies to come to Slovenia and create jobs here. So, who's gonna do better? Slovenian citizens. And then on the other hand, unfortunately, after today's debate, I am afraid that this is a coalition that opposes all of this. You have so many comments on the proposal of New Slovenia, a few hours of discussion but no proposal for solutions. A few months ago, your finance minister, Mr. Maramor, came with a proposal for tax reform, but this proposal, where did he end up? This proposal ended in the media hearing and Minister Maramor was forced to withdraw this proposal because the economists, excuse the expression, literally dispersed, spat on it. And thank God they did. Because it wasn't a good proposal because it meant stagnation. As a result, because of our stagnation, we are witnessing that more successful Slovenian economists, entrepreneurs or young people educated, are moving. And we've heard that a hundred times today, but it's only right to hear it. For it is up to us legislators to stop this trend of evicting successful young people, educated, such and different from such and different professions into neighbouring more competitive countries where they can develop their potentials. Social slippers, as we have called zero contributions from those with the lowest wages, respected colleagues and colleagues who are fighting for a social state only under quotations, while enjoying luxury weekends in Umag, Karigador, Daila and so on. [[…]] See, that would mean more than 50 Euros at the salary of this person who receives the lowest wage. What he would do with that money — he would spend it, he would spend it, he would stay with the country, he would turn. And we don't let that individual do that. Christmas, lower taxes. I don't know if you're really just in the National Assembly, you don't go to your parliamentary offices and to local entrepreneurs in your environment, but entrepreneurs want to pay Christmas, but it's too taxed. She's too taxed, they can't, but they want to reward their employees. Let us give this opportunity, I see no reason why we should not give this opportunity to entrepreneurs to reward our colleagues, business owners, as well as workers to get this money and continue to spend it. On the other hand, as you say, a social cap, which some call a "richton cap." Look, don't make a fool of people, but at the same time enjoy it, I will say again, on weekends in Slovenia Istria, and ask yourself who is rich and who is not rich. If developmental engineers are rich, then God help us and let's end this demagogy. So I want more such discussions in the future and that this proposal from New Slovenia could also be considered in another reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. Once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, that somehow there is no understanding for those who receive good €550 or €315 to raise their minimum wage, and you argue that then the contributions to their pension will be lower, and that you do not know how the pensions will be paid, I think it is extremely inappropriate. Last week, we had a demography session where Mr Vasle from Umarje presented that he received pensions of between EUR 100 and EUR 400 about 30 000 Slovenians and Slovenians and between EUR 400 and EUR 700 200 000 Slovenes and Slovenians, and it will be necessary to consider how the pensions will increase in the future, whether the working hours will increase or the pensions will fall. Of course, this is also the task of the current coalition to decide on this, but - once again I would like to say - I am also on the board - how many years will it take for those with minimum wages to achieve a normal pension. How many years, 60, 70, 100 years? In short, the system isn't real. And these poor people are already poor when they go to work, and they'll be poor when they're retired. And I think you just don't solve problems. Apparently, the government coalition wants minimum wages to stay the way they are. And this is the message of today’s session — all the same, all the poor. Except for some dedicated persons in the public sector who have the opportunity to allocate their own permanent readiness allowances or can even charge travel costs twice. And we come to the state that the raven is hungry - that someone who receives such supplements is more than the height of some minimum wage, and when he has the possibility that he can also double-count travel costs, he does not believe the one who barely survives the month. He does not believe that such an individual who barely survives through the month would be extremely much worth 50 euros a month. Simply because these are some travel costs of EUR 33, in practice, but what is this, and you get it by going somewhere, but whoever works for EUR 550 doesn't have this option. [[…]] He's tied to that job. Thank God he has it, because he is grateful, but I don't understand that you don't understand that this is a measure to help the weak, and also that it will be necessary to look at the reserves for their pensions at the same time, because their salaries are already so low that they don't know what they can expect when they complete the conditions for retirement or full-time retirement. So by saying no, we can't give you anything, because then you won't have any pensions, it's like I said, full of crows don't believe the hungry. And we can't give you, because then I don't know how we're going to give you anything else, they already have nothing, and I think it's extremely inappropriate for all those people who come to us, Members of Parliament, for all those with whom we live in an environment with such low wages, to give them a chance in a way that we've proved through calculations that it's sustainable, irresponsible, inhumane. From my point of view, it's mostly inhumane. I wonder many times because I myself have experienced what they have done wrong in life to receive such a low wage. Why me? I don't know if you've ever wondered why it was me. What I've done wrong in my life, what I'm going to give to my children. 50 euros is the first step towards helping all of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u82	In today’s debate, it may not have been said how this bill was formed and who was fully aware of this law, who we met and who supported it. We started to address these problems and solve them out there in the middle of last year. We've been dealing with things for over six months because we wanted to make them as complete as possible, make them uncomplicated and simple. During all this time, we have met with representatives of both employers and representatives of workers, such as trade unions. There was no organisation on the part of the employers' organisations that would oppose this law. It was supported by all employers' organisations, from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Managers, the Employers' Association, etc. In meetings with the unions, some unions led by Mr Struklje were critical to the development cap, which I can understand, but they all supported Christmas. Therefore, at the conclusion of today's debate, I might say once again that this law is made up of three different parts, and if you allow the parliamentary debate on the tax system in Slovenia to continue, then you will have the opportunity to participate actively in the second reading and to correct the law as you think it is better. So we'll see where your solutions and your suggestions are. It's the easiest thing to say no. I said that I can also understand you that maybe two of these three proposals are not acceptable to you because of ideological, demagogic, public finances, whatever reasons you want, but today's common denominator was what could be repaired and done more interesting for businesses, especially so that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, when paying Christmas, would receive most of this money, not on their own account, but that most of this money would be cut off by the state. So I hope, however, that this law will go through this first sieve today, so that you will not put the debate out today. If you are not completely 100% sure of this law, you can at least abstain and help us those who believe in this law to continue its course. Since I have just as much time, it seems reasonable to comment on another matter, and this is our "retirement" system or pension system. When I walk through Slovenia, a lot of people ask me where my money is, which I spent 40 years paying into my pension system, or who ripped it off at my salary. I can tell anyone, unfortunately, that your money isn't here because we don't have, if you want, an American system where your money would be loaded somewhere, and at the end of your career we could pay our rent or in a piece, but it goes to your money that you pay for "retirements" for the same month of retirement. And that's why the relationship between those who work and those who are retired is so important. And if you want'retirements' to be able to be at some decent level, if you want there to be even enough money for'retirements', then it is clear what is the most effective measure to protect pensioners. It's that we do everything that [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] More people work that more people who are employed actually pay for "retirements", this is the only solution. We have come today with such measures to help new jobs, and we will then see what the result of the vote will be in the evening. But I thank everyone for today's active debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I forgot to give you my word. Today, the technique was a little off-limits, and she gave it to me. [[…]] You're giving up? Okay. Thank you very much. So, I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE SECOND CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON GOVERNMENT IN THE LAST OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, IN THE framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u84	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, the Secretary of State is on his way. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law on forest management owned by the Republic of Slovenia as a working body at its 13th meeting, on 13 January 2016, and at its first meeting, on 13 January 2016. On the proposal for a law, a general debate was held at the 13th ordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 23 November 2015 under Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on 7 December 2015 the Committee held a public presentation of opinions aimed at obtaining an opinion and views of the expert and the general public on the proposed legal solutions. In accordance with Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the local communities. The National Assembly received three opinions: the municipalities of Ljubljana, the municipalities of Lovrenc in Pohorje and the municipalities of Kočevje, which do not oppose the proposal of the law, and some specific proposals were made to each article. The amendments submitted by the United Left Group, the NSI Group, the Christian Democrats, Ambassador Janko Weber, the SMC Group, Desus and SD. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, in an additional explanation of the written opinion, stressed that the amendments of the coalition followed their comments and improved the proposed text and did not remove any concerns. The Committee then took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. The members of the committee also took note of the written comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Union of State Authorities and other institutions. Their representatives also explained at the meeting their comments, which went in the direction of not objecting to the proposal of the law, but their support for the bill is conditional on the law making it clear that the law will stipulate that the state company will deal solely with forestry, that is, with regular supply of wood to the truck and that it does not therefore have its own wood processing. Furthermore, the state-owned company should allow priority to be given to foresters who have production in Slovenia and ensure that the supply of wood is at least as good as it is now after the replacement of the forest management model, i.e. after June 2016. They also highlighted the problem of transferring public servants from the fund to society and pointed out that the proposal for a law does not solve the further employment of 1,500 qualified foresters employed by current concessionaires. They therefore called on the Government to adopt a business plan to preserve these jobs and to ensure that work in the forests continues to be carried out professionally and safely with qualified workers. The discussion was also attended by a representative of the Court of Auditors, who highlighted the financial implications of the law on the state budget in the part of the implementation of the tasks to be financed by the budget fund and the Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, who pointed out that, as proposed by law, the Fund would still be liable to return forests to nature and to pay compensation for the inability to use forests returned in the denationalisation process. In the debate, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups pointed out that the proposal does not fully follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the warnings of the Court of Auditors. It raises many concerns and brings only partial solutions that match only a narrow circle of individuals. The question was also raised as to why we need a new company at all, with the act of the State guarantee for the loans hired, while the current mills still have 50% of the untapped capacity, since the tasks of the new company could be managed by the fund under appropriate reorganisation. In accordance with the comments made in the discussion, the coalition parliamentary groups tabled an amendment whereby the company can rent loans, but with a guarantee to be issued on the basis of the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The reason for this was that the National Assembly would adopt a law on this. The amendment was adopted by the Committee. The broad debate also took place on Article 14. The amendment committee was not adopted by the SMC to the 14th Article of the SMC Group. After the discussion, the Committee adopted most of the amendments of the coalition groups and some of the amendments of the United Left and SMC Group and some of its amendments, as reflected in the report of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general discussion at its 13th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u86	Well-known representatives of the government, the minister, everyone else, colleagues and colleagues. After two months, this law somehow returns to the National Assembly. I must say that two months ago we took some important steps where the debate followed, of course, today it is said that there will be no more debate. I will first limit myself to Article 10 or the amendment to Article 10 of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Here somehow they state that they are going here or they are afraid of unfair competition and somehow this article disturbs them, because somehow wood production is not in their goal and they somehow stated that it would be best that this law stay in the process of getting wood from the forest to the truck road and the end, here should be taken over by merchants and now with this wood do what they want, it would be fair to trade merchants again, to go back to Austria then we did nothing today. Of course, we've done more in here, then I'll say further, but in this article 10, what are they afraid of? See, in saying that the processing will be thought primarily to form centres in this company, a state company, of course, this is a later assumption, especially for those matters, for the processing of wood of strategic importance for the country, for Slovenia. Look, we've had different productions in the past, production of plates, cellulose and so on, this should go back again, this is, of course, the production of plates that would be slightly different. The ones we would need to build wooden buildings that we are now importing from Austria, perhaps from somewhere else. In fact, this does not create new jobs. We are exporting cold or exported to Austria, they were buying and importing semi-manufactured products from Austria, and those simple people, when I spoke in the countryside recently, they said, but we don't understand that wood goes to Austria, they burn those remains from crust to scrape, they burn everything else for free at home, and all the other semi-manufacturings sell very well back to Slovenia and, of course, also semi-manufacturing. It was just trade. This, purely simple people understand and I am glad that in this National Assembly and on committees we have somehow brought this law so far that I can say that in the first place we provide wood to those who will process it and this is certainly the first time in Slovenia, we have over 300 cockroaches. Three hundred sawmills that could now be produced in this state-owned company or cut from these state-owned forests are in fact no problem of cutting or growing into semi-manufactured products. Of course, some will cut wood into sawn wood, add some value, others will make some simple products, others will dry wood, they will make semi-manufactured products, and the fourth will handle demanding products. And clearly, here's what it means to primarily provide wood to those who don't want wood to go abroad. Since we also need to be aware that we need to increase consumption at home, that is to say, we need to increase consumption, to install more wood, either in wooden houses, see, if we are to build in the next period, much investment in tourism, we will have to build completely new buildings based on wood. [[…]] Wood objects, which would be something special in Slovenia, some speciality in tourism, would then certainly know some movement and breakage in the wood industry, because the consumption of wood would increase here. When I mentioned those cellulose semi-products earlier, and then I also thought wood wool, we have to be aware that in the tree we have, the first log is the best, the one is not really a problem to sell, the one that anyone would like to sell, the foreigners are very interesting and they would take it away immediately. The second and third logs can surely be well squeezed and produced in the wood industry. The fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the higher we go to the top, the coolers are of poor quality. And I must say, from practical experience and conversation with others, there was a lot of this wood left in the woods. It's either a bend, or some people are burning it. But the purpose of this is to make it into products and, as I said, poorer quality are those of the fourth, fifth, sixth loaves that are against the top. This is for cellulose, for plates and, of course, for wood wool. And this will by no means be unfair competition for the rest of the wood industry. In the first place we will give wood to the sawmills, in the second we will try to build in these centres in the next period, of course, it is all in bandages, such centres that will be useful and strategic for the wood industry in Slovenia. Thus, I do not support this Article 9 or the amendment to Article 10 for those reasons. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, co-workers of the Ministry of Agriculture! In Novi Slovenija we have re- tabled an amendment to Article 10, otherwise it is somewhat different, but it still follows that the state or state-owned company would not establish its own timber processing plants, saw sawn wood processing plants, because this would, according to the Chamber of Commerce and the Association for the Reprocessing of Wood, sawn wood, in Slovenia, constitute unfair competition with existing sawmills. In view of the fact that a survey has been carried out on how much free capacity these cockroaches have, that is 50 % of the capacity to be free, I think it makes sense that, first of all, it is possible, under the same conditions, that these capacities, which are already installed, which do not require State guarantees or any other incentives, should be filled. Only then can you see the capacity. And we have in our heads what we can do, and we don't have any space, and we don't have any centers, and I don't know what else. And now they would do this to me, but now, whether they will hold out the mandate to the end so that knowledge can be passed on, or not, I think it's all on the May soil. This is where I have to replicate my colleague Škodnik. There is a need to increase consumption at home. Or did we not just 20 minutes ago talk about how consumption will increase and there is no understanding in this area? What will increase consumption at home? With minimum wage? With 515 euros or 313, which is below the minimum wage? Yeah, it's impossible to raise home consumption like that. Now who's going to correct domestic consumption? Is the state going to correct it? We already have this – Pekko Tržič. Will the market tell what will happen in the wood sector, the wood processing industry. I've spoken to quite a few entrepreneurs and they don't mind if the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology allows them some financial means to develop themselves and have a market. And as a state or as a ministry, we should take advantage of this because people working in the wood industry who are actually internationally engaged and have the knowledge that they can easily bring in and, with their own resources, launch another programme in their own production. Our amendment is moving in the direction of first helping existing ones to enable them to develop. Of course, we are in the socio-market economy, and the state has the tasks of providing citizens with security, good service to citizens, including red tape, to reduce this to allow them social security, not least health care. However, in order to process their timber or make their shoes or make their phones, the state does not think that this is a service to the citizens. We are in a socio-market economy where competition prevails. However, if the state enters the area of wood processing, then it becomes unfair competition, illegal state aid and we are in some vicious circle as we know it at Elan's. And it seems to me, to descend into this area without some clear vision, without some clear plan, very irresponsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u90	Dear President, Honourable Minister and representative of the Ministry of the Economy, welcome to all! I will repeat my repeated debate that I am very pleased with every debate in Parliament on economic issues. Well, today is also such a point on the agenda and I will gladly comment on some matters, including the amendment of New Slovenia. If I look even a little bit at the previous point that we have listened to, I think that we in Slovenia are artists about discussing how to share something and arguing about who will get more out of some budget cake, but of course we are staring back at projects and ideas that bring some added value, the nobility of our natural wealth, now whether it is water, wood or something. And I am pleased that today I have the opportunity to speak on this very subject and to publicly support once again the very good project and the law that has been drafted jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Economy. Why am I stressing this in particular? Over the past 20 years, we have also had a certain inefficient organisation that has literally generated the degradation of the forest and forest chains that we had before. There have been over 50,000 employees in this sector, and in the last 20 years this number has fallen to 10,000, and of course, which is more important, direct economic damage, direct, indirect from this title is 8.8 billion. This, of course, means one annual budget and, of course, I do not imagine that anyone in Parliament could oppose a project or a law that establishes a new environment that will allow a previous situation to be put in place, which means that all this damage is gradually reduced over a period of 10 years and that we are increasing the number of employees, creating some added value in our natural wealth. So from this point of view, I want to object in some way and also oppose this amendment, because in fact, there is no concept of a forest-forest chain connection, because it is in some way limiting the development of this forest-forest chain in the design of some centres that would produce wood in products of higher added value. Here again, let me explain that there is no competition for existing plants and I demand that all these companies are normally provided. Of course, we also need to make it clear that the product in the wood industry is not just a board, the product can be some product, as the colleague mentioned, wood wool, and here it is about processing that wood which is actually now the largest item in export. For every year we export about 3 million cubic metres of wood, of which one million, two million, one million are of quality, and there is something that we could use in this forest and forest chain. By all means committed to keeping the formulation in law as it is and by allowing the provision of existing capacities in the law, we should not limit any business initiatives, entrepreneurship and Slovenian innovation. I may cariculate a little to make such a measure as pointless as banning the construction of refineries in the Arab Emirates in the oil field. So we actually have to take this from this point of view or say that Drava power plants, literally where this water runs, generates some electricity to say, and now we can't build something there. So that I also respect some of the opposition's concerns here, but I would like to justify in some way that this amendment is unnecessary, and that the basic wording of the law is essentially towards the establishment of a forest-forest chain and also the provision of all existing capacities as well as opportunities for the development of new installations and new opportunities for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Primož Hainz has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A nice welcome to the government team under the leadership of the minister and, of course, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I have to say on this subject that wood is one of the rare things Slovenia has as a natural resource, and this has been a fundamental starting point in fact that we are talking about in relation to this law and, of course, because we do not have oil because we do not have good water. We have, we have the labor force, and we have the wood, and then it's almost almost gone. And that's why, of course, we have to worry about that. The current arrangement has not been in this room until now because I have not heard it, which would say that so far has been a good arrangement. This arrangement was bad, and the fact was that some even used the term to prey on forests but the profit of this looting went mainly into private pockets, if I could say so to concessionaries and, of course, to those who organized it. So there was no doubt that something had to be done. The Ministry of Agriculture, Economy and Food has drawn up legislation. So the bill we are talking about today, which, of course, touches state forests, i.e. good 18% of the forests of Slovenian forests, i.e. 18% more than 18% of the forest is regulated by other laws. This is only about state property. This proposal, as it was made at the Ministry, has, of course, been coordinated within the coalition and has also come to the Government in a coordinated manner, and the Government has adopted the proposal. But the point was that Desus insisted on certain points. I think Desus really went to a lot of trouble at this point or he got involved like we call it ugly. In fact, something has been taken into account, something not, but we insisted that the Snowman as that working organisation that is already working in this area must be an integral part of this state-owned enterprise. We talked about the seat of this organization and we said this around the seat this will not set out the law we will settle later and after the last moment there was a question of who is responsible for the operation of this law or who it will belong to, this property over the forest or the company as a whole, and of course here was the view that this was so written in the law, the proposal of the law that it would be the responsibility of the Government directly for ownership, for this property. Then there were some misunderstandings that were causing a public, public controversy. First, colleague Janko Weber suggested that the centre, the centre of the company, should go to some location of a barracks in Kočev, and, of course, our colleague had to react to the application, so she accepted the amendment or made an amendment as a colleague of the left-wing amendment to be established in the area of the congregation, so the municipality of Kočevje, as was the decision of the Kočevje Municipal Council. Second, another misunderstanding was with some members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u93	Your Honor, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u95	We are talking today about Article 10 of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. The predecessors came out of it a little bit too, but I thought I'd let you tell me about this amendment, but now I think you're just presenting a report or a position of the delegation. So please, if you define yourself to Article 10 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. No offense.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u96	Yes, dear colleague. Only this practice has been completely overtaken by us in this mandate, and it is, and there are countless debates at second reading, this is what we are now discussing with regard to the Rules of Procedure, in order to put it back into effect, I agree with it, but given that this practice is the same as it is and that I am not the only one, and I also know that I will not be the only one to discuss it this way, but I will tell my own. Because this is not me, this way of managing it, but not only did I accept this practice and today I am simply counting with it and I will be very short if you allow three more sentences. So there was a misunderstanding with the customer of the Modern Centre, who, a week before his admission to the committee, proposed that this company be owned by SDH. This is where we had this misunderstanding. I think we solved it. In the vote, we simply adopted the variant proposed by the Government or the Ministry, which is the Government directly responsible for a simple reason, and I need to be clear here because SDH has, as a rule, sold, but not cured, individual companies. And the danger of SDH working commercially with the forest as a natural commodity is not what we think it should be in the forest wood chain system, so that we can do a lot of damage here. In the end, it's just this sentence. I was told that somehow I was trying to get this company or to keep it within the government's sphere for a simple reason that we were regulating Desus for a job that was supposed to follow. I must make it very clear that I am not a lumberjack and have no ties with the forestry industry, and I also think that Desus has no great desire at this point, but we are only convinced that the Government, which will form the majority of the control council, will have four ministers, four different government departments, that this is a greater guarantee that this company will work well and solidly with the fact that we have added in the last debate of the committee also a representative of the opposition to which the Slovenian Democratic Party has practically agreed to the whole law, if I can freely interpret it, by having representatives of workers on this supervisory committee, which guarantees that this company will work well. Thank you very much and I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 10 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors? I can see one hand right now. I'm asking you to sign in. [[…]] Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u98	All those who follow this debate are respected. We will certainly support this amendment in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, and some other amendments are well proposed. It is a matter of striving for transparency, striving for an open market and striving not to establish monopolies in this area. The aim of this law is to preserve wood as our wealth and the proposed amendment seeks to preserve as many jobs as possible and not to subject ourselves to three issues: that cheap labour is coming to our market, that an informal economy is created and that what we already had is somehow preserved. With regard to the comprehensive comment, however, it is only so much that, with regard to the time available, we estimate that the previous solution has been poor, but this solution, too quickly, does not bring about improvements and poses a lot of corruption risks. I hope that at least a few amendments, if adopted, will limit these corruption risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. In view of the amendment to Article 10 that has been tabled, I would like to point out somehow the difference between what is written in the current text of the second reading law and what changes the amendment. The amendment is intended to suspend the additional activity of the new company concerning the processing of timber. On the one hand, the warning is, of course, extremely weighty and also understandable. In fact, it would be pointless for this company to establish and organise wood processing where this processing already exists and there would be indeed unnecessary duplications of activities, costs, which must certainly not be in the interest of a state undertaking, but certainly not in the interest of a private company to have such interference with the market. However, there are very few such cases in Slovenia where this could occur. Finally, the applicant himself speaks of the fact that even the capacity of existing saws in Slovenia, private property, is untapped. So this potential is available, and if this option is activated to organise processing through this company, it makes sense only where there is no private interest, otherwise I also estimate that this is absolutely unnecessary. At the same time, I would also like to point out that the country already has a state-owned company within which processing is organised. So this system is already functioning and there is so much less need for a real perspective on some form of business. However, I can also say that this company naturally has the same conditions as all other companies and does not give up on how it receives raw material from others who also operate in a manner similar to that of the Fund. However, what I want to point out and what I think is at least the reason why I will not support this amendment is because, according to my information, it will or even is, to sell cellulose in Krskem, so it is a matter of processing wood and unless in Slovenia it is of private interest to go to the purchase of this facility, it seems to me that it is extremely reasonable for the state to react and enter this wood chain in a way that buys away from a foreign investor who, by the way, has become the owner of this cellulose in Kršek that share and preserves the wood sector in Slovenia. In fact, cellulose is one of those activities where you largely allow precisely for less-quality wood to get higher added value and, of course, all this remains then at home and also new jobs and a lot of it can be developed further. So, there are cases in Slovenia where it makes no sense to react in so far as there is no private interest and if we exclude it from the law, then of course this company cannot carry out this engagement. So it is precisely because of such cases that I think it is right that we do not change the text in the law and therefore I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President, Mr Minister, with fellow workers, co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Instead of the introduction, we and Mr Dejan jeedan understand each other extremely well, we are kind of a kinsman, but of course, if we ever have different political views, it doesn't bother us. I'm not saying this for some excuse, to defend our amendment, perhaps to explain that someone would not have misunderstood that it was a personal account, by all means, we were only living on this earth for a few years. Of course, we thought very carefully in New Slovenia, when we wrote the amendment to Article 10 we are not the only ones. You can tell what this Member of Horvat's going to be in seat number 90, in the back seat, he can be "scanned." He can, he can. [[…]] You have all the freedom, we live in a free country, but here is the Court of Auditors, and this has encouraged us to put this additional effort into explaining the following: In so far as the Slovenian National Forest Company will establish new own timber processing plants, saws and the like, in our opinion, this will constitute unfair competition for existing sawmills and other establishments. We believe that the company which has and uses state forests will have different conditions for the purchase of raw materials, as it will also be the owner of wood mass and processor of this same wood mass. And on the basis of a survey carried out by the wood section at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Slovenian sawmills have about 50% of the free capacity. Look, Colleagues and colleagues, we are in the European Union. Perhaps someone has information that the European Union will fall apart on 1 July, perhaps, and then everything will be a little more Balkan as it used to be. However, as far as the European acquis is concerned, this is extremely rigorous when it comes to market freedom when it comes to market legality. Now, I apologize, I must once again show the programme of New Slovenia and the Christian democratic economic policy, the dual social market economy and three values, justice, freedom, freedom of the market, of course, and security. You can laugh, you can laugh, you can laugh anything, you can enjoy some nostalgia and so on and so forth. I do not want to go to this level, but we are deeply concerned about the Court of Auditors' opinion and European legislation. And look at the Court of Auditors as a violation of Article 10. The Court of Auditors has stumbled at Article 10 and others, not only in the case of some articles, but also in the case of others. And if you respect this country, then you must also respect the institutions of this country. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is the institution of this country. You can replace it, probably before the term of office, but again, it's not the topic of Article 10 or the amendment. Therefore, the Court of Auditors objects to Article 10 of the proposal of the Law on the Management of State Forests, which during the activities of the company Slovenski statenovi d.o.o. specify in particular the establishment of forest-forest chains with high added value, in particular. However, it is not clear what the term high added value means. The state-owned company may purchase the ownership shares of existing companies in the forestry sector. New companies will be set up, that's not known. He'll just be processing wood and selling wood products, asking the Court of Auditors. The law also provides that the forest chain company will be able to rent up to EUR 20 million of credit with the State guarantee. You will vote in favour of this guarantee, the guarantee law will come to the National Assembly and you will press the button for, for this guarantee, and for 20 million you will not know where the money will go and here the Court of Auditors will probably be, I don't know so much the Law on the Court of Auditors, but the Court of Auditors will have to set up here on an official basis. But you'll probably fuck the court's opinion and you'll say mah it's a toothless tiger, or really. However, since the concept of the establishment of forest-forest chains is not precisely defined, it is not clear the purpose of stealing for which the State will issue a guarantee. You will vote in favour. We could therefore continue to talk about the bill of guarantee, which the Court of Auditors clearly warns about. The State intends to provide EUR 20 million of cash input to start the Slovenian State Forests, but it follows from the explanation of the proposed law that the company will in fact need EUR 35.3 million to invest in 6 wood storage spaces, purchase of computer equipment and machinery for working in the forest and for operating capital. It is capital, capital is too low to finance all these investments identified in the Court of Auditors, capital is too low. They also wonder whether it is appropriate that the company purchases machinery and equipment for machine cutting, invests money in saws or would not be better if it rented such services under public procurement procedures. It's really a little national that the state buys machines, motor saws. Whether this is the mission of our country of the Republic of Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not really sure, I'm not a constitutional lawyer, but I'm not really sure. I understand the mission of the State as something else. And with this, yes, by this law you are actually brutally encroaching on the market, on the free market. And you will deface a private initiative because these sawmills and other companies are, of course, or primarily private property. Here we have a problem. And this is actually a school case of state aid. This is where the European Commission will answer. Let's get this straight before we get mad again, that the plague of God came from Brussels. And very interesting thinking about this state-owned company is also the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Forests, Mr. Damjan Orazem, who is particularly concerned about the slow process of changing the state forest management system, since the new company will have to be operational when? [[...]] On 1 July 2016, the Council adopted And then this state-owned company, as this gentleman says, needs a trained, very heated athlete who will be a good starter and actually a successful finisher. So we actually have two issues, now I summarize, which are very disturbing to us in Article 10. For the first time, a brutal intervention by the State into market freedom and the second time, of course, will result in illegal state aid if the National Assembly votes in favour of the Guarantee Act, 20 million. We don't know where it's going. This will be illegal state aid, which does not go within the framework of state aid as defined by the European Union, that is, our legal order. And therefore it is perfectly normal that, as the authors of this amendment, of course, I will support this amendment. Think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the Government, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting to all! I'll be very brief, just maybe as an explanation. In particular, in order to minimise the risks of natural wealth, the Government or the Ministry sent the law to the Court of Auditors for a preliminary review. The Court of Auditors responded, showed where the risks were and therefore there were so many amendments to address the risks. Part of this is also essential, only the guarantee, which was not defined in the first version of the law, but also was given in advance, only the signing of the finance minister was needed, returns to the National Assembly and also the definition of why it might potentially be necessary, is written. So I don't really see the risk here anymore. And here's what I'd like to point out. I think we have repeatedly said that in no case for this society, which we will establish, if it is your will, we do not want and will not compete with Slovenian saws and we will not compete with the Slovenian forest and forest chain, which already exists. That was wrong, that's not the point of this law. The point is to get them the quantities. However, there is one security guard inside, and this guard is the one that, if there is a need to find a different solution with some kind of waste from the forest or anything like that, which is not another solution in Slovenia and can be seen, then a different solution can be sought, but as well as a proposal now, the solution is again through the National Assembly. And in my opinion, the risk is significantly reduced, and I suppose that is why, and that is why honourable Members and Members of Parliament are paying attention, we had a very thorough debate on this law in the State Council, because they are representatives of the economy, because they are representatives of employers and everyone else, and they were expressed doubts, and at the end of this debate, the State Council endorsed the law itself from 21 to 7. I think it's a good sign, and it's true, this law is basically what it is, because it was coordination. I think it is better than it was before, but the risks I am warning the Court of Auditors, I would like to say, the Court of Auditors asked us in advance, to remind us of the risks that we are also correctly responding to and, to a large extent, I think that we have correctly responded to the risks that we have been warned to, and we have responded well in this draft law. [[Incomprehensible]] And when I speak, and so have they not learned the professional service of this National Assembly, that it may also now be a good time to ask that, in so far as your will is concerned, the third consideration of this law be realized at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss Article 10 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 10a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u106	Have a nice hello to everyone again. I will return to the forest-forest chain and then to this amendment to this article. I would just say that the law was, of course, the first time it was proposed by the Social Democrats, of course, we all cooperated, of course, I can say the whole coalition and, of course, the government. And of course this proposal, which was, somehow in the first place, this law was somehow shown by the model of Austria to, the harvesting of wood and, of course, the cultivation of forests or the work in the forest and the drive to forest roads, that is to say the shade. But since we then somehow came to the realization that now is an opportunity after 20 years, when, in fact, concessions kind of stop, to do something to break the wood industry in Slovenia, we somehow managed together to get this law somehow finished with additional articles or whatever, I mean that we somehow set up this forest-forest chain. I think we had to come to this because if we didn't get to the forest-forest chain that we somehow established this law, we would have upgraded, of course we wouldn't have done anything, because we know that we would only trade wood back in Austria. But we all know, and all of us, when we're kind of discussing from the outside, we're talking, it has to end, the wood can no longer go across the border, because it didn't just go to Austria, it went to Croatia and Italy. But if it's those people from the countryside, because we have to be aware that there are forests in the countryside, they're not in the big cities. We always say that rural development needs to be supported. And now I ask you, my dears from the opposition, my colleagues, that you say something too, that you are cooperating because many times you have said that we must do something for the countryside, that something must be done for the hill farmer. In this law, however, a hill farmer has an additional opportunity to be included in the January, many times we say that these farmers have lost some things due to the loss of milk quotas. In short, a lot of things are here, but the most important thing of course is that, in the next 10 years, we may be able to gain new jobs. We know we've lost over 30,000 jobs in the last 20 and more years. That's not so small. I believe that by working together in the next 10, 15 years we can obtain at least 20,000 jobs. This is also the goal of these chains. I will return to this amendment, Article 10 proposed by the United Left. They want the first paragraph of this Article deleted. Of course, we don't support that. This Article 1 reads as follows: the total amount of the guarantee obligations from the leased loans shall cover the principal refund of up to EUR 20 million, the corresponding interest, the rent costs and the realisation of the loan. I am pleased that the state has finally realized that there is a need to help break this forest-forest chain or help to help all those who are trying to return the name of the wood industry that used to have. See, everything is worth it in Austria, although the labour force in Austria is almost twice the price of the labour force, and in Slovenia it is worth it. There's nothing worth it with us. Of course, it is often said that the state has to help. With these guarantees now, I'm sure the country has listened somehow, and, of course, I agree with that, and I support that. Why? If these are state forests, why shouldn't they be state-owned? And I don't really understand that when some people say other things. We clearly have private companies. But it would be weirder to have private companies run state forests. That would be weirder. It is far more logical and natural to have a state-owned company with state forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am somewhat dismayed to observe the situation in this Parliament after the new year and sometimes wonder what we have eaten, both on the government's side and here. In order not to be too long, the debate on the amendments is taking place and I would really ask the President to focus this debate a little bit, because otherwise we are making fools of ourselves, under A, and under B it is a very important subject to be dealt with in this way. And under C, we took this seriously in the United Left, and the amendments will be explained by a colleague, and partly by me. But please lead the meeting by focusing. I will say, however, that we have a problem here which, I can say, has been cooked by the SDS – this meeting should be chaired by the Vice-President or the Vice-President of the opposition, and unfortunately we do not have, in particular, the situation that the coalition has around this story. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much, dr. Franz Ducky. The next one has the word mag. Dušan Verbič, I ask that we really stick to these amendments, says we are now in the amendment to the 10th member of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. There's no minister. Minister's team, welcome! Messengers and Members! Even though a procedural proposal has been tabled, I will allow myself to do so, because I think I have the same right as the predecessors, so that I will also be a little off-limits. Porn. The fact is, Article 10a speaks of the guarantee. With the guarantee, the marriage undertakes, unlike creditors, to fulfil the debtor's obligation to do so, if it does not. From this definition, it is undeniable that it is still important who is the operator. And that is precisely why – I must admit that I speak for myself, that there will be no further mistake – the executive branch of power has been extremely poor in its management of natural wealth, forests over the past 23 years. If I limit myself to the last years, I claim that in the exploitation of the forest and forest chain, in particular, all procedures have been carried out for the benefit of all participants, except for the benefit of the State. This case was brought before us by the Court of Auditors, and before me the Member also drew attention to the importance of the Court of Auditors in the Republic of Slovenia. And due to a good understanding of this poor management of state assets over the past 23 years, the Court of Auditors found in 2012 the following: it assessed that the control of the implementation of these works was poor and that the proportion of the illicit cuts represented a good quarter of the cut, although in state forests they carried out and supervised four state institutions, namely, the Fund, the Forestry Institute, the Inspection and the Institute for Nature Protection, since two thirds of the forests owned by the State are in the Natura 2000 area. Furthermore, the auditors of the Court of Auditors also calculated that if the Fund increased to €15 in 2009 from €5.82 to €16 million in 2009 it would create 16 million at the annual level more. Earlier, in 2007, the anti-corruption Commission also estimated that the country had been harmed by around 18 million per year due to concession contracts. So much in support of my thesis, which I also highlighted on the home committee, that for two decades the administration of the executive branch of the authority for the natural wealth of forests was not primarily in the interest of the State. Therefore, I advocate that a new approach should be taken, a real business model, that management would somehow take place at holding, the Slovenian State holding company. However, as the so-called time loop is today in the National Assembly, I am aware of the importance of the content of this law's proposal and of the fact that it has also been pointed out by the profession, which states that any change is better than the current state of government management. However, because I do not wish to act to the detriment of the State, I will not oppose the proposed law. However, I can say that it is precisely because of the importance of the management of the company itself, that the Slovenian State holding company, in the Slovenian State Forest and the direct impact of the policy on the recruitment and management of the company is very reserved. I return to Article 10a, I can only repeat what I have also presented on the home committee in relation to this Article 10a, substantively and meaningfully corresponds to the legal basis for its realization if the management of the company considers that this is necessary. It advocates the content of the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups on this parent committee. The amendment of the United Left, which I reject today between us. If I return to the guarantee, I think it is very important which form of guarantee will be carried out in this case. The profession defines two types of guarantees, a subsidiary and a solidarity guarantee. I believe that it is precisely because of this great emphasis on the operator of the operation of this company that I believe that it is still important for management only and that in this case a subsidiary guarantee should be entered in the statute. This is also my reason, which I often point out, that this kind of management of state property is to be carried out through SDH, because it is more likely that they will consistently implement the principles of corporate governance for the benefit of the owner and this is the country. I am still on bail, and we must also be aware in politics that business operators on the market are doing business with their cash flow in a way that includes borrowed funds. As a rule, this also applies to Slovenian successful companies, so I will not speak a multinational. This, in particular, is due to the fact that many of the concerns expressed by opposition members were raised in the debate on the home working body, that the State guarantee is already a sign that similar problems will arise, as we have seen in the case of TEM 6. I must admit that I strongly object to this thinking because in this case I consider the Slovenian National Forest to be a good passenger for the management of the company, and nowhere does it oblige management to take advantage of it. This depends on the business plan and strategy to achieve the objectives of the Slovenian National Forest. So much for once, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you very much. She has a word, Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not go so far as to explain why concessions seemed to us a really bad solution and how many, in fact, the congregations survived twice as much at that time as the country. However, I would say that in the twenty years since the independence of Slovenia, the number of employees in this sector has decreased from about 40,000 to 11,000, and in Austria, where we have mostly exported our timber, jobs have increased from 53 000 to 57 000 in this sector. We are, however, detained from the very beginning to the proposal of this law. Why? Because six months before the end of the concessions, the government had submitted a law that was only an improved version of what had been dealt with in the National Assembly a year ago and was rejected. The law introduces a state-owned enterprise in the form of d.o.o., which has already been shown in the past to be an ideal form of State abduction. In view of the neoliberal ideology, the failure of the state to intervene in the economy has led to the fact that these state-owned companies receive money from the state budget and the millions of state guarantees and ultimately operate as a state in the country and are totally untouchable. In the same way, the managers, through various advisory contracts, exhaust these companies and, of course, land completely exhausted in foreign hands. And that is exactly what we fear most, certainly not, as Mr Škodnik says, that the state forests should naturally be in the administration of a state-owned enterprise. Nobody denies it, of course we have proposed amendments in the United Left to prevent money from leaking from these companies and to prevent the bad fate we have experienced in many Slovenian companies. Because if we lose the woods, then the devil really took the joke. And I think we all work here in terms of good solutions. And let us return to our 10th Article, which lays down the conditions under which a newly established company can receive state guarantees. In short, the conditions under which any state-owned company can already obtain a state guarantee are known. In short, it must be a special law on the National Assembly. And, first of all, let me remind you that in the original draft law, which was given to public treatment of these special conditions, there has not been at all been any special conditions. They were gone, then they were added extra later during the government hearing. In our view, therefore, this is a totally unacceptable derogation from the system of granting guarantees that are in force. But that is so much more unreasonable if we believe the words of Minister Jew about what profit this company should be operating with. Because, look out, the country will spend 20 million Euros plus Sneznik to set up this company. And then the company will have an exclusive right to manage state forests that exceed 20% of all Slovenian forests. And if this company is really going to be such a business pearl then it doesn't need state guarantees at all, it's going to be easy for banks to get credit even without these guarantees. We already have a number of state-owned companies, including the above-mentioned Snowman, who are very good at business and hire loans for their investments, under normal conditions, without State guarantees. And if this company really needed some State guarantees, it could only get them through a well-established procedure, as is the case with all other companies. In short, what does the coalition, despite the negative opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, still insist on these guarantees? And reducing the criteria and easing the procedures for obtaining guarantees is even more inappropriate if we take into account the experience in building TES6. Here Mr Verbič earlier stated that, of course, this depends on the business plan. Next you'll hear, there's no business plan. And he's not here today. And it can't have anything to do with this business plan that doesn't exist. In short, T6 was a very dedicated guarantee, a newly established state-owned company Slovenski d.o.o. However, guarantees will only be obtained by establishing or complementing forest wood chains. And these are very widely defined in marriage and can fall into this practically anything because it is in any relationship with wood. In short, a representative of the Court of Auditors has also pointed to this at a meeting of the Committee. So you are ignoring the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Court of Auditors, which, of course, our amendment here takes into account. In short, here we are concerned about opening up opportunities for a new purposeless lending of loans with state guarantees. In addition, we need to draw attention once again to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which already mentioned in the public debate that the establishment of this company poses a significant financial risk to the country. Even more worrying is the fact that we know that the entire state investment plan in the newly established company covers only one side of the A4 format. In short, NGOs called for a business plan last year to be practically the same proposal. Last year, even Member Zajc of SMC tied up his support for the law if a business plan is presented. But I can't get past the duality of the state here. Two years ago, the Ministry of Agriculture requested a business plan for the allocation of funds for the modernisation of agricultural holdings for investments exceeding EUR 50,000. That is to say, here in its 20 million-dollar project, it feels calmly that the business plan is not necessary and sufficient to explain briefly in a few paragraphs. The worst part is that they also want a Bianca menu to rent state guarantees. In short, the coalition now convinces us that the National Assembly will have a subsequent option to decide on the guarantee, as this will be decided, but this is not the same. The decision on consent shall be adopted by one-phase procedure. So, no public debate. In addition, the law, unlike the decision, must contain a detailed explanation of the reasons for the adoption of the law. And what is very important about guarantees is the assessment of the financial risks to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. You see, that's not necessary at the conclusion. Therefore, in the United Left, we are very well-intentioned to believe that it is imperative to delete Article 10a, which lays down specific conditions for obtaining guarantees. Of course, this does not mean that the Slovenian State Forests will not be able to rent credits, even with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, but all these guarantees must be subject to standards that apply to all other state-owned enterprises and to all other entities. There is no way that we can agree that even before one company is established, we receive financial leave for unknown reasons in advance. And here, you know, it can happen to us that we put ourselves behind our necks and get caught in our own trap. Therefore, please reconsider to delete this Article 10.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u114	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Regardless of the fact that I had received a warning almost earlier, I would have dared to have a little broader debate on this subject. Because I think that Parliament, as such, is spending too little time on economic issues, but I will still follow your instructions, but a few words on that. First of all, on the subject of the guarantee and of this amendment, which, contrary to the position of colleague Tomic, I think that this amendment is certainly acceptable and that the guarantee must remain in this law. Why? In particular, because of my experience in the industry and industry, where 8.8 billion damage has occurred over the last 20 years and literally the Ministry and all state institutions have not recognized this great opportunity for Slovenia, the exploitation of this natural resource, in industry such as the timber industry. I was particularly surprised, however, by the fact that the Ministry of Finance made this proposal and welcomed it by both ministers, but why not, if even Minister Marble decides to recognize his portfolio - in all our documents of smart specialization, the wood strategy is beautiful, the strategy for the development of the wood industry – that however, this industry must be supported in some way. Of course, what does this EUR 20 million mean to EUR 8.8 billion, that's a little bit practical. In particular, I believe that the position of the Ministry of Finance was later made clear on the Committee that all the rules for drawing this guarantee are in accordance with the applicable legislation and regulations of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, for these reasons, the concern of the opposition, specifically the United Left and also New Slovenia, is completely overemphasized. Of course, I would also expect a number of left-wing efforts for new jobs to take advantage of the opportunities of natural resources to actually think about it and withdraw this amendment. In short, I think it's contrary to their basic orientation. It should be stressed that this modest guarantee will enable the development of the forest and forest chain in a fully transparent manner. Thus, there is no fear or danger that these funds will be used in a transparent manner. In particular, I would like to point out that it is an erroneous belief that the National Assembly or the Committee on Agriculture should consider the business plan and put itself in charge of this company. In particular, this is the task of the members of the Supervisory Board, who, with their responsibility and personal property, guarantee the approval of the basic plan prepared by the Administration. That's how I think we're mixing politics and corporate governance here. The law merely clarifies the guidelines, this is a constitution, some new business opportunities for the establishment of a forest and forest chain, and the management authorities in this new society are responsible and also expertly qualified to prepare this business plan. Nevertheless, I would explain that, nevertheless, a business model for the Government, which it also received, is this document here, and it also assessed that it is a good enough business model for the later preparation of a business plan to be prepared by the management of the new company and approved by the Supervisory Board. So, in any way, I support this article, which defines the guarantee for this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I find that there are still wishes after the debate, so I ask for applications. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the minister with the team! I'd like to say something about this law that's taken us so long. In fact, I would like to say that we are dealing only with the good 18% of the forests we have in Slovenia, based on what has been bad for the last 20 years with these forests or the country, we have not received enough harvest from these forests, but we still have 80% of the private-owned forests, some of which are owned by the municipalities. In the state forests, although the country has received little from this, it has cut almost as much as it has grown up, it is said that management was good from this point of view. In private forests or others, especially in private forests, only half or less of what has grown. That's 70% of all forests. If the country were economically viable, it would also make sure that these forests were cut down so much or so much better to manage, regardless of who owns it, who gains a certain income from these forests, but that was not the case. As one day it was prevented from organising a forestry service with these private forests and thus private owners, where ownership is quite fragmented, as we have about 460 thousand forest owners, the average area of good two hectares per owner and, of course, the management with this has remained. This was harmful to the state or to its citizens, but this was good for someone, because cutting wood from these private forests would be a competition for wood cut from state forests. Of course, after this flow of ice exports to neighbouring countries had been well-run and well-run, and had also brought enough to concessionaires, it remained so, but the damage to private forests was still being done. We have also seen this in the case of agglomerations, when there has been some sort of recovery in the state forests, but not in private forests. As a result, there has been an abnormal replication of the underlings, and the consequences will only be felt in the coming years. It is said that at the state level, for forest management, the Slovenian Institute of Forests, which has about 700 employees, of which about 400 foresters on the ground and 300 in the offices, it is said that this management was not good, the professional work was not good, which probably the country should detect that the forests are not well managed and properly organised, as the agri-agricultural chamber is also financed by the state to the greatest extent, only a few get funding from the farmers' membership. And now we are in a situation where concession contracts are ending. The Forestry Act is expected to recommence contracts for a period of ten years, but the country or the Government has come by law to establish a new company for the management of state forests, in my opinion this is not necessary, as it has now managed an agricultural land fund and could continue to do so with appropriate adaptation. This work is now being taken up by the Fund and a new state-owned company is being established. In addition, the Agricultural Land Fund has other tasks from the past, with some 36 million commitments to, in particular, denationalisation beneficiaries, which it will have to settle somehow or not, the State, taxpayers, will have to cut down its pockets and settle those debts again. This law is therefore also opposed by the Fund for Agricultural Lands, which is under the authority of the Government, of course. And that is why I am against this law because it does not solve another thing, what has already been mentioned today – if we had good forest management, if we had an organised forestry service at the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, and this chamber was doing well with its advisory work, for the benefit of all farmers, especially those of the mountain farmers who live and have nearby, or the country has its own forest to survive these farmers, it would have to do some kind of advisory work, and it would have shown that this farmer could only survive with forests, with his own and if not able to survive, the country could grant him concessions for a few more forests to carry out, perhaps even some complementary activities, and thus create a new added value that would help him survive if it were more able to develop into an entrepreneur. We have some of these cases. However, since you are obviously not concerned by the state, he does not want to see us now going into the establishment of a company that will, on average, give out concessions or put on the market a cut and a set-up where foreigners who will do this for the country of our farmers, who have significantly reduced their subsidies in this new agricultural policy, even for half, will not survive. And now I ask myself, is it in the country, or do we care to have the villagers survive, that these farmers survive, that they endure and maintain this cultural landscape? I guess not. To see only profit from cut trees and from the logs they'll take across the border because I can't see the other. However, speaking about how this company will develop the wood-processing chain, I do not see anywhere in this law. We have at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology established a Directorate for Forestry where, if you read their tasks, it writes exactly that and that is in another ministry. Now, in this ministry, we are making a loan guarantee that this ministry will perform some processing functions or set up a timber processing company, when we all know that we have about 20% of our stock capacity and 50% of our stock capacity. And I wonder what this $20 million will be for if we have enough capacity for these two operations to open up? Is it really wood wool as an insulation material or is this state-owned company going to make children's toys out of wood or I don't know, or are they selling wooden eggs, and I don't know what else, or is this unfair competition as has already been said or denied state aid today? I, in this law or in this material that has been presented to us Members, cannot understand that it is something you can see. It's about something in advance. It'll work. I think we have enough Members. And if we're already going into the forest-forest chain or wood production, why wouldn't that be the ministry where the directorate and the tasks are written exactly why? I think that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Food, that their function to the forest road and forest management would be the responsibility of someone else, and that if the state already has to have a hand on it and therefore I think that these 20 million guarantees are not necessary for this 20 million to be in law, a guarantee can be given by law that Members will confirm when the company is set up and if it has a programme or will show what to do and will speed up this forest and forest chain where entrepreneurs cannot on the market if that is the solution. Whether we're going to set up a cellulose factory or not, I don't know what all of the IV panels or something else that's going to add value. Then, in a case like this, no. I am sure that the Agricultural Land Fund could carry out this task further, with 100 employees. For these mountain farmers, I do not know what will happen to these farmers if the agricultural land fund has agricultural land and forests at the same time. Maybe even one plot that goes up. We have an example of one plot of 270 hectares, but what if I don't know half the grass on this plot, half the forest. One will operate an agricultural land fund and the other will be operated by a state-owned company with the management of state forests. However, the profession paid by the State is excluded, which is an agricultural advisory service organised at the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber but this, this G, forestry, is only three foresters behind this name, which I wonder what they are doing if they have no tasks that would be written in the part of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber because the report, if you are not looking at it, is excluded. Then why is that name, because it's better because they have it in other countries? And all of this shows that the state has misruled and that no real policy has been set up. We have a metal law, the Forest Act, where it is stipulated that concessions will expire then and then and continue to be signed or re-signed for a concession for 10 years. And now the government is flying in with this law to make some Solomonic solution and how new things are going to be nice and right. Far from it. Recomplicated to a certain creation that will be even more difficult to solve, because once it had to be solved. If the Swiss say that Switzerland is not such a rich country that harm is done in their forests and ensure that the good lords of Slovenia is clearly so rich a country that in 70% of all the forests we have cut only half the wood that grows. That's a fact, and no one sees it. And when this state company starts to work, they're going to call concessions for all the forests, including those hills, those mountain forests. On the other hand, after 1 year, we will find that these farmers leave all activities so that they cannot survive, move to cities, blocks or rely on social support to live off it if they cannot survive. Nobody's looking at the whole thing, and that's why I'm against such a law, because no one's ever convinced me that this is the way to save the forest management. I am talking about all the forests that we have now more in Slovenia, once more than we had a hundred years ago we did not lose 150,000 hectares of agricultural land to produce food, what kind of self-sustainment do we have? Did anyone here wonder what 460,000 owners of private forests were in those cities? No one, nobody cares. We're going to raise the cadastral income and the state will get something, and if we don't get enough property tax, because it was also for the forests, and a little lift, these private owners will simply say, because I have only a loss of liability with this forest, and none of it is taken by anyone? Maybe some stranger will show up and give something for it? We'll take them out of the woods, and we'll sell the forests next to the vineyards along the northern border already picked up by foreigners. And if there's a seat at the Austrian border, it'll be so much easier. So, too bad words, too bad we're getting so tired, Mr Verbic has described nicely what management will be like so far, and I fully agree with this conclusion. We've heard a lot of them, but what we have now on the table is not a solution. He won't. It would be necessary to fix the law first, the Law on Forests, where all these mountain farms would be placed under the roof, and to find a solution for those at least 460,000 owners of private forests, because they are ours, in most cases of ours, also from Canada, and Australia, I don't know where else. I'm sure that the churches with their 6% of forests get a year more than the country with 18. And then who is the good master? And if 460,000 owners were as good a master as a church or a congregation, how many added regularity would they create, what would be the income? On the 5, I don't know 6 million cubic feet of cut wood a year, which could be cut. Here let us ask ourselves what kind of masters we are over the forests, which are our only natural wealth. And now we're exporting a lot. Members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Voivodship are working on how they will no longer export maize because they are the second largest exporter in Europe and have said, for example, that if you export corn it is the same as if you exported pipes. In case we're not supposed to work, that's all we do. They laughed at us and invited experts from the Netherlands to try to make more of this corn than to load it on wagons and sell it, but we cannot learn anything from the Austrians, neighbours who are the best owners of wood processing and wood management, the first in Europe and probably also in the Council. Only Caravans limit it, and on the other hand Karavank anarchy and wood falls in the woods. Let us ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, if we are here in this House to deal with such a law that will bring nothing. Whether we will ask ourselves once again whether we will start on the basis of solving matters, so that all of us in Slovenia will have more and that we will not take credit so that we can have a minimum or EUR 400 pension for 40 years of hard work if we do not create ourselves, others will not give us that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u117	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you for saying so, President. Only about the guarantee; I would just like to mention it; not every guarantee is given to abuse it. It is true that many times, as far as the TES 6 guarantee is concerned, this is the problem of those who gave their consent in this National Assembly. Article 10a, in view of the fact that the honourable Member of Tomić, who has commented in some way on these guarantees, the guarantee contracts and the like. If we look at Article 10a, second paragraph, from the point, the following indents 1 to 10 are very detailed and represent all the ingredients that are necessary for the issue of the guarantee contract and what is considered, at least by the proposer of this Article, by the United Left is superfluous, because in 11. the point means that the guarantee can only be issued when the consent of this National Assembly is given. It is said that the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, simply cannot enter into any legal relationship with a confidant without the consent of this National Assembly. That is why I believe that any doubt or dilemma about what will happen about this guarantee is superfluous, for this assembly will give its consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u119	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. The amendment to Article 10a of the Group of Members of the United Left is not necessary because we have already resolved this issue on the Committee on Agriculture, when we also discussed the issue of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this debate was opened both because of the Court of Auditors' position and because of the position of the Legislative and Legal Service and, of course, we came up with solutions in which we, in fact, insisted Members. In particular, the Ministry of Finance was in the position that it would be possible to provide guarantees even without giving consent to the National Assembly. We objected to this and therefore, in the present 10a article, the United Left of which proposes to delete the guarantee recorded, is issued on the basis of the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the act adopted by the National Assembly when it gives consent is the law. Therefore, on the basis of the law to be tabled, it will be possible to give an agreement on the guarantee for a specific matter which will also be dealt with in that law. It is true, however, that we have also significantly improved the conditions under which the guarantee can be granted, so that we have followed all the warnings and therefore I am talking about that the current amendment or deletion is not really necessary. Unless, of course, someone explicitly opposes the guarantee, even if it is given to the National Assembly on the basis of an adopted law granting consent. However, this safeguard, which the National Assembly has in this case is very important and has been achieved on the Committee, and I think it is right to maintain such a solution as well, because we maintain control over how resources will be used, for which purposes, and above all, I think that we can talk more about what has been said by colleagues at previous points, what is desired and can be achieved through prudent management of resources that will also be available for the construction of wood centres and similar solutions that are needed to re-energize the wood processing chain, which is largely destroyed in Slovenia and presents us with this instant certainly one of the biggest challenges to stimulate economic growth through the wood chain, how to provide additional jobs and how not to ultimately create added value with our natural wealth, which we have in the form of wood. So, I will not support this amendment because, in my view, we have adequately resolved the issue of guarantees by giving the National Assembly an agreement on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u121	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. Today we are talking about an important law. There was a law that was already a lot of talk in 2015, a lot of spilled ink. To begin with, at the end of last year, the delegation of the Austrian Parliament was present in our National Assembly, and representatives of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food were also present. In this discussion we also highlighted the issue of forests in the neighbouring country, that is in Austria. We also mentioned our problems in this area. Above all, we were interested in how they view their forests, how they look at wood, and above all what with this wood that grows in neighbouring Austria they also do. After several questions and a longer discussion, the fact that this does not work for us, especially for two reasons, because there is no real economic logic because we are talking about the law on forests is often not a healthy country of mind. I must admit that, as a Member and a member of the Committee on Agriculture at the beginning of this law, I was looking forward to it because it is absolutely necessary. Because we always find these things limping on multiple segments. In order to be more easily understood, it is very difficult to understand that someone who cuts in the state forest pays 14 euros, and this same contractor who cuts off a private company or another company that owns a forest has to pay once more for this. That's when our economic logic doesn't work. When I first mentioned Austria. I am afraid that across the border, those who have been working in this area for a long time in the neighbouring country are strategically placing saws for cutting not only Austrian logs, but also Slovenian. I speak because this marriage is so much more important. We know that many of the shades went one way or another across the border to foreign sawmills, and also this quality wood, which is certain, I now speak as a non-expert, significantly more of a quality than in a neighbouring country, went for a very low price, with large quantities. As we speak of this law for a year now, we have found that we have been running out of time to be 1. The 7th or the last of the month of June expired concessions and we are in a hurry. As a Member, I have been disturbed by the fact that we must have gone too politically at the very beginning. To avoid saying this, evidence was given by the last Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which was held in the day and a half, or in two days, that we were overly politically engaged in this law. The fact is, in Slovenia, there have been a lot of professions that can work well in this area, which have known the problem of wood and forest in the Republic of Slovenia for many years. And they also know the answers in this area for the future of the Slovenian forest, but it certainly was not close enough or trusted in this law. Of course, when the law smells politically, according to politics, it is often not good. I have to mention, I was positively surprised by everything through, the two Members, the largest coalition parties who have really done this with the heart, the knowledge of the past and the soul in particular in this law all through and wherever we met, within Parliament or outside, spoke positively about this law, as well as positively in favour of the Slovenian forest, Slovenian wood, and in particular Slovenian products, which could be sold both in the Republic of Slovenia and beyond our borders. Of course, this last committee has shown that these desires, and this heart, so that this marriage can be very good, have somehow waned. I would not be looking for a reason today, but, above all, as a Member, I have very serious concerns when we put money into the state law. Many institutions have been able to say this year that they do not need any money to have knowledge, expertise, machines, and many Slovenian forests. Of course, we must not only take into account state-owned forests, we must also take into account private-owned forests. These are all forests in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why every day I get a bigger question about why we give money and, above all, about the guarantee. This morning we talked about people in the Republic of Slovenia living with a minimum person, breaking through day after day, not to say from month to month, week after week, there was no listening, not even with a small handful. Of course, when we talk about millions to put them in a state-owned company, we do not have a written strategy, but this is much easier for Members and Members. I will, of course, oppose this law, which does not go to the good of Slovenian forest, does not go to the good of Slovenian wood, nor to the good of Slovenian wood product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u123	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President, for the floor. Article 10a, deletion of article referring to the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. I myself have a problem with guarantees, and therefore I am also one of those who opposed or opposed all the guarantees for this unfortunate TES-6 and probably another law. Why? Because it seems to me that we are creating some unfair competition, if, of course, we are still living in some market capitalism or some state aid. Personally, I also have a problem because we are giving or setting up a company where instead of burdening the country with services, responsibilities, we are lifting it up. And I have to say, in these days, weeks and months, when I feel that in all areas, ministers are just thinking about how they're going to set up a state-owned enterprise in some area, give a Bianca a menu, in this case 20 million, and in this case, in five years, the public should be busy in what next term of office of the National Assembly in five years' time and ask where we're going, who's to blame, who was the boss of those companies and where that money went. And I personally think that this marriage will have a similar story. We don't even know where this company is going to be, but the last time I have to say that as an opposition MEP, I have to say that I enjoy the debate on the committee when members of the coalition rather than being excused from defending themselves on the market behaved to me who would offer what and to whom to sit with him. And I must say that since I'm used to parliamentary democracy and I'm also married, it's the easiest thing if two people change home and then tell you where they're going to sea. That's because you fought publicly where you put the company's seat and more. They didn't know how to deal, but today you're expecting a Bianca menu from the National Assembly. And it says the guarantee is issued on the basis of the consent of the National Assembly but when I listened to the debate between the SD and the SMC on this law, I am convinced that at least in this mandate no guarantee will be issued because you will not be able to agree on who to give the guarantee. Even more than before, Mrs. Tomić said why Bianca's bail. Article 35 states that the Government shall adopt acts establishing the Act within 30 days from the entry into force of this Act and appoint management, the Government shall appoint the perpetrator of the duties until the appointment of the Management Board, 30 days. I am interested, however, in the distinguished representatives of the Ministry, in all such acts and in others already being prepared. In the next 30 days, will you make audacious in this area, and I personally expect that the Government will also tell you who will be the perpetrator of the duty to whom we will give 20 million bulwarks of state resources. Whether it will be John, or France, or Loize, or whether it is a member of the SMC, or whether it is a member of the SD, or perhaps you will find even a foreign expert who will be driven out after 3 months by you to say aha foreigners are guilty of everything that is going on in Slovenian State guarantees. I am even sure that before this phrase, wood is our natural, wood is our national wealth, which we listen to every time in this debate. And before this marriage comes to life, this phrase will be translated into German, because the Slovenian wood will also be brought into German speaking. Not only countries, but especially companies that know how to deal with it. In short, this, this 11, 11th indent of the guarantee is issued on the basis of the National Assembly, the consent of the National Assembly does not convince me that I would say yes, but the matter is resolved because the National Assembly will already be able to resolve this matter. Moreover, if I read the Court of Auditors’ opinion and the Legal and Legislative Service’s opinion on this guarantee, it is essentially what the proponents have proposed, i.e. the United Left has proposed in this amendment. Something national, but once again we do something a little bit of our own, because we're just experts on how to make something normal out of something abnormal. And the state guarantee over the thumb is for someone for a better time. I am even more afraid because obviously this law first in 2016 will be followed by laws from other areas, smoke smoking will probably be a state service, in the field of health we will get something, in the field of the environment we can doctorate from state companies and so on and we will say yes, see, since we have already given one company a guarantee and let us change another law so that we can do something new and there we will give the guarantee to no one. What I'm talking about today is a simple solution, or here the United Left will disagree with me – the sale of the state. But not selling out state-owned foreigners that we hate so much in Slovenia, no, selling out to good owners. And the country is almost everywhere the worst owner. Today, we are setting up a new state-owned company, as I said before, that in five years we will be fighting again, who failed and which government was the one that adopted this law, and which Members were the Members who adopted it. However, officials preparing such laws are likely to have been at the Ministry for a long time and then the Minister comes and must, in cooperation with or non-cooperation with coalition parties, take such a decision or other decision. Moreover, if the state were not to give the best in the use of the state forest, it had a very simple solution before it — lifting concessions, driving out bad concessionaires and getting someone who expressed a desire to pay even more just to come to work. We have a huge saw, we have a lot of people who get to know each other in this area, but no, we're going to set up a state-owned company, even though we have an agricultural land fund that I'm critical of, and I don't think that does my job, we have a forest office, we have GGs. But no, we're setting up a company, and even a coalition MP says, yes, the address is supposed to be there on some barracks. The MP said everything — even a member of the government’s coalition’s attitude to this law. Then we will wonder who is to blame for failing to live in practice. And even more, according to the practice of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, they can expect a parliamentary commission of inquiry after three mandates, where we will ask ourselves where these 20 million out of the woods went, and if we say that this amount is not very interesting for the Slovenian public, we will investigate some other state-owned company, which we have also thrown a million, two, ten, one hundred, because people do not even feel that way when we talk about millions easily. Every average citizen probably knows much better what it means to be 50 or 500 euros, because he feels when he gets a payment sheet or something else in his hands, but not where we act non-chalantly, and 20 million of the state's 20 million more after, yeah, because the National Assembly will be awake and everything will be super nice. Interestingly, there was a story on the committee between one and the other parts of the coalition, where this state-owned company was supposed to go. But when you ask Members of the Modern Centre Party, if you are not members of the European Alda Group, the liberals, because a priori should oppose this law – no, the law suits us better, but it would suit us even better if you went under our hands, where Miro Cerar says, "Ah, SDH does not interest me, I have nothing to do with this, ah, of course, but check the act of what assembly and who has which man and what his duties are." You'd like that very much, wouldn't you? And that's what Alde says, like a liberal "wannabe" party or at least a Slovenian part of this party. So, really, if we're going to a market, let's put as few countries as we can on this market as possible and not what we're doing with this law, we're even doing a blank so that maybe even some European institution will find illegal state aid to some state-owned enterprise. Although we may be able to agree, as the minister says, that someone else will not be deprived of anything, but someone will, unfortunately, have some of this, and this is the country. And given that there is a perfectly flawed intention of marriage, it is as good an amendment as the United Left suggests it will not make a single living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u125	Does anyone else wish to discuss Article 10a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President. In particular, I must speak to you because the honourable Member, Mr Lisec, who has discussed it, I think he has used the word Bianca Menika many times, in connection with article 10.a. I have to take this. I don't know if the honourable Member knows what the exchange is and how we compare it to Article 10a. But in spite of everything, I'm going to allow myself to say that the exchange rate is an empty blank, just with the publisher's signature. And there is no comparison with Article 10a when I have already been involved in a debate where in the ten indents, very clearly defined what is necessary for the so-called Guarantee Treaty and which is an even more important 11th paragraph, which makes it very clear that the consent of this National Assembly is necessary for the validity of such a guarantee. And there's no way we can talk about the exchange rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u127	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD groups and the two amendments of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you. The amendment tabled by the Coalition to Article 15 in fact governs the decision taken on the Committee. There was a decision to include the opposition in the work of the Supervisory Board and, of course, it was necessary to change the number composition of the Supervisory Council, and in the amendment we are talking about the 8-member composition of the Supervisory Board. In such a way that the Supervisory Board is composed of five members of the proposers, one proposed by the Minister responsible for Forestry, one Minister responsible for the Economy, then a Minister responsible for Finance and a Minister responsible for Nature Conservation and each opposition in the National Assembly. At the same time, of course, there are three representatives of workers in the Supervisory Council, which are named in accordance with the law governing the participation of workers in the management of companies. Therefore, the Supervisory Board has extended itself to the Committee's decision, including to the opposition and not least to the answer, to the fact that this law really makes it clear that it is an awareness that we are managing natural wealth and that it is not a one-party project, that it is not a single minister's project, but that it is actually involved in the operation of this company all the departments involved, I will say, in the operation and management of natural wealth, such as forests and, of course, environmental protection and not least, in the interests of economic interest also the economy. All of this, of course, will have the opportunity to monitor and design solutions, including the opposition with the cooperation of employees. I think that this solution is truly an extremely important and high added value, which has also occurred in cooperation with the opposition on the Committee, and therefore, in my view, the law is also of a much higher quality than it was at the very moment of investing in the procedure. At the same time, this amendment regulates the functioning of the advisory body, namely the Council of Experts. The Expert Council shall be the advisory body of the management of the company, which shall consist of 10 members. Two representatives of local communities, then civil society organisations in the field of environmental protection and 6 representatives of expert organisations and associations in the field of forestry and forestry. In fact, the Council of Experts also further integrates the general public into the way the company operates, and both the local communities, as well as the nature-protection organisations and again the economic and public interest, can form their views and propose them to management for consideration. Of course, the procedure is such that management must be made aware of these views, be defined in these positions, and then depending on the extent to which these measures will also be implemented in practice. But it is right to open up a space for discussion, within the company in cooperation with management and here, we also avoid, most likely, the controversy that we are causing in Slovenia to a large extent through the media and that dialogue does not occur, in the very place where it is necessary. This also regulates the possibility of civil society participating in the operation of this company, not through the media, but directly as a business authority. This is, I think, very good, especially in this sense, because we really want to make one breakthrough in forest management, nature conservation and, finally, in the area of economic use of timber that we have at our disposal. So, the amendment, in my opinion tabled by the coalition, significantly improves the content of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u129	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u130	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister with the team, as well as his colleagues and colleagues. Given the length of the contents of this amendment, one could quickly say that in a very short period of time you would also say your opinion of this amendment. But anyway, for the introduction itself, just for a little while. I think that this marriage was one of the toughest nuts we've had in the last period, even within the coalition, and also on the working bodies of the mother. And it is also so important that the care of state forests and the management of state forests is so important that we have dealt with this issue for so long. There were different conclusions, different views, different opinions and, of course, these opinions and views needed to be harmonised. I hope we've brought them together successfully, even though there have been a few smokes and some fires. The original idea and the original idea of how many members the Supervisory Committee was supposed to have was different from the one now proposed. However, I can honestly say that I am pleased that the opposition is also involved within the supervisory authority of this new company. So that it doesn't look like my mutilation and that I want to please someone, but I don't. In any event, this is a useful matter and, of course, workers' representatives must also participate in this body. The professional council itself, which is made up of various institutions, can be a useful body that helps in some way to run a business. You know, sometimes you wonder if it's wise to set up a state-owned company. Listen, always, I always appreciate that this is better than having a situation like this for 20 years. And the worst option would be to extend concessions. It is true, however, that these concessionaires who have employees, especially Slovenian workers, are allowed to participate in this story in such a and different way, of course, in accordance with the rules. Personally, as well as our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal of the amendment prepared by the coalition, a genuine coalition party. I also strongly agree with what the United Left has proposed, but I still think that the proposal is a little too extensive. Given that there will be only eight members of the Supervisory Board, this means that the Statute will then have to regulate which vote is preferred in an undecided vote. It will probably be the vote of the President of the Supervisory Board in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u131	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, President. In the United Left, we do not agree with the coalition's amendments. The content of the professional council seems fine to us, but we cannot agree in any way that the number of employees in the company is at a legal minimum. By law, it can be from one third to one half. Why this perfect minimum? We have already said on the committee, and once again I will say that the number of employees' representatives in the company is placed on this legal minimum is unacceptable to us. Especially because such a proposal comes from a ministry led by the President of the Party of Social Democrats, which is committed to promoting social entrepreneurship, compulsory participation of employees in profits and similar things. This is at the declaration level. Otherwise, I must admit that in the introduction to the Committee's consideration of the law, the Minister said that he had no problem if our proposal was adopted. However, we were over-voted. In fact, only the United Left voted to increase the number of employees’ representatives to a legal maximum, which is one half of the members. So, I--io counter tutti, again. From SDS and New Slovenia, which, by nature, is extremely receptive to everything that smells like any working arrangement, we did not expect that. However, we did not expect the rejection of the Social Democrats, Desus and SMC, much more so because in the coalition contract you also included strengthening economic democracy as one of the elements of the exit from the economic crisis. Then why is the extent of the participation of workers in the supervisory board of the state-owned enterprise we are establishing reduced to a minimum and why couldn't you support our amendment on the committee? Furthermore, you have now tabled an amendment to Article 15, and again here you have missed the opportunity for this economic democracy that you are talking about and writing about in your documents. Of course, we expect private companies not to give the number of employees a legal maximum, but therefore we must urgently, at least in state-owned enterprises, strive to increase the participation of workers in the management of these companies. The greater participation of workers is also known elsewhere in Europe, for example in Germany in the so-called Montana industry there are greater codecision rights than elsewhere. In France, there is a super-standard of co-decision, including cooperation in business bodies, right in state-owned enterprises. Workers probably care more about how their company works than anyone else, and their services and the survival of their families depend on it. Of course, someone would have thought, what about someone who saw trees know about corporate governance, but these are actually very humiliating prejudices. Also, someone who wants trees, believe me, lives on it and wants the company to live as good as possible and live as long as possible. In addition, workers always have the opportunity to appoint someone else, an outsider to represent their interests, to appoint any trade unions or other experts to whom the workers trust. And in addition, it seems to us that this will somehow be a very large business, because it will have to take over the work that is being done by quite a lot of private companies now, so we think that workers would not have any difficulty in choosing five representatives to trust them and who could peacefully represent their interests. We therefore call on you not to vote in favour of the amendment of the coalition, but of the amendment of the United Left, at least Article 15. The provisions concerning the Council of Experts can, of course, be further supplemented in the third reading. However, if the amendment of the coalition is adopted, as usual when you are always voting us, then I now announce that we will also table an amendment on the promotion of workers' representatives in the supervisory council of society in the third reading, and we count on the coalition to be able to support our amendment at least then, as it does implement your coalition agreement and your pre-election promises on strengthening economic democracy. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u133	Procedurally, Mr. Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u134	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would ask my colleague from the United Left not to deceive in any way the Slovenian Democratic Party usually votes when the issue of workers and workers' rights is at stake. I would just like to remind you of one point that, during the time of the Government's mandate, Janez Janša was passed in 2008 a law on the sharing of profits among workers as well. And with these words you deceive, and in the then government there was also Nova Slovenija. And we have always advocated the rights of workers, respect for workers and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u135	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. However, with regard to the amendment of the United Left, the following facts need to be further clarified: they are proposed by the 10-member Supervisory Board, of which five are employees, and we must take into account, however, that we have also decided on the Committee to include an opposition representative in the Supervisory Board. So if we have a 10-member Supervisory Board consisting of 5 employees and 1 member of the opposition, then of course we put it in the government, which is responsible for the implementation of this law, because the Assembly is also in a very subordinate position and if the matter does not take place, will we go and ask or will we call the responsible employees that something is wrong? The opposition has the task of overseeing, somehow taking responsibility for the decision, is certainly in a government that is forming a congregation. So, the proposal of the United Left could lead to completely different matters being able to talk about this company, not those that are also outlined in the explanation of the law and for which it is actually responsible because it is the Assembly of the Government. So, if we would like to have such a relationship, it would probably be necessary to clear up the additional responsibility of employees, and not least whether the opposition is prepared to take responsibility for decisions that would be contrary to those proposed by the Government. So, for this reason, I cannot support this amendment and there is a much more operational amendment of the coalition, which speaks of an 8-member supervisory council and of which 3 employees, 1 opposition, which is still a ratio of 4:4, but no blocking of the decision will have to be defined in the Act establishing this company that the President also has a decisive vote. This, of course, makes businesses significantly more operational and it is not possible for them to come into a situation where they could not make decisions in a timely and, of course, in particular, in a way that would be as effective as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u137	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. My procedural proposal would be that the opposition will finally cease to be offended in this National Assembly. We know what the role of the opposition is both in the national assemblies and in the bodies we are talking about now. And that, of course, also ceases to offend work, which, somehow, from what Mr speaker has said before me, could be concluded. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u139	Before I give my word to anyone. Now they were two procedural ones, and the coma would be in the debate. For what has now been said before and what has been said now, it is a place in the debate if you want. However, there is no way to use procedurally to prolong the time that the debate is actually going on is not a matter for discussion. Replica, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you. I just want to clarify further, because obviously my implementation has been misunderstood. I've been talking about responsibility and responsibility, (I'm going to do it right now) and responsibility in spite of everything. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u141	It counts in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u142	whatever we are looking at in the Government to ensure the implementation of this law. [[…]] We cannot be employed in this company, to those five representatives as proposed, but now you are responsible for everything, because these powers have not been exercised either, after how they can even assume this responsibility in the way that they might have wanted to understand it or understand it by a colleague. It is right, therefore, to have a clear interest and an influence on decisions, and therefore to believe that the amendment of the coalition is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u143	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, so this amendment to the coalition is due essentially to what happened at the board meeting. As it is now clear to everyone, the Modern Centre Party has advocated that this new company is managed by SDH, which is also established, for all of the country's capital investments, we have a system of regulation. This was the first and best solution for us. Of course, it has not proved to be sufficiently supportive of our coalition partners as well as the opposition. It is obvious that all of them have come to realize that it is still better for policy to become as involved in the management of state-owned enterprises as possible. The reasons are, of course, weighty. This is a company that has broad objectives of its operation, and from this point of view you can understand why it is under the Government, you can understand why four ministries, both an important environmental issue and an economic issue, of course both financial and agriculture. But it's the woods. So it was accepted on the committee, in our opinion, a worse solution. [[?]] But she was accepted. And now this amendment is on the table to harmonise this, to be managed by the Government. And if that, if these were really the reasons, that for broad objectives, that because we need different departments of the field to cover this company, because these goals need to be achieved, then it is okay. But then, at Article 16, it turned out that it was really politics, not that politics wanted to have a little too much to do with this company, as there was also a member of the opposition. But well, this has now been accepted for, as far as we are concerned, it will now have to work and will be composed of several articles, which was originally meant. Now, as far as this increases to ten more members of the Supervisory Board, we are already attaching a million organs, one thing at the last moment, to this company, including the professional world, which may prove to be good. In my opinion, it has great potential, but it is a question, but it can only plague the action of the later one, but we will see how this will turn out. [[Incomprehensible]] But now we add ten more members to the Governing Council. In fact, there are already eight for such a company, but we think there is too much in the Modern Centre. We believe that the interests of workers, only three, will be taken care of well enough and successfully. In addition, if the company grows so much that it will really have a lot of employees, then here we have a world of workers that also affects management and control, in short, that workers have control and influence over this company, in our opinion it is well cared for and in accordance with legislation. That is why, as I said, we will only support the coalition amendment to this article, which is due to the developments on the committee. Unfortunately, we will not be able to support the one proposed by the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u145	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 16a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'll make an application. Mr. Benedict Kopmeyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues from the United Left. I inform you that I will support Article 16a of the amendment to Article 16a. But let me say a few more things about other amendments, because then I won't be answering. The Law on Forest Management, owned by the State, regulates the management of state forests in a new way. Almost all of us are united that the concession method so far has not been good for different reasons. The State, as the forest owner, has found that it receives insufficient resources from its forests in the form of concession fees, that there is a shortage of raw materials, quality wood from these very state forests on the domestic market for the needs of domestic foresters, and that there are increasingly fewer jobs both in forestry and in the wood-processing industry. These shortcomings are attempted by a new law, but of course the solutions it offers do not answer everyone. They do not respond to those who want immediate and as much profit as possible from the forest and wood, but they do not see the other benefits of the forest, and these have been the loudest these days. They question the success of the new state-owned company, threaten to fire employees in forestry companies for lack of work, expect state aid in the resolution of technological surpluses, knock on the social sense of the country, even though, if we are honest in the last 20 years, they have not been overly taken into account. I am sure that it is in Slovenian forests, whether it is national or private, enough work for everyone, of course, with the right approach and organisation of forest management. In my view, the proposal for a law in the process of adoption also makes this possible. It should be noted, however, that the biggest and most important novelty introduced by the law relates to the sale of wood. Over the past 20 years, wood has been sold by concessionaires, and this will be one of the most important tasks of employees in the new state-owned Slovenian State Forests. It is clear to all of us that business, money and profits are generated in the sale of timber, so the success of the new model of forest management will be assessed primarily on the basis of the effects of the sale of wood. And I would like to draw attention to another great advantage. The competence of the new company to sell timber solves a number of problems in the wood market. Wood from state forests will be available to all in quantities and quality under the same conditions. At the same time, this ensures the reliability of supply and the possibility of concluding long-term timber supply contracts, I stress, to domestic processors, the domestic wood-processing industry. That is why, as a citizen and as a member of Desus, I am very interested in the good solutions that the new Law on the Management of State Forests will bring. There is no secret that the proximity of the Austrian border and the wood-processing capacity on the Austrian Koroška magnet are both for forest economies and private people, so that sales of the most quality timber across the border where the prices of wood, payment conditions and the response of woodworkers are significantly better regulated than in Slovenia. However, I would like to point out another important fact that follows the formation of this law in silence. It is not only Austria that waits for the Slovenian shade, we must not forget the neighbouring Croatia, which in the immediate vicinity of the Slovenian border near the highway Zagreb-Reka builds or completes a wood-processing centre of huge capacity. Surely it is not there by chance and accounted for by Slovenian wood. To consider those who oppose the law or are in uncertainty, or to support or reject the law. I am confident that the new state forest management regime will allow for a new development momentum wherever the state forests lie, thus creating conditions for work, new jobs and equal access to work for current and future contractors. I have told you several times that in Koroška we know what the mission of forest and wood is. The new law with the amendments adopted is also a step towards realizing this mission in the form of a Koroan wood-processing centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u147	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to you all again! If I return to the amendment to Article 6a proposed by the United Left, I must say that I support this amendment. There's something else I'd like to say. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the amendment adopted on the Committee was amended accordingly by the United Left Group. The article lays down stricter conditions than those applicable to businessmen under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, otherwise I think it is good. Since it seems to me that this matter relates to the leadership of a future company, I would say what I think about it. The success of the company will depend on the management of the company, which will manage the state forests. Man is always the most important factor or article in this. In addition to the expertise and skills required in this regard, he will also have to be honest, which has not been done so far. Earlier, the opposition's question was where to increase the consumption of wood. I've said something before, and I'll say it again. The possibility is to build wooden buildings, kindergartens, schools, tourist facilities, wooden sound protection instead of concrete along highways, insulation, dressing public buildings, wooden windows and so on. It was a question of what products of high added value were. I'll make it very simple to say, although we had some other things here last time, products at the first presentation, including a wooden butterfly, but today I have a wooden watch. So for those of you who are interested in what added value products are, these are definitely wooden hours. There's barely a good percentage of wood in here, everything else is work and knowledge, and here are the new jobs added if someone doesn't understand it. Of course, it was also a question of what we were going to do when people didn't have the money. I believe that a lot of people don't have money, but products are bought if they don't buy in Slovenia, and they will go to Austria, and we will give the Austrians money. But we must, however, increase the market or consumption at home. As far as money is concerned, I think we know, as well as the vacation that they kind of enjoy, sometimes we say, because some of them barely survive, and the vacations are available elsewhere. So, so much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u149	Yes, Violeta, because I saw you squeeze twice before, so I'll give you my word right away. So Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I will briefly thank all the Members and Members who have supported this amendment and thus have shown a good purpose in protecting this new company that we are setting up. Indeed, we all know that, after independence, state-owned companies have become the focus of clientism, that supervisors and managers have repeatedly exhausted these companies with various advisory contracts and so on. In short, with this amendment, we will prevent the management of a company that will implement and dispose of state forests from doing so as much as possible. Such management will not be able to set up some straw companies to export business out of this company or anything like that. In this way, we will limit the possibility of looting state property as much as possible, and we believe that this is indeed one of the key articles that will curb personal financial appetites of management, so I thank you for your support in this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u151	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u152	We support the proposed amendment of the United Left, because it must certainly be in the interest of managers to follow the law governing integrity and preventing corruption. And last but not least, I can recall that in the last period, together with the opposition, we have come up with good solutions in preventing corruption. One, some time ago, we also wrote a solution in the law on the company to manage bad bank claims. Well, today we can talk about how we are also improving this law by this very provision, so that the members of management will be bound to a law that regulates integrity and prevents corruption. This is also an important message in the second reading of this law in the National Assembly and, as I said, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u153	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u154	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, thank you for your input. Hello again to the minister and the team. The hall has also become a bit full, and I am pleased that such an interest has taken place on, once again, the consideration of a very interesting economic topic. But of course, as a challenge perhaps, with the voices on the left or right, I think that we are here somewhere the same thinking and that it would be good to find a broader, non-stranger coalition on such an economic topic and this would be an excellent opportunity for this law. As far as the support of marriage is concerned, I would in some way invite everyone to support it. After all, we also have a fellow woodman, Mr Tank, on the right. We meet with him several times in the hallway, and we are also discussing forest and wood, and I think it may be an opportunity to find ourselves here in some way. This hallway that separates us sometimes connects us, and I think today is also a great opportunity. To touch the amendments, of course, as far as the amendment of New Slovenia is concerned, it is an amendment that does not seem unnecessary, because it is essentially a carbon footprint, and you are in some way an option that can be included or interpreted as an option for marketing in Article 2 of this Act. So I won't support this amendment. As far as the amendment of the United Left's proposal is concerned, I will not support it either, because, in fact, these public procurement arrangements are laid down in the applicable legislation and it does not need to be explicitly re-explained here and stressed because this is in some way also a restriction in some business initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u155	Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, sorry, sorry. He has a word first, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment to article 29 in New Slovenia was made directly from the title of my colleague, who spoke before me, who announced that he would not support it in order for this wood from Slovenian forests to be transformed into Slovenia, and this is what our amendment, which adds a new 4th point: when selling forest-forest ranges, needs to be taken into account by the short transport route due to carbon footprint. Forest mass from Slovenian forests is expected to be transformed into Slovenia. This carbon footprint could motivate and stimulate businesses that are operating so that they can employ more to develop products and I feel that I do not see why, when we all say that it is necessary to start production in Slovenia, when we make the amendment to really stay in Slovenia and this amendment does not appear to be obedient. The amendment does not conflict with the law in the European Union on the free movement of goods and services, so I think from this point of view I am surprised at the implementation of my fellow Members. I would also like to point out that several times we get the question of who will be processing the wood and who will be processing it. High-mountain farmers also asked questions and this is also related to short transport routes and, of course, also to short production routes or to wood rules. If, however, they do receive any concessions or will have the advantage of a mountain-mountain farmer as promised years ago in the strategy of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the award of concessions in state forests. They are afraid that the Ministry has not forgotten this agreement and, last but not least, I may expect the Ministry to define itself on this amendment and also on my question. But if you haven't forgotten about the mountain-mountain farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u157	The word is given by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u158	Yes, thank you, Madam Member, for the direct question. So I'm answering you directly. I'm glad I have this chance. Such articles are very useful in countries that are large because this means that the raw material will then be sold in its own country. In countries like ours, and if we prescribe it, and if you look at where our forests are, we'll prescribe a lot of them to take wood out of the forest somewhere else, not to Slovenia. This is due to the geographical character of Slovenia in this way a good thought, which is absolutely appropriate, will have the wrong effect, so I am very careful in this form of writing. Please pay attention to the special task that this law imposes on the Government and these are the criteria. However, the criteria are clear, and we will take into account not only the carbon footprint you are giving here. We will also take into account the essence of competence, we will also take into account competence, and we will take into account what we can also say selling works that those who have a conversation to master Slovenian as well. These things are also used by comparable countries for purely understandable reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u159	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I am very much in favour of the NSI proposal because it seems appropriate for us to take this carbon footprint as low as possible so that the transport routes are as short as possible. But I don't think it's the law itself, it's the rules. This is how I now refer to the Minister, and I am confident that the management will write this in the rules and that this will then be done. For then these rules are confirmed by the congregation, this is the Government, and I hope that this will be clearly written there, because this will achieve a double effect. So, environmental protection, as well as the fact that transport routes will allow for more work as short as possible, domestic wood processing industry and domestic operators. So, I think the NSI proposal is in place, and I hope it will be implemented in the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u161	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. Because I have quite a bit of time because I haven't heard from this subject yet, because this was mainly covered by Violet's companion with our super experts, and I'm going to allow myself a little bit of breadth, even though the amendments are being discussed, because everybody took it today. We were talking about the walls, the wood wool, and so on. But I'm gonna start here where Mr. Škodnik ended up. He showed a wooden watch and talked about adding value. Do you know what the added value is for hours? With the number of complications. I don't buy expensive hours and so on, but I'm so viewed that I know. More complications have a clock of higher added value. A hundred-year calendar, moons and so on. This law on forests is such a beautiful example of complications that we have been discussing for some time. Personally, I think we should discuss more time. You know what country they've been seriously discussing the budget for hundreds of days. Because he shuddered at a whole range of interests, of course, the debate is as it is. I come from a profession like all of you, professions aren't monolithic. Even when we say people, people aren't monolithous. There are various interests, which are somewhat evident in the preparation of this law. It also appears, for example, in the fact that the coalition has worked here a lot, I'm going to use a slightly non-academic term, broken down. I appreciate both colleagues from Koroška who are full of talk about this story. I've dealt with some other local and regional development story myself before I ever dreamed of ending up in Maribor, let alone ending up in this building. Now this kind of debate that you are starting, Austria, Austria, Austria, my dears, this is a 30 year or 20-year-old serious project that is entwined in a whole range of issues that crosses a whole range of ministries, which is one of the top development projects that ensure that people remain in the countryside, that they have a decent life there, in this way also locate these wood processing plants. Some of them still seem a little bit down today, and that's kind of tolerated. The other thing is that you also need to know something with high added value to sell. I have spoken here several times in the Middle East Parliament, Austria has a huge logistics terminal for mainly construction, wood products and this is some story that I miss here. You guys here, we kind of said, oh, we're gonna make a forest processing chain, like it's gonna work itself out. Of course, this can't be solved within a few months, it can't be solved by just 20 million. In short, it's a story that needs to be taken more seriously and taken further. That's one. Secondly, this exercise itself, which bothers me more and more in this House, is good luck that here the United Left is in some position a virgin, if I say so myself, everyone else has already been in power or now you are in power to always say how to rush, we are in a time loop, up and down. I mean, the concession lasted 20 years. In the last decade, half the time was in power was also the right-wing mother-in-law. You knew, because from half the duration of the concession, some serious analysis could be done, and five years ago this debate could start, which would be here today, which I would like to talk about if we were already looking at the Austrians. It's the same every time we talk about European matters. And there's a very clear timeline. It's always the last minute with that cohesion. And it seems to me that this is very irresponsible of previous calls, that this is particularly irresponsible of some ministries, because several ministers are sitting on these chairs. Let's cut off this kind of artificial raccoon. Because of course then it rushes, the profession swells up and down and then we always get some half-delivery. In the United Left, somehow with a whole series of amendments, we tried to add some serious security guards so that this new state-owned company doesn't start up, they won't get too far in this country in a direction like some of the past. So they won't be politically occupied, even though let's face it. There's a rumor in public that this is going to be an SD stand. There is also talk of which gentleman is supposed to be the first director. OK, well, you know who, as you say in the coalition quota, has this portfolio, that's your responsibility and, of course, then you'll also answer criminally if it's necessary after all. And another thing, because we're eco-socialists, whatever that means, is White Colleague Plut wrote it very nicely, but reading 200 pages of the book requires one weekend, if not the other, to take it seriously. The forest isn't just profit. This is all about profit. The forest is a relatively beautiful ecosystem, which, of course, must be understood and managed as such. You know, in this light, a Member can say, yes, in 6% of the church forests, they've made more profits. Of course, perhaps because they wanted to see the forest more profitable than elsewhere, this is also a topic for debate. To now focus on this 29th article, where there is no explicit reference in the bill on public procurement by subsidiaries, we have somehow highlighted this. We know some other laws on energy, where a few words have been lost between one and the other, and the subsidiaries have fallen out of control, which is one of the safeguards that the opposition must do, and I hope that you will accept this amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u163	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 30a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you for saying that again. One of the members of the coalition said so-called Court of Auditors. I think it's some kind of insulting diction. The Court of Auditors is an important body in the Republic of Slovenia, I personally think that we should give it even more power. During the weekends, I read their reports, and sometimes I almost cry, and even with these amendments that we have prepared, we have followed such recommendations and advice from the Court of Auditors. Almost crying isn't funny with a government teammate. That's sad. In short, the Minister himself said that they had asked the Court of Auditors for an opinion. We have also read these opinions extensively, we have also been visited by the President of the Court of Auditors, we have also discussed this subject in part, and, of course, today in the State Council, we have had an anniversary of the Institute of Information Commissioners or Commissioners, and we have also taken into account what this institution has said, and in this amendment, we really just want this whole to become a public information provider, which I think should be the practice of all state-owned enterprises, and I would say personally, even all companies where the state retains at least 25% of the share. Who's going to say that now it's a marriage stunt, that maybe it wouldn't work, but that's the transparency that everybody likes to wave at in the pre-election period, and then when we step in here, it forgets too many times? In fact, the amendment follows some of the recommendations made by the Institute of the Information Commissioner and I hope in a transparent manner that you will support it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u165	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, as far as the Court of Auditors’ comments are concerned, they have already been taken into account by our amendment, which we have tabled as a coalition at a meeting of the Committee, and which governs that the Court of Auditors also has an insight into subsidiaries. However, as regards information of a public nature, let me say that in this case, if this amendment were supported, there would be essentially duplication. This is already regulated by the Act on Access to Public Information, which stipulates that companies in which the State is, for example, a majority owner, are subject to this law and do not need to be referred to again in this law. Of course we could, but there's no need for such duplicating. That is why we will not support this amendment in our parliamentary group because it is already regulated by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u167	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 15th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 17.15 p.m. [[The meeting was suspended at 4:43 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u168	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda – this is the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Social Security. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Contributions Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u169	The law which developed this morning has shown that this Parliament is also discussing things that are useful for Slovenian society. The law that is available to this National Assembly gives three different options, three options to take a step forward to keep people in their pockets, so that people would have more. One option is a social slipper, the other is a development cap and the third option is a lower taxation of Christmas. In the New Slovenia Group we will vote that the law is suitable for further consideration and thus give it the opportunity to complete it in the second reading, of course in accordance with your expectations, in accordance with your ideological guidelines and also with your public financial capabilities. However you turn things around, today it has been shown that, at least as regards the lower taxation of the Christmas tree that the matter is indisputable and that it has a virtually broad consensus, the other two proposals have been divided. And in the debate on the committee responsible, it will be practical to show what are the solutions that have the majority support that this bill will eventually become law. All those who were concerned about the public financial consequences should say that the draft law provides for the date of entry into force 1. 1. 2018, which means that the law is not at risk for the two budgets already adopted, but until then we still have time to optimize public spending or, nevertheless, from all the measures that you also claim on the government side will bring certain positive revenue into the state budget, such as the tax and other things, to make this happen in the coming year and a half, two years, but it will prove to be such a way to cover what we would leave to people more with these measures. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group will vote that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u170	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting from me, too. In Slovenia, we currently have 50% of pensioners who receive pensions less than 500 euros, we have a pension allowance that needs to be supplemented every year by more than one billion euros from the budget and we have 200,000 fellow citizens and fellow citizens in the ranks of the health sector. This means that we have a health and pension fund completely exhausted, that resources are not sufficient to enable a decent survival in order to allow decent treatment to those who need it. The proposal proposed by the applicants would take almost an additional billion euros out of these cash registers, or 17% of their funds. Since, of course, we cannot support the collapse or destruction of Slovenian health care and the solidarity pension system in the United Left, we will, of course, reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u172	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group, Mr Tillen Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you for your word. In the Group of Members, we view the debate that has been held today as positive. We are aware of this area that something in this area must also be done, in line with our programme. From the point of view of the approach that has been taken, we somehow disagree with it, says the solutions. Why? Because of the direct consequences for the social treasury. We are talking about over 300 million effects of the reduction in the health treasury, over 600 million at the pension register. Given that the current transfer from the budget to the pension fund is about a billion and a half euros, we see that these cashiers are already being fed. As a result, if these measures were to be taken, they would have to cut down dramatically into a basket of rights arising from there, perhaps including by participating in those who are expected to be further unloaded. Thus, those with the lowest income would probably have to pay a large portion of the services from now on, at least health care, out of their pocket. However, health services are, as we know, very expensive. For these reasons, we will not support this law. However, we look forward to further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u174	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. We will vote against the proposal for a decision, because we must, however, ask ourselves whether it is in the people's interest to have lower pensions and to have a lower standard of health care, which would certainly be the result of the adoption of the law proposed by the applicants. Indeed, for EUR 700 000 million, incomes in pension and health allowance are being reduced, only because some would have a net salary higher at the moment, but later they would feel the consequences of this action in pensions and, of course, if they were sick, even in the quality of health care. I don't think we can afford it, especially for all those with average or underaverage salaries, to bring them into a situation where they have to pay for it if they want to have adequate health care from their own pocket, because they will certainly be spending that part of the net salary they may receive by then due to other vital needs. By proposing, even in the future, that laws that interfere in such an important area as the tax burden or the unloading of one or another segment, i.e. either the employer or the employees, however, take a full look at the situation we are currently in Slovenia. Whether capital is actually taxed in the way it is comparablely taxed in the European Union. i.e., the data show that only 3.7% of the capital tax is taxed and, on the other hand, we note that the profits in companies in Slovenia are significantly lower, some 17% compared to Germany and other important European countries, which we consider to be the most competitive of about 30, 33%, and also a trend within the European Union, to try to simplify the view of taxation there to 25%. These are the questions that [[sign for the end of the debate]] They need to be analysed before we go into a change of law that also affects the situation and status of people. Therefore, in our view, this would make the status of the people worse and we will therefore vote against the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u176	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Of course, we cannot support this bill in the Desus Group. According to our firm belief, it is not going in the right direction, it is contrary to the principles of righteousness, it is against the principles of solidarity and such solutions that we do not, of course, support. We firmly believe that this affects those of the most vulnerable target groups, but in some ways it is the forgiveness or additional privilege of those who already have too much. The non-social cap, not the so-called social slippers, is not a solution to meet the needs of the most vulnerable target groups to excuse people from fleeing abroad to escape young people abroad. But these and similar measures will not save them. It is necessary to take a comprehensive look at and highlight the issue in the context of social policy solutions, family policy, housing, fiscal rather than seeking some partial measures at this point. Of course, it is ours, I believe, that our sincere objective is to actually improve the situation of those who need the most, by these measures we certainly do not come to this. As long as Desus' voice is heard in Parliament and far beyond such a solution, they will not look at the light of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u178	Any other explanation for the voice? On my own, and then I'm asking for a report because there's more of you. An explanation of the voice in his own name, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision because I look forward to further discussion and if we do not vote in favour of some, it will be very sad because there will be no debate. In 2008, Slovenia reached 82, 92, 92, 92, 92, 92% of the European Union's average development. Today, we are about 15% of the European Union's average development. With the same business policy, the economic policy we have so far will have more pensioners, not just half who will have a hard time spending a month with the same economic policy as we have today, we will have more people than just 50,000 on the minimum wage and the trend is increasing. And there are more and more pensioners who are struggling to survive. And I will vote in favour of my colleagues and colleagues because I understand that the capital of the beach birds 8 of the 12 richest Slovenians today work and live, have businesses outside. Our companies go out, they go out of Slovenia and do the same things and expect better results is the definition of crazy after Albert Einstein [[sign for the end of the debate]] and that is why I will vote in favour of this decision and look forward to further discussions at second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u180	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u181	I will vote in favour because this law pays people a minimum wage of 50 euros each month more because it brings more wages to all citizens with a double engineer, and because it brings more Christmases to all citizens. At the same time, this law does not reduce access to health services; we already have the same right to health care, regardless of how much we pay for health care more or less, we all have the same rights and the system continues and this law does not reduce pensions for those with the lowest income or minimum wage. Of course, this law requires the country to make a considerable effort over the next two years to provide more people with a job by paying more people back to health and pension bills. It requires the effort of the country to start effectively pursuing the grey economy and also demands the efforts of the state to pursue work in black. This is where the story turns. If this government coalition has so far imposed these efforts for fiscal consolidation on the part of people or the taxation economy, this law reverses logic and leaves people with more money, but on the other hand, it requires hard work on the part of the country, which is why I support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u182	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. At the outset, I must say that I will not vote that the law is suitable for further consideration. Of course, I will ask respected colleagues and colleagues from New Slovenia who wrote you an economic programme. According to the knowledge of your membership, I can safely claim that they would not accept or support something like this. You know that we support those who have large salaries and employers is very wrong, because I consider these higher salaries to be, if you like, but I do not like to say this because we have also contributed to the times of crisis and recession, and we are also giving this in some way to give support to Members, government officials, management authorities, senior officials, maybe there is an engineer, and everyone else would not enjoy it. Do you realize that this would be EUR 600 million less in the pension allowance and EUR 300 million less in the health allowance and, to remind you, that the budget should be EUR 1.4 billion in pension allowance, especially because in the past they have reduced the contribution of employers to the pension allowance by half and we are insolvent in the European Union. All of this points me in the direction that I really cannot accept or support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u184	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. I won't support the proposal. I can brief him on some childhood chorus. They flew in, didn't take the hat, they took the boy. And this little boy on this proposal is young and older. I remember how, when we have amended the budget, New Slovenia will not be able to repay the debts. I may have even liked it in part sometimes as a united leftist, but I don't know if it's crazy responsible – now her young people in Berlin, the EPP educated leader says, oh what, because it's only two years from now, this billion, I say among other things, all citizens will go up Christmas. Look, I think colleague Tonin, most of the citizens of Christmas will never see, in their present state. I agree, however, with the Member sitting at seat 90, that we need an economic industrial policy, because without it the pensions will be even lower, and without it the bear of Members and Members will not be lower. Very domestically, we need some marginal conditions that will allow for the next decade, that will not be lost, that we will get half a dozen collectors, if I make it very clear to you that Nova Slovenija will understand. [[Incomprehensible]] This, of course, will not be achieved by such pleasing proposals. I have said several times in this National Assembly that we must move on to some more intelligent taxation, that we must first ask ourselves why some taxes and what policies are being monitored. I read the Guardian this morning, and it says, "Death of the Fallen, that's the end of the day." And let's talk a little bit more about funeral activity, and it wouldn't be a shame to start talking a little bit more wisely about taxes. I'll vote against it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u186	Procedural? I'm asking if there's any other explanation for the voice? Explanation of the vote, Mrs. Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u187	Nicely greeted. I will not vote in favour of this bill alone because public finances need to be balanced. This law, however, interferes with medical and pension bills. That's why we're going to be in the party or I'm going to define myself with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u188	Explanation of the vote by Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u189	Of course, I will vote for the law. Also because I hear from the economists how urgently these measures are necessary. And if we overtax the middle layer or young researchers, our entrepreneurs have a problem because they go to other countries. And then all we have is that low-paid workforce and no added value. And we need quality, high-tech products. On the other hand, I often hear we pay off the Christmas tree, but this country picks up half of it. And they're looking for other options, from prosciuttos to champagnes and so on. And I think that money would still be good for people, of course, without half the country taking it from it. Young people are leaving abroad educated because they are unemployed because we do not allow entrepreneurs to earn a little more and invest again in expanding production. These are jobs and these are pension funds. You say that only the state must contribute as much as possible to this cash pension, of course, because pensioners have earned pensions, but we will have the most in line with this if many people will be employed and will pay their contributions. And you don't want to hear it. I will vote in favour of this law because I think this is a step in the first direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u190	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support the proposal because it constitutes an essential intervention in the social security system. But for health care, it just means disaster. Actually, it's true. We all have the same rights on paper. However, the fact is that these services must be paid somewhere. And with hundreds of millions less in the health treasury, these rights will, of course, be reduced accordingly. On the one hand, people are actually offered an additional €50 in their pocket, as the motioner claims. The second pocket, however, will take hundreds of euros for social rights. Therefore, once again, I cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u192	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u193	This time, I am in favour of Slovenia being a more competitive country, attracting foreign investors and thus opening new jobs, which is why I will vote in favour of this law, which means lower taxes. People deserve it. This law gives them two options. Those who have the lowest wages, those who are also on the social side, and with this law, we will enable them to receive more than 50 euros at the end of the month. That's the first thing. The second thing, helping economists and people to pay Christmas money as a reward to employees, is then more motivated. The debate has shown differences, especially in the perception of the conceptual difference in perception of what taxes are, what taxes are not. However, the problem arises when it appears that some, particularly from the political prestige of the opposition's good proposals, which envision better wages, do not want to support better wages. And I regret this through all this debate and even today's vote, even through today's vote. Slovenia must become a more competitive country in this global market and if we do not do something soon, time will overtake us and everyone you say [[sign for the end of the debate]] that this would mean this proposal of our law a disaster for the health treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, the health treasury will be in disaster due to poor demographic policy and demographic indicators, corruption clientism and the fact that the ruling coalition also rejects health reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u194	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. Then we vote. There are 81 Members and Members present, 27 for them and 54 for them. [[There were 27 votes in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision, so the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law is concluded. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda – this is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Forest Management owned by the Republic of Slovenia under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 27. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 10. There are 67 Members and Members present, 10 for them and 55 for them. [[Ten votes in favour.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 10a. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u195	Yes, thank you for your word. In the United Left, we believe that Article 10a, which lays down specific conditions for obtaining guarantees, should be deleted. The deletion does not, of course, mean that Slovenian state forests will not be able to rent credits, not with the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia, but that these guarantees must be subject to standards that also apply to all other state-owned enterprises and other entities. If we look at the comparison of the criteria for granting guarantees proposed for SDG with the criteria in the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for financing companies' investments, we see a significant difference. In the case of companies, only the capital of the loan is included in the total amount of the guarantee obligations, i.e. in the case of interest-bearing companies, and without interest and costs, for example, in the case of state forests. If we look at the scope of the loan for companies, it must not be less than 1 year and in the case of state forests it must not be less than 7 years and not longer than 25 years and so on. The dispute is also the 9th point in which the true State will fulfil the guarantee obligation within 10 working days of receiving the creditor’s call, which shows that despite its call for the agreed deadline, the borrower has failed to fulfil the outstanding obligation. In short, the State will only have 10 days to examine the creditor's call to determine whether the call is justified or not, and so on. I think or worse, within 10 days, the state will have to fulfil the guarantee obligation. Please also invite you to attend TES 6 the National Assembly voted on the guarantees, and the conditions were even worse, but the directors drove you through the water. Therefore, in order to avoid further parliamentary investigations that might happen, please reconsider and I call on you to support our amendment, which says that Article 10a is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u196	We're voting. Ops, I'm sorry, I'm interrupting who it is. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Members, mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, President. Article 10a of the draft law in the second paragraph of paragraphs 1 to 10 clearly defines all the necessary components for the guarantee contracts that are necessary. The fact is that in the ninth indent of this paragraph there is a discussion of the subsidiary guarantee. I believe that all those who know what a subsidiary guarantee means is a perfectly reasonable deadline, which is stated. However, the eleventh indent of this same paragraph makes it very clear that this guarantee contract will apply if it has previously obtained the consent of this National Assembly. On this occasion, I would like to point out, however, that this Article 10a must by no means be compared to the so-called Bianca menu. And when all these procedures have been completed, then the signing of the guarantee contract with the Minister of State, in this case the Minister of Finance, will follow. Therefore, the amendments tabled by the United Left Group will not be supported by the modern centre's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u198	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 55. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 15 under number one. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors shall become a United Left to the same Article under number 2 and 3 irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 for them and 18 for them. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD by Article 15 to Article 15 was adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left to the same Article under Article 2 and Article 3 became irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 16a. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour and 6 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 29 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 29 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 53 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 30a. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Although we are very happy in the United Left that an amendment was adopted that added Article 30a, which deals with the supervision of the Court of Auditors. We have also proposed the same amendment in this regard, but we have also taken into account the concerns of the information officer in our amendment, in addition to the Court of Auditors' concerns on the proposal for a law. In our opinion, the Slovenian National Forest Company must be committed to public access. Since the beginning of the examination of this law in the National Assembly, this law has already improved considerably in terms of ensuring transparency in the functioning of Slovenian state forests. However, he still lacks a point in which this company would also become committed to the provision of information of a public nature. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u200	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 49. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Article 45. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 10. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the second reading, they were accepted for less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law and that the representative of the proposed law already proposed in the discussion of the amendments tabled that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third consideration of the draft law at this meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 18. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 3rd reading of the bill will be done on Tuesday, 2. 2. 2016 at 2 p.m. The services of the National Assembly will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles which will include the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. [[…]] Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Funeral Activities and the Management of Cemetery, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Law on Funeral Activities and the Management of Cemeteries is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 6. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Media, within the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 26. 1. 2016 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as the proposer of the draft law, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would have carried out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly in the second reading would not have brought the proposal of the law into line. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we will be absolved in the vote on the amendment of the Media Law. There are several reasons for this. On the one hand, it offers an attempt to regulate the hate speech in commenting online, which we welcome and is certainly an important step, at the same time bringing the right to correction into line with the Constitutional Court's decision. The main question is, of course, quotas. In view of the fact that they have been corrected, since they have long been legal, we have twice proposed in the United Left that quotas should become more than administrative barriers. Both times, however, we did not receive any attention. In fact, there has to be a lot of skepticism up to the music quotas. I wonder if there is really a way for the music scene to develop, to stimulate the quality and variety of music production of domestic artists, to encourage young and less established creators. In short, the coalition has changed the content of the provisions several times, but it is obviously not about the real progress of quality music creation. We have proposed that part of the quotas be allocated to young and unenforced musicians, which you did not want to accept. We were outvoted. The country is a vehicle of public cultural interest and is responsible for music culture and this in its entirety, not only in the public media. However, it is obvious that the public interest in this government represents a completely different, false one. You'll be the ones who will be wearing the consequences of the sealing of your ears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-01-28-SDZ7-Redna-15.ana.u202	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and adjourn the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday, 2. 2. 2016 at 2 p.m.
