ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 23rd session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Violeta Tomić, mag. Tanja Zink by 2 p.m., Andrei Chush, mag. Matthew Tonin, Uroš Prikl, Jan Škoberne until 16:00 and Dr. Dragan Matić until 12 noon. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we go to the 18th item of the agenda, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Despite the many important topics and acts we are considering these days, I invite you to stop in the lobby of this hall for at least a moment by the end of this week and see the exhibition On the Broken Wings of Development. The exhibition was created in the framework of the European Union’s Financing for Development and Co-financing project and was prepared by the Focus Society in substance, which sought to present exposés of international funding with undesirable effects on developing countries. While Slovenia also allocates a share of the funds in the context of international development cooperation in the form of humanitarian assistance to countries affected by natural disasters, armed conflicts and other major-scale disasters. However, humanitarian efforts are aimed at saving lives, preventing or facilitating human suffering, and maintaining human dignity. Let me recall, however, that almost a year ago, in November 2015, the National Assembly also hosted a conference on Slovenian Development Days to discuss current challenges in the field of international development cooperation. The exhibition is therefore substantively linked to that conference and is time-consuming with further reflection. On the 17th day yesterday. Ten. 2016 marks the international day against poverty. Kindly invited to the tour! We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, it is for the Department of Health's defence of the work and responsibility for the Lady's dear Kolar Celarc's health. The Interpellation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to be signed. I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative for further explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u2	Dear, good-bye! We therefore have before us the intervention against Minister Milojko Kolar Celarc of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Before the introduction of the month of September in the parliamentary group, we drew attention to various anomalies in Slovenian health care both at the meetings of the Health Committee and at the meetings of the National Assembly with various recommendations, proposed conclusions on corruption in health, waiting periods, issues of the Health Act, emergency medical care, etc. The unsustainable state of health has also escalated with tragic events that should never have happened and also reflected in the dissatisfaction of the professional and the general public and have led to an intervention against Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. At the time of her term of office, the Minister stated that a comprehensive change of the health system was urgently needed in Slovenia. She stressed that changes were needed because of the various factors and that sufficient resources should be provided for health care if we want all citizens to have equal, safe and immediate access to health services. The Minister announced that she would modernise the public health services system in the sense that the responsibility of the boards of institutions would be increased and that competent and responsible people and health professionals were appointed to the posts of directors. In her opinion, directors should be given a few more powers to implement measures and successfully run public health institutions. The work of Minister Kolar Celarc so far does not follow the words of September 2014 and her words were more than apparently empty words. In its two-and-a-half-year work, the Minister failed to implement the coalition commitments, nor did she follow her words that her way of working on the negotiation, teamwork, strength of arguments, and that in the end there will be constructive solutions based on consensus and negotiation that will be good for individual projects. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, in her reply to the interpolation, wants to reject all the indications in the interpolation in the introduction and also later in the replies by discrediting the proposer. The applicants are given an annex to the media contributions, although they include irregularities, weaknesses and health affairs for which the director is responsible and cannot be overlooked. At the same time, when it suits her, she refers to a publication in one of the printed media, the newspaper Delo, which should prove that we do not have a bad medical condition. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc argues that health care has not been a priority of any government's past and that the very introduction to the response to interpretation has led to the blame of the former governments and ministers. According to her, in 23 years, nothing has been done in health care and the health system needs upgrades and to correct past mistakes. For her failure in her reply in the introduction, the Minister also states that since the beginning of this government's mandate, the management of medical organisations has been opposed to commitments under the coalition agreement. On the one hand, it shows itself as a victim, but on the other hand as a solver of the Slovenian health system. The fact is that health care has not been the priority of this government to date. Today, when we listen to how health care should be regulated in the words of the Prime Minister and the words of the Minister. The Minister of Health is still not talking about reform, but about upgrades, beauty repairs in health care, which accuses the main stakeholders in the health system of its own failure. The President of the Government supports Minister Milojko Kolar Celarc and, in the background, plans to reduce the health contribution from 6.6 GDP to 6 GDP. In doing so, the Minister speaks of increasing funds for health care, implementing cosmetic corrections and acting arrogantly towards all other proposals. Whether health reform will begin to take root and initially depends on the President of the Government, the Minister and the Coalition. In doing so, as we have pointed out in previous implementations, we are also prepared to participate in the opposition, ready to participate in the professional public and civil society. The Ministry of Interpellation is primarily responsible for the failure to prepare key health legislation that would allow for an integrated reform of health care in Slovenia. Minister Kolar Celarc would like to contradict these statements at the beginning of the response to interpretation by ensuring that the Slovenian system is a good system and refers to the health and theoretical calculations, such as projections of life expectancy at birth, which, among other things, is not just the result of the treatment of the disease. As evidence of successful work in the field of health reform, reference is made to activities representing regular, ongoing work of the director, such as the adoption of various rules, guidelines, resolutions or action plans. Some are expected to apply even backward, for example in 2015 to adopt an action plan for the implementation of the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the health of children and adolescents in relation to the environment, which should apply from 2012 to 2020. The Minister constantly stresses that primary health care in Slovenia is at an envious level, even better than in neighbouring countries. In doing so, it would be good to indicate which neighbouring countries it compares Slovenia with. The fact is that Slovenia has 48% fewer family doctors than the EU, 28% and that they are overloaded. Therefore, the statement that we have very good primary health care is a very courageous statement. Primary health care is good only because of dedicated family doctors and other professional workers who are overworked today. The regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014, 2015 and 2016 shows that the preparation and adoption of key laws, which represent the possibility of a comprehensive reform of the health system of deviation in 2017, is being prepared and adopted. To date, the Ministry of Health has drafted the Health Act, which was published in the public debate in September 2015. According to the Slovenian Medical Chamber, that body did not participate in the preparation of the content as provided for in Article 71 of the Health Act. The proposal itself met with sharp criticisms, which focused mainly on unequal treatment of public health institutions with concessionaires and doubts about the harmonisation of the proposed law with Slovenian and European legislation. The proposal for the Health Act only regulates the field of concessions and removes the private initiative in the field of health in the long term. I am talking, of course, about the abolition of concessions by transferring healthcare management exclusively to public institutions. Since the public presentation of the Health Act, one year has passed and the fact is that we still do not have this law in the procedure in the National Assembly for Adoption. The following law, to be drawn up by Minister Kolar Celarc, who is part of the health reform, was discussed in the National Assembly days ago. This law met with almost complete rejection in the National Assembly. More than 65% of the articles were found to be illegal by the Legislative and Legal Service and also illegal in certain articles. In several articles, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out a possible violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the laws of the Republic of Slovenia. The law itself was rejected by two coalition parties, Desus and SD. It is unreasonable that Minister Kolar Celarc, with the support of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Cerar, in any way, wanted the proposal of an anti-constitutional law, which was warned by the Legal and Legal Service, the Information Commissioner, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Municipality, the Mayors, the Private and Public Pharmacy, to appear or even adopt such a law in the National Assembly. The champion of Desusa, President of Desusa, Mr Karl Erjavec even declared that the law had broken. The last but most important fact is that the Minister has not yet drafted the Health and Health Insurance Act. This is the law governing the healthcare and health insurance system, provides for social care providers for health and their tasks, health care in relation to work and the working environment, regulates the relationship between health insurance and health services and the exercise of health insurance rights. According to the entry in the reply to the interpolation, the law is supposed to be in public debate at the end of the year. Let me stress, however, that this law is listed in the coalition agreement as a key law and law that will be the first to be dealt with, but it is clear that the Minister still hides the bill from both coalition partners and the professional public today. In 2015, the Minister announced, as a major achievement and a major step in the health reform, the adoption of the Emergency Medical Service Regulation. This rule would also be adopted in complete secrecy if it were not brought to the attention of public health institutions, hospitals, mayors, municipalities, associations of municipalities, professional public, civil society. At the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, recommendations were adopted obliging the Minister to inform the National Assembly before the adoption of the Emergency Medical Regulation. The secretary didn't do it. The Regulation was published in the Official Journal. Ten. In 2015, the Minister informed the Health Committee of the final proposal of the Emergency Medical Regulation a month later, 11. 11th, which is also mentioned in the reply. Minister Kolar Celarc also represented the Emergency Medical Regulations as a sub-law regulating the operation of emergency centres. In addition, she spoke at a meeting of the Home Committee and later at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 5 June 2015, when she promised that the Emergency Medical Regulations would go in order to regulate the functioning of the Emergency Centres, the Dispatching Centre and to regulate the Rules on the provision of uninterrupted health care. By the end of February 2016 at the latest, all patients in 10 locations where emergency centres have been established should visit a doctor instead of in a health care facility in an emergency centre building. Despite the Minister's assurances, the organisation of emergency centres has still not fully adapted, due to the lack of doctors and financial resources. Let me give you the example of Jesenic, the information system Novo mesto, an increased visit that was not expected at the emergency centre, personnel, financial problems, Celje, lack of specialist emergency medicine, organization of work, division of work between the hospital and the healthcare home, problems with funding, in Šempetr at Nova Gorica increased work volume, too few emergency doctors, Slovenj Gradec, also too few doctors to mention everyone. The Minister shall, in her reply to the interpretation of this area, respond to her ignorance. At the time of taking over the project, I should not have known that there was any problem with the establishment of emergency centres. If she did not know this at the time of the acquisition of the Ministry, she was informed of this at the latest in February 2015 when the first meeting was on the topic of emergency centres or emergency medical assistance in the National Assembly. By then, health homes, hospitals, and others had been alerted to the staffing and other problems of emergency centres. At the meeting of the National Assembly in early 2015, attention was also given to pediatrics in emergency centres. At the time, the State Secretary and also the Minister were aware that they were aware of the problems of non-inclusion of paediatrics in emergency centres. It was therefore expected that these matters would be settled and harmonised for at least a year. To this day, pediatrics at emergency centres have not been regulated. An interesting information given by the Minister in his reply is also the new 266 posts in the emergency centres. It does not say whether it is an emergency doctor, a nurse or anyone else, or a whole new job or just a transfer within hospitals or health homes. It is her opinion that the Medical Chamber, which calls for specialisations, is to blame for the lack of specialists in emergency medicine, in the opinion of the Minister. At the same time, the Minister does not say that the call for specialisation is indeed prepared by the Medical Chamber, and the Minister gives the consent. Thus, in the absence of emergency medical specialists, this behaviour could lead to an increase in the number of specialisations, as was praised in the response, in the area of the number of specialisations in paediatrics. So the Minister can achieve an increase in the number of proposed specializations by the Medical Chamber if that is what she wants. The fact is that the Ministry of Health is already deciding and participating in the planning of specialisations. The fault on the part of the Minister is that the public network is still not ready because standards are not regulated, without which it is not possible to plan optimally, nor to plan specialisations. Because of the non-admission of system laws and thus allowing unregulated health conditions, the minister also allows poor financial conditions in Slovenian hospitals. In the first half of this year, 29 public institutions showed losses at the end of last year's 8. Of this, 14 hospitals operated negatively in the first half of last year, the end of last year's 3 and 13 health homes, the end of last year's 3. Those who did business negatively collectively generated 20.5 million euros in losses, which is 263% more than the same period of the previous year. Of this, the loss in hospitals amounted to 19.3 million euros and is higher by 310 % compared to the same period last year. A maximum of EUR 12.37 million was created in hospitals by the University Clinical Centre UKC Ljubljana, the Shempeter Hospital and UKC Maribor. At the monitoring session of the Commission, the Secretary of State said that UKC Ljubljana is expected to lose €19 million at the end of the year, three times as much as it did last year. In response, the Minister argues that half a year's results show an increasingly poor situation than at the end of the year. Indicates what it will do to ensure that additional resources are obtained for health care: a tobacco cent, i.e. a new tax, and a transformation of supplementary health insurance. If the minister had done so earlier, that is, in those two and a half years, public health agencies could have made it much easier to plan or prepare financial plans for the future. The Minister thus prolongs the financial anarchy by not adopting the sectoral legislation and somehow supports the financial deterioration of public health institutions. If, in the beginning, the Minister has promised to achieve better governance and management of public health institutions by appointing competent people, she has achieved the opposite. Our biggest hospital, because the minister insisted on her choice to appoint a CEO, recorded twice a loss over the past six months, not only financial losses, but also more and more affairs occurring in this biggest hospital of ours. The Minister adopted a protocol to discharge the appointment of members of the Board of Institutions. According to Milojka Kolar Celarc, this rule was established on an expert basis and also appoints members on an expert basis to the sacred institutions. According to people and those who are involved in the appointment in sacred institutions, this is happening far from professionalism and only on a political basis. A total of 88 members of the 134-month boards of institutions were replaced. In its reply and in all public implementations, the Minister always advocates zero tolerance for corruption. These are interesting statements so much more if we know that in its opinions and also in the opinion of the Minister, the Government has always rejected proposals by the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to speed up the implementation of certain measures in the field of prevention of health corruption. This was also followed by coalition members. As an effective fight against corruption, the Minister cites common public procurement, which we know is not the solution to a stronger fight against corruption. However, despite the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, hospitals still do not keep records of medical equipment, which is necessary to provide needs and to plan purchases in a timely manner. In order to settle this by July 2016, the Minister of Auditors assured the Court of Auditors in her reply to the Court of Auditors’ comments, and now it is a fact that this is not done and that it is expected to be around by the end of 2016. The fact that the Prime Minister of the Government has stated, as we know, that Slovenia is a mafia state, that the Minister has not responded to the words v.d. Directors of UKC Ljubljana on health corruption, that the Minister did not support recommendations in the National Assembly to call on competent institutions to accelerate activities in the field of corruption investigations. However, it is clear to the Slovenian Democratic Party that it has not reported the acts described in the interpretation. It is more than clear that these are acts that have already been reported to the competent authorities, but to this day we have not experienced a judicial epilogue. That is why we have also proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party at the beginning of this year the establishment of a parliamentary inquiry in the field of sales and the acquisition of vascular resistors. We expect the Minister to answer the question of how many lobbyist contacts have been reported by the Ministry of Health and how many criminal cases have she passed so far, also because she claims to be regulating the area of concessions because they have so far been distributed in a transparent manner through knowledge, i.e. illegal. Corruption is also linked to waiting periods, as we have seen recently. Waiting periods in Slovenian health care are one of the most pressing problems of Slovenian health care and are a response to all the anomalies of our health system. The Minister's excuse that waiting days are the problem of all countries of the world is extremely irresponsible and irresponsible. The fact is that the number of people waiting for the first outpatient review in a year has increased by 6% and those waiting for an inadmissible period for the first review by 26%, with a view to ensuring the constitutional right to healthcare being totally unacceptable last year. The Minister is not aware of the problem enough because it is a systemic problem that cannot be solved. This is the biggest challenge of health reform, which must include the human resources and other capacities in health care that are sufficient. Pending periods will continue to grow without thorough systemic intervention or will not solve the current financial stimulus. The project to shorten waiting periods, with which the Minister is very much pleased, is incomplete. It covers only two hospitals, four health homes and one specialist hospital, and not even our largest public health institution UKC Ljubljana. This is a lack of scope for a good end to this project. The project reduces only some waiting periods or waiting periods in some areas set by the Ministry, which again discriminates against other patients. Not to mention that additional programmes to shorten waiting periods have been granted to operators illegally, without criteria and without tender. The Minister behaves extremely irresponsiblely, arrogantly, and is unaware of the prevalence of the problem until the waiting period is extended. He constantly points out that patients and doctors are responsible for long-term waiting periods. Doctors are the ones who deserve that the health system has not yet broken down itself. The Minister's statements that doctors and patients who report to a number of doctors for waiting periods are politically incorrect, discredit healthcare workers, including those who work well and faithfully in carrying out their mission. The problem of waiting periods is not taken into account by doctors who are overloaded in their work and feel increasingly pressured in their work by patients as well. The waiting periods were also associated with a tragic event, as I said should not have happened. The denial of the causal link between the waiting period and the tragic event is more than sufficient reason to assume the objective responsibility of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. "Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc enjoys my full support because the right person is in the right position to realize for all of us a common vision of better Slovenian health." This is a statement by the President of the Government of Dr Cerar and continues: "When I appointed her Minister of Health, I knew she would improve the lives of our citizens and citizens and improve the health system to be what we deserve." On this point, however, the question is whether Slovenian citizens deserve the health system we currently have. Citizens and citizens here and now feel a health crisis on their own. The availability of health services is not guaranteed for all the same and is not always good, as evidenced by the longer and longer waiting types. Citizens and citizens do not feel the improvement of the health system referred to by Dr Cerar and do not show that it will be better in the future under this Minister. In the text of the interpellation we presented and proved with arguments both objectively and subjectively the responsibility of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc for the state of Slovenian health. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we call on all Members to support the intervention against the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u3	Mrs Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health's reply to the interpretation, you received 30. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I give the floor to Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc to explain the written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Members and Members, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues from the Government, citizens and citizens! With exact surgical precision, I intend to respond to each of the eight chapters of the interpolation proposed by the biggest opposition party. But first of all, let me tell you why I am here before you, and not only today as the Minister of Interoperation, but for the last two years since you gave me 10 votes at the hearing of the Health Committee in September 2014 and thus confirmed the intention of the President of the Government to trust me with this resort. Then why am I here before you? For the first time, because my colleagues and I, Mira Cerar, have written today the parties of the modern center electoral program Health in the very beginning of creative society as a fundamental benefit of quality of life. Secondly, because we have promised, with colleagues from Social Democrats and the Democratic Party of Pensioners in the coalition agreement, adjustments to the existing health system in the light of the strengthening of public health, taking into account its financial sustainability, with a view to maintaining the rights of as full a compulsory health insurance as possible and a clearer separation of public and private health activities. We have committed ourselves to strengthening the public health system in a way that will ensure that all insured persons have equal opportunities for health care when they need it and are entitled to it. And thirdly, because we are doing everything we can to find sufficient room for affordable, quality and effective health care while insisting on financial sustainability and the achievement of modern medicine with our colleagues at the Ministry of Health and with all concerned doctors, nurses and other health professionals in Slovenian health care. That is why I am here before you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, because we have been elected by the mandate of public health, because we have coalitionly committed ourselves to strengthening public health and because we believe with all our heart and soul that universality and accessibility to legally defined health services are possible only through the solidarity of providing funds for them. I'm starting to get dramatic, because this time the interpolation is also dramatic, but not because of its possible consequences, but because of its reasons. The Slovenian public has been following parliamentary policy long enough to judge when interpellation is politically challenged and when interesting. Here we are in the temple of politics and politics in their plurality are always a worthy occasion for discussion. But if political instruments such as interpellation are behind partial and partial interests, not serious policies, then their credibility is mined by the proponents themselves. Today, when I answer one after the other, I will not defend myself, but the policy of public health in Slovenia, public, accessible and solidarity. And at each point, it will be revealed separately, which and whose interest does not correspond to that of public, accessible and solidarity. First time. Is it true that the key health legislation that would allow for a comprehensive reform of health care in Slovenia is not in preparation? No, that's not true. First, we analyzed the medical system to find out where we were. It has been attended by more than 80 experts from such respected institutions as the World Health Organization and the Observatory for Health Systems and Policies. Another important document was the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 Together for the Health Society, which you adopted in March this year in the National Assembly, which gives us a strategic framework in which health will develop over the next ten years. It was only on this basis that an action plan for development could really be pursued, since you are not going to write the law to untie the strategy, but to create the conditions for the implementation of the plan and improve the situation. And now we're here. On the basis of the analysis, strategy and plan, we are preparing rules to be adopted within the mandate of this government. Another time. Consider whether my responsibility in establishing and operating a network of emergency centres in Slovenia is worthy of interpretation or prior praise. When I became Minister of Health in September 2014, the Brežice Emergency Centre was almost finished. The Izola and Novo Mesto Emergency Centre were still fighting for funds before the construction of the Nova Gorica Emergency Centre. The other emergency centers were being built. Today, all 10 emergency centres are operational. I have taken over the project without the planned staff and without funding for the implementation of the activity. More. Since then, no one has pointed to the lack of personnel or demanded additional labour. Today we can say that with the new emergency centres we have created 266 new jobs that provide high quality medical treatment in the context of emergency medical care and thus high added value in the Slovenian health system. The funds for emergency medical care do not decrease in the regions, on the contrary. In the 2015 general agreement, we have provided funding of €13.4 million and an additional €3.1 million in the 2016 agreement. The Emergency Medical Service Regulation was prepared by the expert working group, and at all centres we were either at the presentation of the Regulation or by the Secretary of State or by myself. Only at our field work meetings, when the emergency centres were just ahead of completion, did the problem of paediatric emergency centres become serious for the first time. I listened to the initiatives and set up a working group on 25 March to make recommendations for the organisation of work in the paediatric emergency centres. The successful pediatric emergency service is already operating in the Emergency Centre of Celje. Let me stress that children are not deprived of anything, for all of them, even children are provided with the necessary medical care provided by rescue services, family medicine specialists and specialist doctors in emergency centres. I strongly reject the insinuation of the interpellators to postpone the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. Already on a government visit to March this year, I told the General Hospital Management that we can begin immediately with the procedures for the construction of this centre, as planned, as I have provided 1.9 million euros in the budget. Third time. Do you really think you can attribute responsibility for the poor financial situation in Slovenian health to a minister who only took care of an increase of more than 200 million euros in the first half of her term? Already in 2014, we provided 30.3 million euros per year and 9 million for the last quarter. In 2015, an additional €57.1 million more and in 2016, €60.2 million more for the provision of health services. I have been making public my mandate since 2009 that the health crisis has reduced funding for the implementation of health programmes by around €420 million. Health care contributions are highly dependent on changes in the labour market, the economic crisis in Slovenia has led to significant reductions in health-care inflows due to an increase in unemployment, slower wage growth, an increase in the proportion of inactive debtors who contribute to fewer and insufficient countercyclical measures to finance the healthcare system each month. It is known where we are looking for broader solutions to this situation. And why do they want to take us away with the interpolation? Because we will reshape supplementary health insurance and because health benefits will be made by those who endanger this health by their products, such as tobacco products. I am fighting to increase the part of the integrated budget for specialisation and tertiary education. While you are fighting for just goals to increase the level of solidarity in society and by being wrongly indebted to your inherited financial situation, the difference is between day and night. Remember, there's 3.2 billion euros in health care. And there are so many interests. Fourth time. Do you really think that you can blame the Minister for not taking action in the area of waiting periods in Slovenian health care, who has dedicated special resources and insists on systemic solutions for this purpose? Long waiting periods are a multi-layer problem. Statistics show that the level of unmet health services needs increased dramatically between 2007 and 2014, by 100 %. Unquestionably, restrictions on employment have also contributed negatively as a result of the Public Finance Balance Act adopted by the National Assembly in 2012. It is therefore necessary to say, as our President of the Government has often pointed out, that at the threshold of our mandate there has been a handful of waiting days, but it has begun to fall at least seven years before our term of office, and two years earlier it has become almost uncontrollable. In addition to the lack of funding for waiting periods, the lack of specialists in individual professions also affects the waiting periods. In such a difficult inherited situation, it is paradoxical that it is only within my mandate that we can really monitor the number of waiting and waiting periods, since it is only since 2015 that healthcare providers have reported registered patients on waiting lists. And that's why we're being intertwined. In order to better manage waiting periods and waiting lists, we are also implementing a pilot project that we started at the Ministry in 2015. The eTravel and eProcurement, which will fully replace paper in January 2017, will also make an important contribution to the management of waiting lists. Thus, we will have a central ordering system, which also allows for direct contact of the visiting doctor with doctors at the secondary level. We have provided €15.9 million by the end of 2016 for a special waiting period reduction programme. The performers themselves indicated how many interventions can be carried out according to their human resources capacity. We have chosen those operations and inspections that people are waiting for the longest, while waiting for them can significantly worsen the patient’s health or quality of life. We have earmarked €7.9 million for this, which in other words means 3,000 200 additional interventions. However, the remaining 8 million euros are available for all the first examinations of the specialist and the basic diagnostics needed to clarify the diagnosis, in the field of cardiology and neurology, for example ultrasound and burden testing. If the operators can manage all the first checks that are necessary, we will spend €8 million for this. For such an amount, about 60 thousand additional checks may be possible. Dear Members and Members! Is all this really a lack of action in the field of waiting days in Slovenian health care? On the contrary. And I believe that people still feel that way, understand and support us in our efforts. Fifth. Interpellation falsely accuses me of being responsible for the poor conduct of public health institutions and the role of political recruitment in public health institutions. Our health care is not bad, it is good because we have a well-developed network of health homes, because we also have pediatricians, gynaecologists, because we have a good system for monitoring pregnancy and childbirth, because we are among the countries with the lowest infant mortality and maternal mortality. We are also very quick to catch up with countries with the longest life expectancy at birth. So we have a good health system, which is confirmed by a number of studies and international institutions. We must acknowledge this and be proud of it because it is the result of the long-standing hard work of many of our excellent doctors and nurses, as well as of my predecessors in this difficult ministerial position. Therefore, I should like to clarify once again that the Treasury Office for Health Insurance of Slovenia must not show any excess of expenditure on income and should not be in debt under the Stability and Growth Pact, but it can, of course, lower the cost of health services. With the consent of the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia, the cash management has thus far saved by unselectively lowering the prices of health services and extending the deferral of payments to operators. Aware of the difficult situation in which the operators were at a secondary and tertiary level, we immediately launched measures to remedy the revenue side of public health institutions at the beginning of our term of office. Thus, we have already provided an additional EUR 9 million for the last quarter of 2014 for the implementation of health activities, at an annual level of EUR 30.3 million, in 2015 EUR 18.5 million and this year EUR 37 million. Six. The Signatories of Interpellation attribute to me the responsibility for non-action in the field of corruption in health care. Not only do I act, I fight corruption. As Minister, I strongly insist on the principle of zero tolerance for corruption, so we have put in place a system of reporting possible or actual conflicts of interest in the work of the Ministry and in working groups and commissions, in which external experts are also involved, particularly in the field of health, and the exclusion of all individuals from cooperation or decision-making. Even today, in this esteemed assembly, I call once again on all those who know about corruption cases to report them, as we say, as well as the law. Only with collective strength will we overcome the evil of corruption. Let me add that doctors are primarily responsible for the reputation of the medical profession, as well as their professional associations, which have the appropriate tools at their disposal, including the Code of Medical Deontology of Slovenia. In its 63rd Article, it expressly requires that the measures be taken against doctors who violate the provisions of the Code. In the seventh observation that laws arise on the basis of political priorities, it becomes most evident that we have very different concepts with the interpelling proponents. Slovenia decided politically in the elections that public health is a health care provider in the country. And people need to be assured by the government's political action that the money they pay for medical bills really gets the health care they need. Only you, the signatories of the interpolation, say that such political priorities are at the expense of patients and patients and employees in public health institutions. This may be where the fundamental conceptual contradiction of our views appears most of all, since it is mainly because of concessions between us. The Ministry of Health introduced the first draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Health as early as October 2015. This draft bill contained a system-wide regime for the granting of authorisations for the exercise of healthcare activities and the granting of medical concessions. The Slovenian Medical Chamber fully opposed the law at the stage of the public debate on the bill and, even after more coordination, it still rejects the proposal in its entirety. It directs its opposition to the proposed law of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia to the award of concessions or powers to carry out publicly funded health programmes to private health care providers. The proposal for a law sets out the priority of carrying out health activities as a public service within public health institutions, which are therefore also established. Transparent award of concessions in line with the public health service network and the needs of citizens is one of the conditions of public health. Concessions should be awarded through public invitations to tender for a certain period of time and under certain criteria. The sale of concessions is also problematic. Because it's unusual for someone to sell something that the state gave him for free. The last, eighth reading wants to attribute my actions and attitudes as a consequence of a lost confidence in the country's health institutions. Interpellators give me absolutely nothing wrapped up but very direct reading at least objectively, if not subjective responsibility for the death of a patient in the emergency centre of the General Hospital Nova Gorica and for the tragic killing of a doctor at the General Hospital Izola. I also sincerely regret the event today. So far, public reactions have, I hope, shown how negative the critical and thinking public has accepted attempts to raise political points at these tragic events. As Minister, I did everything I could to prevent that from happening again. Your Honor! A more detailed rejection of all those perceptions that I have run out of time here can be found in the reply on the websites of the National Assembly and our ministry. I believe I will be able to answer your specific questions during the debate. Finally, I would like to stress that our fair and solidarity public health system, updated and renovated, will be based on the universal basket of services and not on one basket for the rich and the other for the poor, which is a condition for equality in access to health services. Our renewed public health system will have to be sustainable in the long term, since as a nation, we are getting older at an average rate. This, however, brings greater needs, both by scale and by the complexity of health services. We will introduce part of the payment of healthcare workers according to the efficiency and quality of the work done and transform the supplementary insurance and replace it with fairer taxes. On these four points, the Slovenian public health system stands or falls. At these four points, I stand or fall. I will fight for them as long as I have an alliance of citizens and citizens for this, the trust of the President of the Government and the majority support of your well-respected assembly. And believe me, it's worth fighting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u6	Well, hello, everyone in this room! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, since the beginning of this mandate, we have been constantly reminding the Ministry of Health that there is a need to make systemic changes, to note the irregularities that are taking place in this area of course, to point out affairs and also to corruption. With this input, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the health situation is getting worse and we are not in any way reading to the Minister of Illegalness and the problems that have occurred in the past. With the intervention on the work of the Minister of Health in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to point out that the Minister has not yet joined in the preparation of key health legislation, in her responsibility to establish and operate a network of emergency centres, in her responsibility for the deteriorating financial situation in Slovenian health care, in her responsibility for non-action in the area of the extension of waiting periods in health care, in her responsibility for the poor functioning of public health institutions and in her role in the recruitment of public health institutions, in her responsibility for non-action in the field of health corruption, in the preparation of legislation on the basis of political priorities which result in the loss of confidence in health institutions. It is because of all of this that we have also convened in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate at least 15 extraordinary meetings of the Home Health Working Committee, and we have also drawn attention to the pressing issue here at the meetings of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, at these meetings, we could only warn and inform the general public about the issue, and we did not get support from the coalition and the Minister of Health, as if there were no health problems in this area. At all these meetings, we have pointed out that there is a need for health reform or fundamental changes in the field of health legislation, which is not and is not by the Ministry of Health. However, if a law or regulation is already missing the light of this world, it is prepared poorly, in secret, in narrow working groups and, of course, worst of all, without the cooperation of the profession. We have also repeatedly warned the Minister that there is an urgent need to approach the establishment of a public network at all levels in order to set standards for the payment of the basic scope of the work of doctors and their remuneration, to reshape public institutions in accordance with EU law, to set standards and standards for the payment of health programmes to operators, to enable competition, to give more powers to directors of public institutions and consequently to give more responsibility. The minister for all these well-intentioned proposals has no hearing, and as a result our health system is in a severe crisis, it is exhausting not to say starving. As a result, there are long waiting lines, public institutions are in red numbers, and corruption is a fact and a result of bad legislation. Our doctors and patients are going abroad, doctors are desperate, we have a statement from the FIDES syndicate, and family doctors joined them. However, our citizens can only pay contributions and supplementary health insurance, while their hope for a constitutional provision is that the country must ensure fair access to the health system for everyone of the same age has long died. The government states in its documents that the improvement of the health system is a key priority of this government. But look, the government and the ministry don't have the same priorities. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Health said on TV: "Our health system is universal, accessible, solidarity and fair and we must preserve it as it is." I think the Minister is responsible for such words. The Coalition has in its coalition contract the following Chapter of the Measures: "Exlimitation of public and private, establishment of criteria for the adoption of a network of public health activities at all levels, regulation of the award of concessions, promotion of the introduction of care and palliative care, new arrangements for the management, operation and supervision of public health institutions and the establishment of zero tolerance for health corruption." More than half the mandate is already behind us – and what is the purchase of the work of the Minister of Health? There are no measures, no legislative changes, the Ministry does not hold a dialogue with health institutions and trade unions. What will mark the work of the Minister of Health in this mandate will undoubtedly be the mandate without amending the legislation, the long waiting line, which increased by more than 30% during its term of office, the production of analyses and pilot projects, staff exchanges in principle, a politically appropriate candidate and cooperation with health institutions without dialogue. In its normative work, the 2015 Work Programme provided for the Ministry of Health to submit 10 documents and 10 laws to the Government in 2015. And what's the ransom? Three laws and a resolution. And for 2016? The Ministry is supposed to draw up seven laws. At the end of the year, and in the National Assembly we received only one marriage, it is called the Act on Pharmacy Activities, which did not receive support from the entire coalition. So plan 17 laws in these two years, implementation 4 laws. In doing so, let me remind or point out that more than half of the mandate is already behind us. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we ask why national reform programmes, normative work programmes, resolutions, pilot projects, analyses, if there are no and no effects. It is interesting that coalition parties with the work of the Minister of Health are dissatisfied, but you are still supporting and waiting for it, waiting as in the waiting line for the miraculous changes that are supposed to take place at the end of this year when the Minister finally presents the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. I ask you, dear colleagues here in the hall, which one of you believes this marriage will come to the National Assembly this year. At this point, the Minister of Health, I must say, is saving the profession. The profession in many areas goes to the top of the world. But I wonder how much longer. At the beginning of our responses to interpolation, the Minister of Health tells us that we used the proposal for this interpolation mainly on the basis of media contributions and the opinions of the management of medical organisations. Here I wonder what's at stake here. These are documents and statements and statements that the Minister has never denied. By interpelling the Minister of Health, we are by no means reading the mistakes behind us, once again, we are by no means reading the mistakes behind us, but we are reading the mistakes and mistakes in her mandate and the fact that the health situation is getting worse. In her reply to the interpolation, the Minister states that he does not claim that the resolution was first adopted, then an analysis of the health system – we all know what resolution and analysis this is – and that the Ministry presented the analysis to all stakeholders and decision makers, be careful, 8 January 2016 and the resolution was adopted by the National Assembly in March 2016. He's holding it all together. And on the basis of this analysis, for which the Ministry has paid more than EUR 360 000 to foreign institutions, a resolution on the national plan should be prepared. But, Your Honor Minister, read thoroughly our interpretation of this. We did not note that it was first adopted, I stress, the resolution on the national plan adopted, but that the resolution was sent to a public presentation in July 2015 and sent to the National Assembly in December 2015 and the analysis was submitted to the National Assembly in January 2016. Understand if you can. Therefore, on the basis of these facts, of course, we can claim that the analysis is prepared on the basis of a resolution and not the other way around, as you always say. So, with regard to this analysis, your claim, dear Minister, is not true again. You further point out that it is not clear that you have not prepared a law on pharmacy activities, a law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products, a law on health workers, a law on health activities, a law on patient rights, a law on health care and health insurance. The Government's normative work programme indicates when these laws are to be dealt with in the Government and adopted in the National Assembly. That's what we're reading. And, Your Honor, all hands are over. None of these laws, except the pharmacy law, which we know is what he was prepared for, has yet come to the National Assembly, let alone to be adopted. So your answer doesn't hold up again. At the beginning of last year, in the National Assembly, we dealt with an emergency medical regulation, and it is not true that we stated in our interpretation that this regulation was prepared with the help of non-professionals. Madam Secretary, that's a lie. We wrote in the interpellation that she was not a member of the profession. I hope you understand the difference between experts and experts. In particular, the rural profession has always warned that the regulation was being prepared in great secrecy, and the profession has also pointed to organisational and financial difficulties that we are not talking about the field of pediatrics, which is now subsequently included in the emergency centres. In doing so, I should also remind the Minister that she did not take into account the decision or recommendation of the National Assembly, which stipulated that the Minister must inform his mother's working body before publication of this Regulation in the Official Journal. No, nor did the Minister take this decision into account. The Regulation was published in October 2015 and sent to the National Assembly in November 2015. That's a month later. The Minister points out in her reply that in this case it would be an unacceptable intervention by the legislative branch of the Authority under the exclusive powers of the executive branch. However, this decision, here in the National Assembly, required only an introduction to the Home Working Committee, not to make any changes. The Minister states that she is not responsible because there is no paediatric involvement in the emergency centres. That's right. However, it was wrong to argue that it was only at field meetings in relation to paediatric emergency centres and that it had therefore set up a working group in March 2016 to make recommendations for the organisation of the work of paediatric emergency centres. Minister, that doesn't hold up again, and it's not true. This was already pointed out by you at our first regular meeting on the establishment of emergency centres, and this was in spring 2015. One year before you reacted. You state that you have successfully integrated paediatric emergency medical care into an existing emergency centre in Celje. Just on paper, I'd say that. What about the organization of work, the staff, the funding? Everything's still open here, and it's not a little bit of trouble, or I'm gonna say a lot of trouble. So this claim you made about the pediatric emergency centers doesn't apply either. The Minister will have to decide why and when they appear in view of the apparent long waiting periods. In its reply, it first states that they began to appear in 2007, of course in the time of the government of Janez Janš. However, the answer below is that they started to appear or increase in 2009. However, she did not forget to mention that the long waiting lines are due to the adoption of the Public Finance Balance Act, which was adopted by the government of Janez Janša, of course. But the essence of what we read to the Minister in the interpretation of the long waiting lines is that they increased by more than 30% during her term of office. It is apparent that the long waiting lines increased by more than 30 % during its term of office. I must say that I am afraid that the prices of these services will increase in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we constantly point out that there is a need to amend legislation in the sense that more powers should be given to directors of public health institutions and, on the other hand, to commit them to responsibility, to responsibility for the positive functioning of public institutions. But the Minister shall, in this mandate, adopt protocols on the selection of candidates for representatives of the founder in the councils of public institutions. Under this Protocol, as many as 88 members of the boards of public institutions have been released prematurely. In our view, it is because they were not politically appropriate, although, of course, the Minister denies this claim and in his reply to the interpretation, that the members of the Council, beware, are no longer political personnel but experts. And interestingly, these candidates must meet higher standards and the conditions required for the appointment of a Director of the Public Health Institute. Under these conditions, let me mention the knowledge of the business of the public institution, the work programme, the financial plans of the annual report, the financing, financial management, investment investments, etc. And among these experts, members of the boards of public institutions are also one that, on the subject of the safety of doctors and patients in hospitals, we are familiar with the examples, proposed a whole list of unwanted patients, is called the list as they have at various hotels. And these are supposed to be some experts, chosen on the basis of these protocols. But look, the Director of Public Health Services isn't covered by this protocol. They don't need that kind of knowledge. In view of some of our concerns that the current director of UKC Ljubljana has no experience in health, the Minister of Health for the media said: "But UKC Ljubljana has a professional and business director and a chief nurse." So the director can or doesn't have any skills at all. In her presentation to the director of Brežica Hospital, the current director also admitted that she lacked experience in health care or in managing a collective with more than 200 employees. And more and more of these cases. And the Minister, even your claim that it is no longer a political recruitment, is by no means sustainable. With regard to the co-responsibility of non-action in the field of corruption in health, several cases are reported to the Minister, including the fact that she should definitely act on the statement made by the former director of UKC Ljubljana Brigitte Čokl. At the Commission's own meeting to oversee public finances, I quote: "If influential individuals fail to reach their own, they also go to the President of the country." On this occasion, the Minister points out that, on this statement, the applicants themselves did not disclose the suspicion of a criminal offence to the competent authority, nor did they press charges. It is true that suspicions or signs of crime must be reported, and we agree. But we are Members here in the National Assembly primarily to warn, investigate and sanction the authorities responsible. We also held a debate on this issue here in the National Assembly, but our warnings or recommendations on systemic corruption in health care have been slightly rejected by this coalition. The Minister also strongly rejects our findings and believes that they are unrealistic because the few legislation that the Ministry has drawn up in this mandate has been prepared in secret and that no stakeholders have been involved. I would like to point out that these allegations that the Ministry is preparing its acts in secret are not our findings. These are the obvious professions and institutions that have been exposed to our meetings of the parent working body. Here, let me remind you of the preparation of an emergency medical regulation or a pilot project for paediatric emergency centres or a draft law on health care, so that I do not list anything else. With regard to cooperation with the other stakeholders, however, it could be said that if the Ministry somehow incorporates them into the drafting of legislation itself, it sets a very short deadline for them to respond or does not take them into account or, even more, does not lead the dialogue. An example of the novel Health Act is also a typical example of ad hoc partial solutions, which we note, which the Minister considers to be unfounded. That our claim is true shows the fact that this moment the draft Health Act has changed several times and that it is changing right now. You also deny our claim that you are not solving the problem at the primary level of healthcare. Slovenia is very fortunate to have good family doctors at the primary level. Once again, we have good doctors at the primary level. But with our perspective, we wanted to point out that we still do not have a public network at the primary level and also, as a result, not on the secondary. Although the Minister at the meetings of the Health Committee has repeatedly stressed that we have this network. No, we don't have that network. And once again, this network is gone. Here I recall the words of Mrs Sandra Tušar, Secretary of State at the meetings of the Health Committee in February 2016, quote: "We, within the working groups of the Ministry, in cooperation with external experts, are preparing this network, but the product is not such as to be discussed at this time." So the Minister doesn't hold this claim about the public network at the primary. You state that our claim that all members of the Medical Chamber are convinced that as a minister you have the least objective responsibility for a tragic case in the general hospital of Izola that this statement in the interpretation is manipulation. You continue to state that this has been discussed only by the narrow management of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. That's not true, Your Honor. On 22 September, the Assembly of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia was held. The congregation was consensual, and at that assembly it was also said that the Ministry did not hear the needs and problems of doctors to fear that doctors were losing not only the battle but also the war. They also expressed their view that they no longer had the hope that changes in the field of legislation, financing, organisation and standards would take place. Minister, you were at this assembly, and you are hoping to claim that this claim is manipulation. In conclusion, the Minister states that we have not presented a single argument in the entire text and states that we are personally discredited, that we are offensive, and above all we are closing our eyes to actual health care, beware of the good results of Slovenian health care. Whether we have presented the right arguments or whether we will debate them today and how good the results of Slovenian health care are should be judged by our citizens. In the end, I will stress once again what we always stress in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the health profession is good. Our doctors are good in many areas and belong to the world summit itself. However, the system is weak and urgent, very urgent, and there are legal changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u8	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, it is said to everyone, a nice greeting! Today’s interpretation is accompanied by a word about health care, which in one way or another deserves a broad discussion. There is almost a day when we do not read about the serious problems in Slovenian health care, the unacceptable long waiting periods, the threats of patients who are in distress, the crime, including the predicted medical statement. However, it would be unfair to blame the Minister of Health for the above. On the other hand, it does not mean that we are satisfied with the work of Minister Kolar Celarc in the DeSUS Group. After more than two years of mandate, at least clear positions, measures, including legislative proposals to improve the current situation, which are neither satisfied by patients nor by healthcare professionals, would be expected. Inadequate action and wrong choice of priorities, delaying the decision-making of the Minister of Health threatens exactly what he advocates most – public health. And that's less from day to day. If, on the one hand, we can boast of improving the situation in the economy, with economic growth, unfortunately, health care is not receiving such improvement. In the DeSUS Group, we were pleased to support the adoption of a new Resolution or Health Care Plan by 2025, prepared by the Minister of Health, as it also provides for effective, solidarity and quality health care in the future. The resolution adopted represents a goal that we all aspire to, but nothing is specified in how we will ensure the necessary public resources for this, how we will achieve this goal, and that is what we are really worried about. Without that, the resolution will remain only a list of promises and wishes. In order for the resolution to come to fruition, we need to adopt at least two basic health laws. This is the Health and Health Insurance Act and a completely new law on health care. Their adoption will undoubtedly require much more dialogue and cooperation both within political parties and among the professional and other interested public. At the same time, we see the Minister's recent negotiation and dialogue as a serious flaw in the preparation of key health changes. We are all putting health at the top of our priorities, so we expect a frank debate on all possible solutions provided by new health legislation. It is quite unacceptable that, for example, on such an important law as the Health and Health Insurance Act, which, according to the Minister's decision, is to see the light of the world and be prepared for public hearing in December of this year, we do not know any substantive solution. In this way, I fear that the problems we have had in adopting the pharmacy law can be repeated quickly. The Act on Pharmacy is a typical example of how legislation is not prepared or adopted. The claims for year-on-year coordination are misleading. The coordination was flawed and contrary to the agreement within the coalition, which the Minister knows very well. And the result is clear. An unfinished and legally flawed law that no one is satisfied with. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that public representation of opinions in this case is the right way and the possibility of reaching a law that will also provide accessible public pharmacy activities for all in the future. We also expect the Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc to make a clear statement on what we can really do today in the field of health as a country, what patients can expect from health today and what they can expect in 10 years' time. We believe that the issue of financing and providing public funds is one on which the Minister, as an experienced finance woman, is very well acquainted. It is therefore surprising to avoid answering this key question, which prevents the implementation of one important part of health reform and also the adoption of an important law on the long-term care of the elderly. Only by means of the Health and Health Insurance Act will it be clear whether in the future we will still be a country earmarking from the budget between EU countries at least health care resources, what will be the fate of supplementary insurance, what a basket of rights will we actually have in the future universal basket, who will be the payer, how much private health insurance is needed, and what will be the way to negotiate between partners. All of this represents the main reasons why we have placed the Minister of Health under the condition that the Health and Health Insurance Act be aligned with the Ministry of Finance and presented to the public at the beginning of December, as it has itself set itself a goal. This is therefore not an impossible requirement of the Desus Group. However, we want to prevent further delay and delay in answering the key questions in the distant future. Today's interpretations against Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, who enjoys the full support of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr. Mir Cerar in the Desus Group will not be supported. The Government's unwavering support on the one hand indicates the priority of this government and, on the other hand, the great commitment and responsibility of the Prime Minister himself in preparing the long-awaited and needed health reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you, President of the National Assembly for your word. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of State, Honourable Minister of Health, Colleagues and Colleagues! We advocate an effective, high-quality, responsive and sustainable healthcare system for all our citizens, based on solidarity, reciprocity and justice, a health system aimed at preventing and early detection of diseases and effective treatment. Such a health system is one of the foundations of the social state for us. Your Honor! Today you are interpreting the Minister of Health, who provides everything above. You're interpreting it because you're saying it's not working. It is unusual that so many non-conclusions, so many contradictions, so many independent studies that speak in favour of the opponents of these values, which are advocated by the Minister of Health. In the 1970s, Slovenians achieved that health care had become universal and accessible to all. In 1992, instead of budget funding, we moved to financing compulsory health insurance, which almost no health care covers fully, except for children, but for all of us our private payments are required. This change has undermined universality and has significantly reduced solidarity. Today we collect contributions from compulsory health insurance 68% of all money, 15% from supplementary health insurance and 13% directly from the pockets of individuals who need services. It is worrying that about 40,000 people are temporarily or permanently without compulsory health insurance for various reasons. Approximately 100,000 people do not have supplementary health insurance, which means that no basic health insurance health care is available to them without high pay. Some 170,000 inhabitants are of the lowest income, which means that the premium for supplementary health insurance is disproportionately high. This is not in line with the provisions of the Slovenian Constitution that fundamental rights and freedoms, including the right to health care, cannot and must not depend on material conditions, which is identical to the European principle of equality in health. From a country with universal health care and a high level of solidarity in providing healthcare, we have become one of the least solidarity in the European Union. In the last 20 years, the Slovenian healthcare system has experienced some aspects, both in financing and in organising health activities. On the funding side, we have a socially unfair supplementary health insurance, which, despite the general lack of funds for health care, brings easy profits; the latter has even increased through austerity measures at the most critical time. On the part of the organisation of health activities, we have allowed uncontrolled interference between public and private health activities, especially in the form of reckless award of concessions and the absence of effective control over the award of concessions. At the same time, it has been admitted that everything is too neglected to continue to develop the primary level of healthcare, which, despite all the problems, continues to produce solid results, which is likely due to an effective dissipation method for the treatment of the patient, which is still provided by healthcare homes to a greater or lesser extent. The proportion of public funds for health care has been steadily decreasing for a number of years. And the effects are here now. It is not negligible that the health department lost 400 million during the crisis. We cannot therefore be surprised that we are witnessing the erosion of the fundamental values of the public health system. 400 million! We're here today, and we're moving around, and we're surprised the health system isn't working. Unfortunately, no engine is working on the valves either. There are health issues, absolutely. Few doctors, too long a waiting line, corruption, pressure after commercialisation and privatisation are increasing, and these are increasing. But let us not forget, our fundamental task should be to maintain access to health services for all layers of people in our society, regardless of their material situation. But no. If we mention once the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, including a doctor who recently said that specializations were limited or were not replaced by doctors, this was expected to be done on its own. Really? All the problems have arisen before this Minister's term of office. Lack of staff, long-term waiting periods, privacy, including health errors, are the result of countering policies to solve problems and encouraging policies that have not planned appropriate measures to improve them before the crisis. At the time, it was the right time. The creation of profits that do not return to health care increases the costs of the healthcare system or, even more painfully, reduces health rights, since nowhere in the world has this proved appropriate for commercialisation or privatisation to constitute health care or to increase its quality. One of the worse anomalies that happens and gives silence to those responsible is the rejection of operations because the insurance company does not want to pay. The insurance company, I emphasize, not the Ministry. Perhaps these rejections are so common because we Slovenians are very solidarity, comrades. Every squeeze triggers a repulsion of good people who don't care. But – do we really want a system based on the right to health services based on the collection of stoppers, because insurance companies as in the current lane reject interventions and make them self-paid? Or can we really accept the fact that it is much cheaper to cut off a nine-year-old’s leg than to take advantage of all possible treatments both at home and abroad and save a leg? And we allow it. We allow our money to be put into their reserves, spent on their own needs. Our money. And then they want to sell us independent studies that favor private as dry gold. Did you know that one of such independent studies involves paying births? Are we really at a point where uncritical favoritism of the private, which, of course, nothing defends the public power supply, will bring our access to health services to the threshold of the impossible? Do we want this disaster? The Social Democrats firmly reject that. I hope to say that the private will no longer shorten the waiting types, will not be more accessible and will not be more effective. Probably the other way around. Privatisation of the health system and the equalisation of public and private lead to unequal and unequal treatment of patients. This means different quality according to patients, patients' social situation and unequal accessibility. Therefore, we argue that once again the share of private health care resources should be reduced, which gradually creates two health systems and separates citizens from two groups. To those who are allowed to buy the necessary services and to those who cannot do so, they do not come to them or wait for them for so long that it harms their health. Once again, all residents must be able to meet their needs for quality and timely health care independently of their material situation. This can be done by the public health system. It is necessary to reverse the trend that introduces the treatment of health services into the public health system as a marketable commodity that can or even is desirable to generate profits. In the public system and for public funds, the services required to maintain and restore health will only be provided in a non-profit manner, and the surpluses must be returned to the health system. The health system in Slovenia is urgently needed for renovations due to the accompanying demographic changes. The reform of health reform and the package of laws is crucial for the Social Democrats that the content clearly sets out the objectives of the law, among which the maintenance of public health must take the first place. We have insisted on social democrats and will insist that a clear gap between public and private health activities should be drawn, as money spilling and the enrichment of amphibians, i.e. so-called privates, must be stopped at the expense of public money. We oppose the privatisation and commercialisation of non-public health care, poor public health, irritability and threats to human health, reduce solidarity and the fairness of the health system, reduce access to health services, increase unfair differences in human health, create pressure on public health resources or reduce the rights of people and people from public resources, also adversely affect human health and reduce the efficiency of their use of resources for their treatment. Social Democrats understand the concept of reform as changes, which are a cross-section with some existing solutions and trends. We must be aware that maintaining the status quo is a danger of a breakdown of the public health system. Why, in our view, do we need changes? On the funding side, we have social and unfair supplementary health insurance, which, despite the general lack of health resources, brings easy profits. On the part of the organisation of health activities, we have allowed uncontrolled interference between public and private health activities, especially in the form of reckless award of concessions. Until health corruption, we must also establish zero tolerance by increasing control and transparency, both over procurement and recruitment procedures and in the area of licensing and awarding concessions. It should be noted that the advantages and disadvantages of concessions were written in 1993 when we have not yet had any experience with healthcare concessions. In practice, however, negative experiences have also been shown with regard to the granting and implementation of health concessions, such as the less accessibility of patients to certain services not provided by the concessionaire himself, and the shift of patients to self-payment or private activity. According to some studies, segmentation of the population appears in a way that particular to concessionaires on a secondary level is often gravitated by more material layers and socially weaker are diverted to public operators. Since the number of doctors is limited, it has also been shown that the granting of concessions does not mean a greater number of doctors and thus a greater number of programmes implemented, but in most cases simply a shift from public service employees to concessionary status. The key question that we need to ask ourselves when discussing changes to the Health Act is whether the award of concessions will ensure greater scope and better delivery of public health services. The area of healthcare concessions is currently poorly regulated, leading to various practices in the award of concessions by the municipality, the state. The current system also poses significant corruption risks, as there are no criteria for the award of concessions at any time and under what conditions. Therefore, concessions are often awarded on the basis of friendly and other connections rather than the actual needs of the health system. Even if we look at how many concessions a minister has granted, the numbers are fluctuating. The health needs, however, are much more stable or permanent. So far, we have allowed ourselves to be intertwined in public and private service delivery. The same operator works in a public and private system at different times, either at the same time and at the same place providing public and private services. The citizen may, however, move from the public to the private system and back. As a result, there is a lack of transparency in funding, which allows providers to double-charge services and offer unnecessary services, and on the patient side, it is unfortunate that the purchase also reduces waiting periods for a particular health service. Hospitals lost part of their staff by switching doctors to concessionaires, losing their staff, programs, and financial resources. But they have past obligations, technological surpluses. Some health homes are no longer able to perform all the functions provided for by law. The organisational implications are also reflected in the difficulties in providing a 24-hour service and in replacing it in the absence and in leaving activities related to teamwork, such as preventive activities. All of this, however, means reducing accessibility to health services and poorer quality of primary health care. Such a process has not only stopped in basic health care, but also started in hospitals where specialists receive concessions and leave departments. In response to the question of which are the main weaknesses of Slovenian health care, residents put waiting periods first. Some of the reasons lie in limited resources and human resources, but success shows that funding is not always the main factor. Better and fairer accessibility of Slovenia is also hampered by high fees and supplementary health insurance premiums and a geographically unequal basic health care network. The healthcare system is designed to maintain, improve and restore health. The public health system is still beyond this objective by providing health care and health care to everyone during illness and by providing health care and ensuring that they receive assistance if they need it. The public health system is the best example of the realization of the idea of social cohesion. Therefore, health services that are important for human health should not be marketable goods. This is the starting point of the social model of health care, which is advocated and defended by the Social Democrats. With equal access to health services for all they need, the constitutional right to social security must be exercised, which must be guaranteed to everyone without research in the light of personal circumstances, including material conditions. We reject initiatives to ensure that the public system provides basic health care to the less wealthy and disadvantaged segments of the population and that the parallel private system provides better opportunities for the more wealthy groups. Public health care must be universal and equally accessible when required. Sufficient funding for public health care should be provided. Our aim is to increase the level of financing of healthcare in the share of gross domestic product by meeting the objectives of better accessibility and quality of healthcare. The social partners need to redefine a basket of services that will be fully covered by public funds, contribution rates and budgetary resources. It is necessary to redefine the services in the basket that will cover the key health needs of the population. Access to health care needs to be improved. All the most important health services should be provided for the longest, even acceptable waiting period. Waiting days are a problem, that's a fact. We have over 250,000 waiting for one of the health services in the health service. Unfortunately, we do not know all the waiting times and the number of waiting for all the services, which is unfortunately an indicator of the system's failure. However, we are even more concerned if we know the process of treating the patient, as waiting periods and the number of waiting ones need to be summed up. Together, the theoretical patient can wait up to four years. As soon as possible a solution should be found for the employment of young doctors, because their education is too expensive to go to work abroad, so they should have the power to determine the type and number of specializations for the Ministry of Health and no longer the Medical Chamber. Over the past 15 years, every single government has set itself the goal of reforming health care. Reform means a conscious decision to change. Change, however, is an essential cause of conflict. The reform cannot be carried out in such a way that no one and no one can be disturbed. Individual groups of healthcare participants strongly support their acquired privileges, so the groups express the need for reform, but only until it reaches them. In the last 15 years, there has always been one of the groups that opposed the fundamental elements of the reform before anything happened in the direction of improvement and development of the health system. And this time it's no different. It is imperative to check the appropriateness of financing health services, to clearly distinguish and strengthen cooperation between the Ministry of Health and health treasury. Contributions to health care should be extended to all forms of work and certain things should be deleted from compulsory health insurance, such as scientific research and specialist education, which is an essential part of investment in health care, as this must be taken over by the state treasury. It is also necessary to strengthen internal and external health surveillance and to establish a mechanism to monitor health quality at national level. To regulate and develop the field of cross-border health care. Of course, all these health challenges are also recognized by the current government, which, like the previous governments, has set itself the objective of reforming the health system. Unfortunately, this time too, health reform is slowing down. The effective and flexible organisation of public health institutions, the incentive award after the achievements of employees, the professional and responsible management of health care with appropriate management tools and an adequate funding system based on the relevant health network and shared funding sources are key challenges for the reform of health care in the country. These challenges are essential for the real reduction of waiting types and thus the accessibility of health services to all residents and residents, who are, in addition to quality and safety, the main indicator of good health in the country. It is up to the government and the Ministry of Health to take a bite into the sour apple of the challenges as soon as possible and to speed up the preparation and enforcement of appropriate legislation to regulate the written health situation. All objections to all possible interests, in spite of them. Your Honor! The social democrats of this interpolation, who, once again, want to overthrow the private public, will not be supported. However, we expect that in the coming months, the ministry will face acute and chronic health problems not only from this mandate, but many of these problems have arisen in times of past governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we strive to enforce the maximum of each individual according to his or her abilities, each according to his or her needs. This means that everyone pays taxes and contributions according to their income, and everyone who needs help has to receive it under the same conditions, no matter how much they earn and where they come from. Our health system is moving away from the restoration of capitalism in Slovenia and thus from the real needs of our people. This is due to the commercialisation of health insurance and the privatisation of healthcare in the form of concessions or in the form of the earnings of some doctors. These phenomena did not grow by chance in our health system, but by conscious decisions of transition politicians to reduce capital taxation and high incomes. In this way, they intervened in public health care and opened up space for both commercial insurance and private operators. Privatization has made the most progress in dental care, so dental health shows us what health rights we will have or will not have if the private model extends to the entire health system. More than half of dentists work for concessionaires, and most people who can afford to do so use self - paying services because of unacceptable waiting periods. In the United Left, we will do everything we can to ensure that this model does not expand and that public interest, that is, the medical system that will be good for patients, health workers and, if I use some unfortunate Americanism, taxpayers. We therefore advocate the immediate abolition of supplementary health insurance and the mid-term abolition of concessions. We are in favour of banning the work of public doctors in private institutions and transferring the competence to democratic authorities for the planning of personnel in the healthcare system. Of all the so-called left governments in the last 10 years, the current government has made the most explicit commitment to implement the measures necessary to protect the interests of citizens and patients. Of all the ministers of health, Milojka Kolar Celarc is the one who has consistently advocated these measures. It is therefore important to ask why these measures remain unrealised after more than two years of the mandate of the Cerara Government. The facts are clear here. The weak article is not the Minister of Health, although she has made a number of serious mistakes herself, which I will then talk about below. The first obstacle is located in the modern center party itself and in the ministerial team. On the one hand, we have a health sector that seeks to restrict concessions and strengthen public health. On the other hand, we have a Minister of Infrastructure Gašperšič, who publicly advocates the privatisation of Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways and who will introduce concessions in one of the few areas where they are not yet, this is the port activity and the construction of public infrastructure. In complete contrast to the Government's declared health policy, the Minister for the Economy of Restoration is also working. An efficient example of public interest action is its efforts to liberalise oil derivatives prices, while all government analysts recognise that deregulation would undermine fuel for drivers and reduce budget revenues. The only entity to benefit from this is oligopolists and their large majority private owners. As an example of privatisation here, I can also mention the liberalisation of funeral and chimney services. But the situation is clear. The SMC ministerial team is dominated by people implementing the privatisation lobby policy and it is quite clear that they cannot be counted on in a project to abolish concessions and abolish commercial health insurance. When we judge the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health, we must be aware that many coalition politicians are actively or passively obstructing this work. And there's a lot of them. They're picked up like circles in Dante's hell. The first round is the neoliberals within the SMC, as already mentioned by Minister Restovalšek and Gasperšič. And the second round is coalition partners. Coalition partners, on the one hand, accuse the Minister of Health not to make legislative proposals, but in fact they block essential laws. Last October, the Ministry published a very solid amendment to the Health Act, which limits and partially eliminates medical concessions. It also severely limits the private work of doctors in the public sector. With this novel you step on the fingers of doctors of concessionaires and doctors of amphibians. Well, this law after a year of coordination has not yet come to a hearing in the government, it is clear that both SD and Desus do not want to take sides with these private interests. If SD and Desus were really going to do this, you've had plenty of chances. Borut Pahor led the government until 2011, and SD is also a member of the last two governments. As for Desus, however, it was in all governments after 2014, whether these governments of Janševa or not. Mr Gantar was even Janšev's Minister of Health. These so-called Left Government concessions have not been restricted either. More! The public doesn't even know it, but the Ministry of Labour, this social-democrat fevd is the largest concessional resource in the country. They outsourced everything from home for older and social protection services to active employment policy measures. They also provided outsourced personal assistance in such a way that users' companies have to pay them with membership fees and subsidies do not even cover the minimum wage of personal assistants. What I want to point out here is that it is crystal clear that ministers and parties who introduce and extend concessions in their areas will not support the limitation of concessions in another area, in our case in health. This brings us to the third round of those who block changes in public health. And as with Dante, this circle is the scariest because it has the greatest financial power behind it, and it can at the same time manipulate people's trust. In Slovenia we have witnessed an offensive by the management of the medical organisation and the FIDES union against the public health system over the last few years. Not only do these lobbies advocate private contractors and supplementary health insurance, but these lobbies require radical privatisation. From the same hell cycle are also candidates for today's interpretation – SDS and NSI. This circle requires that most basic health services can be provided by private individuals, without a concession. These services are called basket B. They also require that the insurance for basket B be compulsory and carried out by commercial insurance companies. Complementary health insurance, private insurance, which is made today in such a way that we cannot almost avoid it, this inefficient system and an unfair system would like to extend it to insurance, which would be absolutely compulsory. In the event of such a scenario, we would not simply talk about the fact that commercial insurance companies of around €460 million of the premiums retain up to €60 million, which would otherwise be in bloody need of health services, the figures would increase significantly. Then we would talk about some billions of euro premiums and 150 million funds that would not be earmarked for treatment. And we would talk about whether we should all pay the same premium for a personal doctor or dentist, whether we have the income of an average pensioner or any policy, director, supervisor of the New Ljubljana Bank and so on. And if we allow such a scenario, we'll get an Americanization of health care. When I say Americanization of health care, I hope we know what we're talking about. The United States of America is the economically most powerful country in history, having far-reaching spending on health care, but despite this, there are still 40 million people without adequate insurance. In the United States of America for health care they spend $9 000 500 per capita, in Slovenia this figure is a minority of over $2,000 per capita, and the life expectancy on the other hand is shorter than Slovenia if I am not even talking about indicators such as infant mortality, women's health and the like. The Socialists, of course, oppose the Americanisation of Slovenian health care. Speaking of the work of the Minister of Health, we note that her legislative proposals are blocked by interest associations. FIDES and the Medical Chamber have not prepared their own counter-reforms. It is written in the Faculty of Economics and is funded by insurance associations, the American Chamber of Commerce and the association of American pharmaceutical companies in Slovenia. We know that the adoption of tobacco legislation blocks tobacco multinationals and that they have a lot of sympathy at the Ministry of Finance. It would be difficult to find more apparent instances of lobbying to exercise private interest at the expense of public health. When we have cleared up these health parameters, I can give a concrete assessment of the work and responsibilities of Minister Kolar Celarc. Restrictions on concessions, termination of supplementary insurance, transfer of the powers of the Medical Chambers – all of these measures, which are necessary to solve the accumulated problems of the Slovenian healthcare system, are primarily hampered by part of the ministerial team SMC. That is why it can then happen that Minister Gasperšič has been intertwined because he introduces concessions, but today we have the interpretation of Minister Kolar Celarc because he wants to end these concessions. In addition, the coalition partners SD and Desus seem to be hampered by these measures. Neither SD nor Desus have ever opposed the public-private partnership for the second track. This is an official policy of the Government – at least since the first call for European funds in February 2015 – and therefore clearly impedes the restriction of doctoral concessions as provided for in the amendment to the Health Act. Some of the memories are only a month ago when SD and Desus voted in this Chamber for a minister who publicly advocates the privatisation of Luka Koper. Without a problem, they bought the promise of Minister Gasperšič to start construction in 2017, although this is science fiction in this form. And without difficulty, they bought a flossule on the cooperation of Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways on the project, although they should know best that this is only another expression for the privatisation of the Port of Koper and the Slovenian Railways offered by Mehdorn during the Pahor government. For SD and Desus, the public interest is the Spanish village, as is the health insurance lobby. Publicly in the language, private pockets in action. I apologize for extending the debate to other departments, but without this I do not think it is possible to assess the work of the Minister, because the obstacles to his work need to be addressed. And this third round of obstacles is, as I said before, a medical-insurance lobby. The management of the Medical Chamber is constantly clear to the Minister not to prepare reforms, but at the same time the Medical Chamber is the one who is suing our country before the European Commission for obstructing the private initiative of concessionaires. The Medical Chamber discusses the lack of physicians, but at the same time it is the Medical Chamber which describes specializations at all. And with this we can finally be in full assessment of the work and responsibility of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. Madam Minister, you have strong opponents against you in the government, in the coalition, in the medical and insurance lobby. But you can't say you didn't expect this opposition. You're not in politics for the first time, you've run a mutual insurance company. The main error you have made in your operation or stopping your operation is that you have not been associated with those organisations that have real political power and a real interest in eliminating supplementary insurance and concessions. And these are the big, advanced union headquarters. You may have overlooked that there is also this measure in the Social Agreement, and I will quote it as follows: 'changes in the collection of health care funds, by abolishing supplementary health insurance with appropriate replacement'. End of quote. However, you certainly could not ignore the public call of the Union of Trade Unions Pergamum and KS90 to include them in the preparation of the reform in the initial phase. Unfortunately, this call was ignored. Instead, you're aligning yourself with the medical-insurance lobby, but this, Madam Minister, is Sisyphus' work. You'll never get along with them. You can just let them go. In fact, there is no need to coordinate with advanced trade unions, but it is only necessary to agree on how to resist the pressure of the insurance-medical lobby, which will only grow. I don't know if it's too late at this point for this merger or not, but I do know that without any steps in this direction there will be no suspension of supplementary insurance or limitation of concessions. I am also convinced that you, Madam Minister, will not remain in the ministerial position for very long without allies. In the United Left we in principle support the direction of the Government and the Minister of Health for the benefit of the public health system. Our orientations are only more consistent, but real political power is on your side. Finally, however, we assess ministers by results, not only by their orientations or declared positions. You have unfortunately not achieved breakthroughs in the area of termination of supplementary insurance, limitation of concessions and competences of the Medical Chamber. According to our assessment, this is not so much a consequence of your work, but a consequence of the opposition both within your own client and coalition, and in particular the opposition of the medical and insurance lobby, which operates hand in hand with the right opposition. That's why we won't support the interpolation. At the same time, your current approach to this resistance will not defeat you, so we cannot support you at this point. However, I promise you that you will have the full support of the United Left for the defence of public health care, the limitation of pension concessions and the abolition of supplementary health insurance. This is where the socialists offer you a hand. Advanced unions, too. And I recommend you accept this hand. If you are serious about your policies, however, together we can push the medical and insurance lobby from our public health. As long as this does not happen in practice, we will be supported by socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Kordish. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u14	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister, President of the Government! The situation in the Slovenian healthcare system is worrying and extremely serious. For more than a decade, many problems have accumulated, and true solutions are certainly not on the horizon. Because it is not a solution, citizens lose patience and also trust. For they have been wronged, for they do not receive what they deserve for the money they pay for the medical bills. In the existing health system, no one feels well – neither users nor providers of health services. However, we have excellent and internationally recognized experts, doctors, excellent doctors, heart and self-sacrificing medical and other personnel, and we are sad to see an extremely poor system and a bad organization of this system. The purpose of New Slovenia is not to find the culprits that Slovenian health care is in so much trouble, such problems as we are witnessing. Also Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc, we repeat, is not the only one to blame that the Slovenian health system is in such poor condition today. However, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc is most responsible for not having made the necessary changes in the two years leading up to the Ministry of Health, which would constitute a better and financially sustainable health system. More! The situation in the Slovenian health system has deteriorated significantly over the past two years and there are increasing anomalies. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that the Minister of Health has not done enough in two years of her mandate, and her work so far does not offer good promises to bring about the necessary health reform or to modernise the health system, if you will, in the second half of the government of Dr. Mir Cerar. The government can afford that, we wonder. I'm sure you don't! Interpellation against the Minister of Health is therefore also an opportunity for the government to invite the person responsible for implementing reform legislation instead of the key person of Slovenian health. More than the government is slowing down with the preparation of the reform, the more Slovenian health care is sinking and more and more problems will be in our health system. There are also fewer opportunities to adopt reforms with this type of delay, as the effective time for the next elections to the National Assembly is only a good year and a half. From experience, however, we can know that the chances for serious and comprehensive reform in the electoral year are either extremely small or zero. The waiting species are getting longer. There has been dissatisfaction in health institutions, and untransparent funding has fuelled lobbying for decades, while at the same time there is a shortage of money for those who really need health services. Instead of taking systemic measures to resolve the difficulties of the insured, many of them are left with the good will of fellow citizens when collecting plastic stoppers becomes the only solution to the systemic health failure and consequently the survival of the patients, it is time to ask ourselves how the Slovenian health system goes. Although the Minister has lost the confidence of all stakeholders in health care, she still enjoys the full support of the President of the Government and the entire coalition, at least for today it shows, even though it is clear that without the support of all health care, such a demanding project as a health reform cannot be implemented by anyone. The coalition also reports that the health status quo is acceptable and that we cannot agree with it. This is not agreed by citizens who have been waiting for medical examination or intervention for years. Nor do employees in health institutions agree with this and neither does the profession. The reform of the health system is necessary, but it must take place in dialogue with all its stakeholders. Unfortunately, the Minister turned out to be a person who refuses the dialogue, because, on initiatives and proposals, not only the initiative of the opposition, but also of other professional associations, he responds either by silence or by flat-rate assessments or by politicisation of the applicants themselves. Such an attitude, ladies and gentlemen, cannot in any way be the basis for a qualitative reform that would put the patient and their needs at the forefront. It only means buying time at the expense of the patients. The first observation of New Slovenia to the Minister is the delay in health reform. See, health systems in Europe have been subject to a number of challenges in the last ten years or in the last few decades with a single objective, this is to ensure a financially sustainable system and, on the other hand, to preserve the rights acquired from the public treasury for citizens. In Slovenia, the health system is in a much worse position than elsewhere in Europe, as there have been no key changes for decades. In Europe, health systems in the form of comprehensive reforms are being upgraded every few years to meet the challenges of modern society. Slovenia, however, is far behind because of its failure to act, the consequences of which are felt most by the citizens, because every day it is a step away from the human health system. The main reasons for the poor situation in the Slovenian health system, which is not systematically addressed by the Ministry of Health under the direction of the Minister, are the very organisation of the health system and individual public health institutions, the lack of control of the resources used, the lack of a fully defined network of public health activities, the financial incoherence of the health system, the inadequacy of the rights of the public health department, the over-standardisation of the materials and services used in the treatment, the unclear distribution of the role of stakeholders in the insurance system by the PZZ, are not stakeholders in the negotiations and operators, etc. Contractors do not operate on the market because they compete with supply and quality, corruption and customerism, waiting types are not controlled and are only increasing in the last month following the emergence of the economic and financial moral crisis. We rightly acknowledge to the Minister of Health that it has not produced this key legislation to date, which would constitute a better health system for citizens and its long-term stability. We therefore need to modernise the health system, which would mean the financial and organisational consolidation of the health system, a reform that systematically eliminates the anomalies. The health system, in such a form as it is today, is not functioning and is becoming increasingly dangerous both for citizens and for healthcare professionals. Patients, I apologize, but patients are dying because they are not receiving timely medical examinations and interventions. In hospitals, people even die because of the wrong entanglements of the newly built E.R.s, and because of this, no one assumes any responsibility. Due to the lack of and damage to health and other equipment, we are talking about air conditioning, water supply and so on, operations and other interventions are dropped. We do not have the necessary medical equipment, and the resources and supplies are very uneconomic. Patients, let's take a look over the winter, are hospitalized right in the hallways of our hospitals. So we're light years away from the standard that people deserve. That the health system is in crisis and that immediate health reform is necessary, it also shows that for our children we are still collecting bottle stoppers and organizing charity concerts and events so that we can provide them with the necessary operations abroad and consequently the necessary treatment and as normal a life as possible. How many tons of stoppers, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Minister, how many tons of stoppers will we still have to collect, even though our children are all in health insurance? Unfortunately, within two years of her mandate, the Minister did not prepare the key legislation to remedy the above-mentioned anomalies. More. There are no draft laws in the public debate. Ladies and gentlemen! It's the wrong focus. The Minister of Health amends and upgrades legislation that is not at all essential for the stabilisation of the health system. Even former Minister Gantar said that the health situation was serious and that immediate reform would therefore be necessary mainly in the financing work. The Ministry of Health therefore decided to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the state of the Slovenian health system, and the conclusions were presented to the general public on 8 January this year. Since this event, when the Minister has also officially taken note of the results and has received answers to questions about what the Slovenian health system needs, it has been months now, and the legislative initiatives that follow the results of the analysis are not to be overlooked, despite expectations. It is worth noting, however, that the Ministry paid EUR 360 000 for this analysis. Let us also look at the table that is here before you and is also visible on television screens, what is the effectiveness of the Ministry of Health in adopting key legislation. To make it easier for you, Members and Members of Parliament and all the viewers accompanying today's session, we have presented the tables and graphs below which you can see on the screens. This table represents ten measures, ten laws of key legislation that should be adopted if we are to modernise the health system. Crosses mean that there is nothing prepared in individual treatment procedures. The top part, however, shows where the law in question is in the individual procedure. Throughout the whole procedure, a single law was passed. Therefore, the table shows that the key reform legislation is not even in the preparatory phase and is far from being adopted and implemented. Let's take a look at the pharmacy act that stopped at the last stage. They're all different, ladies and gentlemen, crosses. Can we change this in the next two years, in the next year and a half, until the elections? In addition, the Ministry of Health, through the legislative process, has only led to the final adoption of three laws, which do not have the character of reform laws. Well, let's do it in a row. The Act on the Acquisition and Transplantation of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment, adopted in this House 15. Seven. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Databases in the Field of Health Care, an extremely effective law, was passed 18. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, date of adoption 18. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition to these two laws, two other resolutions were followed, with very necessary resolutions. But that's all. Everything that isn't is on this screen. Further evidence is waiting periods. In accordance with applicable legislation and regulations, waiting periods shall be monitored on the basis of the law on patient rights, the Regulation on Longest Allowable waiting periods for individual health services and the manner in which waiting lists are maintained and the Regulation on Public Health Operations. In accordance with Article 5 of the Patient Rights Act, the patient has, inter alia, the following rights: the right to access to health care and to provide preventive services, the right to equal access and treatment in healthcare, the right to free choice of physician and health care provider, the right to adequate, quality and safe health care and the right to respect the patient’s time. Let us ask ourselves whether a Slovenian citizen has all these rights, whether he has them in accordance with the law. The waiting periods are undoubtedly due to lack of financial resources, poor organisation of work, inadequate and inconsistent management of waiting lists, which allows patients to be placed on more than one list, as well as inadequate and inadequate control over the management of waiting lists by the CFSP. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc said about measures to reduce the waiting years last month, in one of the statements: "Unfortunately, this system is not regulated and does not work as it is intended." And the secretary is right. However, it should be pointed out that the Minister also has all the powers to regulate the area, but the information you have on the screens now in the form of graphs shows quite different. The Minister performed this function on 18 September 2014. During the period, as can be seen from the graph, during the period of function and so far the number of waiting above the permissible waiting period almost doubled, which can also be seen on the chart. In September 2014, the total number of patients waiting over the acceptable waiting period was 23 000 823, representing 35% of all waiting, while the number of waiting in September 2016 increased significantly, effectively doubling to 44 000 135, representing as much as 65% of all waiting. This is this graph, expressed as a fraction. If we go further, if we look at 2016, only this year has the number of people waiting over the permissible waiting period from the beginning of the year to September, as shown in the chart, respected colleagues and colleagues, increased by 15,000, from 28 thousand 392 to 44 thousand 135. Let's just look at the last part of the movement of this graph and figure out that in the last month, when we're all talking about waiting types and times, how we're reducing them, the number of waiting patients has increased by 4,000, from August to September. But to make it easier for us to say that we do not follow these waiting lists back, these are official data from the National Institute for Public Health, that red line is the intersection, the performance of the function of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, and how the waiting years go down steeply, as the waiting number increases. Otherwise, measures to reduce waiting times are not significant. On 20 June, the Minister presented short-term measures to reduce waiting periods in 2016, for which EUR 7.9 million will be allocated and will cover a total payment of 3 000 491 interventions by the end of 2016. This chart shows that on 1 September 2016, 102 thousand 138 people were waiting together for 48 selected health services, of which 27 thousand 178 were over the allowed waiting period. The Ministry's actions thus mean only a small proportion of the reduction in waiting periods, as they represent only 3.43% of all waiting, while those waiting beyond the permissible waiting period are only a mere 13%. Of the total 48 health services, only 6, although it is necessary to provide funding for all those interventions where waiting periods exceed the permissible limit, such as foot-toe surgery, hip arthroplasty, surgery of the varicose veins, surgery and surgery in the mouth, throat and throat, and so on. The effectiveness of the measures shows this chart. What are the consequences of waiting times? The consequences are deterioration of health status and increased risk of permanent consequences and death of patients, unequal treatment of patients in access to health services, economic damage, million economic damage, safety risk for healthcare providers. In summary of the key findings, waiting periods have increased significantly during the course of the Minister of Health's duties, almost doubled. Measures presented by the Government in this area 20. 6. 2016 is insufficient, representing only a modest 3% reduction in waiting periods. The Minister or Government has not drawn up the relevant legislation or amended the rules on maximum permissible waiting periods for individual health services and ways of managing waiting lists, which is solely within the competence of the Government. If I move forward, lack of dialogue and broken relationships in our health system. Dialogue between stakeholders in the health system is crucial in the preparation of good and effective legislative solutions and the resolution of everyday problems. Unfortunately, there is no mutual dialogue today. We are witnessing a broken relationship and a constant accusation on one side and on the other. That the Minister is not ready to talk and that she does not agree to a dialogue, medical organisations also warn. The consequences of this kind of behavior when we witness public media accounts are the most felt, I apologize, but unfortunately the citizens feel the most. Attacks and arrogant treatment of the medical profession will not bring the desired effect, ladies and gentlemen, but only new tensions, which consequently mean an even worse and less effective health system. Medical organisations and other health stakeholders, after reporting to the media, have also repeatedly asked the Minister, have been invited to talks, but have also been rejected many times. Their proposals and initiatives have also been rejected by the Ministry of Health without serious justification. He's going, I'm sorry, for the unreasonable and uncompromising moves. But not just to medical attention. Such an attitude applies to political parties as well. As part of its proposal to modernise the health system on 3 March 2016, New Slovenia also invited the Minister of Health to discuss how to do as much good as possible for the Slovenian health system together this year. We sent a polite letter, but there was no conversation. Only answers who will be in the New Slovenia delegation. And that's what's left of it. We haven't even met today. I ask now, Minister, that we meet to take maybe two steps forward together for the sake of Slovenian health. However, since the Minister, the Ministry does not respond to accepted letters, questions and initiatives, this also violates Article 18, paragraph 1, of the Regulation on Administrative Operations. We do not want to be ugly and no one to report to the inspectorate, but let us just point out that this is not the way it works, it is true to reject this dialogue. In all this, the key question is whether, because of her relationship, the Minister can regain confidence in medical organisations and other stakeholders, whether constructive dialogue is possible after all discussions and exclusion. In a clear conflict with all stakeholders in the healthcare system, the normal process of preparation and adoption of the necessary health legislation is effectively impossible. Without partners and non-relationship, modernisation of the healthcare system is in fact impossible. The fourth observation of New Slovenia is the delay in preventing corruption and clienteleism in the health system. One of the problems with Slovenian health care is corruption, which is involved in its operation at different levels. The Minister of Health with Health Corruption in Health has not cut down in two years, as we can see through the means of public information. The Slovenian health system is receiving large sums of money, which we also pay through compulsory and additional insurance. So it's public money that we're paying our citizens and that money is disappearing somewhere. It goes into the private pockets of individuals. Lobbies prey, so people who want to make a lot of money in a quick way. In doing so, they take different paths. This is either a high commission on public procurement transactions obtained or an intentional exploitation of a poorly placed public procurement system. One of the more violent cases of health corruption is, for example, the purchase of vein support, which was supplied to hospitals by Mark Medical, d.o.o., for the price of a thousand 300 euros, while the same support costs 460 euros in Poland. This was also confirmed in 2013 when UKC Ljubljana imported vascular resistors at a price of €471 past the invitation to tender. For example, I would like to remind you of the recent involvement of the Minister, who also took place in the UKC Maribor. An invitation to tender for the supply of medicinal products and blood products was made. At lower prices, the company bought the medicines required from a competing company, and then the minister sent a letter to UKC Maribor expressly prohibiting the purchase of medicines elsewhere than at the Institute of Transfusion Medicine, despite the fact that this would amount to about a million euro higher price. That such a directive is contrary to our legislation has also been confirmed by two expert opinions that have found a violation of the Public Procurement Act. The Minister was informed of these opinions, but insisted in her position that medicines should be supplied to one and only or precisely specified provider. In New Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that systemic corruption in the health system has not been sufficiently pursued and, as a result, bad practices at various levels of our health system have become completely acceptable, normal, and so corruption has taken root in our health system. Various influential individuals and lobbyists regularly visit influential officials, directors and other influential individuals in health care and nothing happens. It is therefore necessary to change the way in which corruption is fought, as we have so far been very unsuccessful in its persecution. The fact is that the risk of corruption in health care also depends on whether someone has a service above, I stress whether someone over a service has a monopoly or not. Estimates of how much of the public money in the health system is caused by corruption are different; some doctors say that the numbers are around €500 million; others say that this number is excessive and say that corruption in health is up to €50 million per year. Although the official numbers are not many, respected ladies and gentlemen, every euro lost by the health system due to corruption is an injury to the state or to our common property. And from the Minister of Health, who is a member of the Government, who has come forward with his own opposition to corruption, announced the introduction of ethical action in politics and public administration, we would expect a clear and feasible plan to prosecute corruption in health without delay. In two years, we have not seen this happen, and almost everyone involved in the health system knows that the problem is not being discussed and that if it comes to it, the conversation is very inappropriate. However, the general public procurement, which is supposed to be a response to health corruption, does not show the real desired effects at this time. Slovenian taxpayers deserve a health system that will be fair and effective at the same time. Their money is for treatment, not for various lobbyists and influential individuals who see an opportunity in a large healthcare system, as I have already said, in quick profit. Furthermore, there is evidence of financial incontinence of the healthcare system. A key challenge in stabilizing the health system in the coming years will be how to provide sufficient funding to ensure that our health system is stable. The country's demographic challenges and economic situation require, above all, answers from the Minister, but not just promises. The analysis of the health system commissioned by the Ministry of Health has shown in reality that the question of how to finance our health system needs to be answered and that we need to set up models for paying the health system. The analysis we paid for, which we bet a lot on. This issue has not been raised by the Government so far, and the problem remains. Despite the guidelines received by the Minister in the analysis of the health system, the financing model of our healthcare system is not even presented in the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025. So there is no key answer, which is essentially an assumption, what we as a society can do, how much we can finance. If the money is not available or the state is unable to provide additional funds from the budget, then the Minister must present new solutions and new alternatives to realistic assumptions. But we, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be no mistake, the Minister is the only one to blame, co-responsible, that this health system is financially insurmountable. In particular, assistance, the contribution of the Finance Minister and also the President of the Government himself are expected in this part. But see, according to the 2015 Death Report, in the coming years, the number of working-age people is expected to decrease by about 10,000 on average each year. Even faster growth in the proportion of people over 65 years of age will be achieved in the period 2020-2030, which means that in 10 years, the proportion of pensioners will represent a much higher share of insured persons than now, which presents a long-term challenge to the sustainable financing of our health system. Postponing with an answer to what we can do, how we can finance it, delaying this response is extremely irresponsible and I would need this answer here today in my defense of interpolation. The sixth reading is a frame-up. On 6 January 2015, a Protocol was signed on the selection of candidates for the representative of the founder in the Councils of Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. In its mandate, on a proposal from the Minister, the government has resolved more than 90, I stress that more than 90 representatives of the founder's representatives to public health institutions. Although the Minister of Health has always said publicly that recruitment in public health institutions is professional, events at the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre show the real opposite. After the former director Simon Vrhunec left this place in October 2015, he was also named Andrej Baricič, with the support of the Minister and the entire government. We've heard a lot about him. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc said in a statement on 23 October 2015 that the Council of UKC Ljubljana, when appointed by Baricic, acted in a responsible and professional manner, predicting that the Government would propose an agreement on the appointment. In an interview with the STA on 30 December 2015, the panel was already reversed and, at the time of the resolution of Baričič, said that he had an inappropriate way of communicating and that he was also suspended for reasons of interest in the background. So Baricic changed interests in the background. But it was also problematic to appoint Mr Andraz Kopač recently, as media reports have also raised suspicions of illegality in this appointment. On 7 April, the Council of UKC Ljubljana voted on the future Director-General, with the support of the Minister, Mr Andraž Kopač was appointed to this post and has no managerial experience in health institutions. This has also been reported by the media. However, the rules on what candidate is suitable for a particular function have also changed. The situation at the Department of Health Insurance is also indicated by the fact that there is a strong scribble in the frame of reference. For more than a year, a year and a half, the Slovenian Health Insurance Service has not had a Director-General with a full mandate, but it does. But only for the show. The budget of the Health Insurance Office is EUR 1.3 billion. We pay money to citizens and citizens in this health treasury and we do not have a person with full powers there. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of the above and justified reasons, and also on the basis of the performance you could see through the screens, we will support the interpolation in Novi Slovenija. Why would we want to be relieved of the Minister? Not because we're looking for culprits for the health system. She's not the minister, I must say, the only one to blame. But because we want to end the waiting species, the end of corruption and customerism, because we want a transparent health system and because we want a truly and universally accessible public health care, which citizens unfortunately do not have today. According to the announcement, the Minister will be able to handle the interpellation with ease. But as of today, an even greater responsibility for the situation in Slovenian health care, as well as possible negative consequences of failure to act, is taken over by the entire coalition and even greater responsibility is assumed by the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gardener. The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u16	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, do you really believe everything you said this morning? Because if you believe everything that has been said, then it is clear that no change, no reform of any kind in the field of health, will be, because everything is in order. According to you, of course. However, the fact is that it does not actually take a week to talk about health problems in the National Assembly – from too long-term waiting lines to losses in public health institutions, to the very last meeting of the Committee on Health on the Budget, and before that, to the law on pharmaceuticals, and I can say that there has been complete chaos on that committee. So you haven't been missing any media attention yet, Your Honor. And today we will be discussing again the work of the Minister. Maybe it's better if I said what wasn't done. And given the agreement of the coalition and the words of the President of the Government, I quote: "The Minister enjoys the support of all three coalition parties because she is on the right track." Then there will be no complications, we will not be told the story of Minister Anya Kopač Dark. Today will be another day when we all talk again about problems and who is responsible for them, and the solution will not be on the table. It's a shame the coalition doesn't see that our health system is now really breathing on its gills, that there's no time for analysis, because all the problems are already on the table, that there's no time for experimenting, like you did with the pharmacy law. On the 8th of November, we have a text of doctors and dentists waiting for us. And you say you're going the right way. That's exactly what we should be worried about, is that when our health system is already on the infusion, you're saying the right way. This, the well-respected coalition, should worry you the most. Not to be aware of the problems and to close your eyes by preparing analyses so that you do not act, but you are constantly looking for the culprits who might have done more in the past. Yes, Your Honor, yes, Your Honor, we haven't done enough, we should have done more. And it's not this government, it's even less this minister's fault for all the health problems. Absolutely not. However, you are guilty and responsible that the situation in our health care has deteriorated greatly over the past two years. And that's what you're responsible for. And at this point, you are the only one who can or must act, and in two years nothing has happened. Public health, yes, absolutely the only possible and only right choice. We demand that our health care remain public. We also demand that it be accessible to all, but not only to those who pay 20,000 euros for the jump. A sick person is in great distress, willing to do everything possible to get to the doctor as soon as possible. It is unacceptable for the health system to allow this. Public health advocates are also us, only this public health care must be accessible to all under the same conditions. I'm not going to list all the problems you have today on the table again, but I'm going to point out four, according to my assessment, the biggest. First of all, waiting species. The fact is that waiting lines have been, are and always will be. Even in systems where you pay for health care, you have to wait for a week or two. Even a month or two would probably be a reasonable time for patients. But that you're waiting for some intervention for two years or that the child is waiting for an orthodontist checkup for five years and you're saying you're on the right track. [[…]] Not long before treatment or intervention with a doctor waits for 40,000 people. This is as big as the Novo Mesto municipality, in Novo Mesto municipality. For the show, colleagues and colleagues. The type of waiting would be long from Kranj to Ljubljana. Can you imagine that? If they stood with each other, they would come from Kranj to Ljubljana. You've extended your waiting periods by 30%. 30% in two years. I think you really need to be an expert to do something like this. And all these numbers are facts. He even painted them very figuratively in front of me. But the sad thing is, it's not just numbers, it's people. There's something else that actually makes me sad. Today, 2016 is more than 200 million in the healthcare system in 2013. 200 million! And not for a single euro, dear Minister, is it you who deserve it, but the people who pay the contributions. And with 200 million euros more, you will be able to extend the waiting lines by 30%. That's impossible! But obviously in Slovenia this is also possible. The second thing I want to point out is the loss of public health institutions. The losses of public health institutions are significantly higher this year than in previous years. Let's take a look at the specifics. Last year, at the end of the year, 8 public health institutions showed losses. This year at mid-29. Last year at the end of the year, 3 hospitals. This year at the middle of the year, 14 hospitals. Last year at the end of the year, the University Clinical Centre lost €8 million. The forecast for this year is €19 million in the loss of the University Clinical Centre. That's official information. The Ministry doesn't even think of such information. The Minister enjoys the support of all three coalition parties because she is on the right track. Staffing. More than ever within health care, you're only hiring according to the principle Good is only good if it's ours. Of course you have that right. The scissors and the canvas are in your hands. You only promised people how this government would make everything different. I will only mention the University Clinical Center, although these personnel across Slovenia are huge. Postponing responsibilities from the world of the institution to the government, from the government to the world of the institution. And finally, for our largest and most important health institution, you find a man without a day of medical experience. Without one day of work experience in the field of health. And this same gentleman at his first press conference says, "We will not provide services unless you pay." And then we listen to lectures on public health, how you fight to preserve public health and how you work for patients. Really? Only the University Clinical Centre, according to the new director, will stop performing the service. Fourth time. It's a drug law. If the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister represent the implementation of the reform by bringing an uncoordinated law into the National Assembly and then ultimatum whether you accept it or not, then there will be no reform. The law is unconstitutional, as stated in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. On the 25th page, the comments of this same Legislative and Legal Service are not from the professional public who would support the law. You support monopolies or give them an even better position on the market. You limit the municipalities when they can set up a pharmacy and at the same time say that access to medicines will be better. Let him understand who can. One bright point in all this confusion doesn't matter. This is more money for health care in the state budget. We are talking about €94 million in particular for investments that are certainly necessary. That is why, Minister, on my part, congratulations once again on your ability within the government to convince colleagues and the President of the need for additional money for health investments. However, this will be too little to solve the problems. There's obviously no awareness in the coalition that the health situation is alarming, and that's all the more worrying. No interpolation will solve the problems, nor will 15 hours of debate solve the problems. Only knowing the coalition that the situation is alarming, and acting as a minister can change things for the better. In view of the coalition support, dear Minister, today will be a beautiful autumn day for you, which will probably pass in a slightly less pleasant society, but also tomorrow you will be a minister, and tomorrow will also be problems on the table. It's not about us, it's not about you, it's about the patients. That is why I wish you the best possible hand in finding solutions, and I want you to have your hand in finding solutions as soon as possible, and I want them on our tables as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Bratusek. We have the last position – the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, for her Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! For a long time, this presentation of the views of the groups of Members has been taking place, in the beginning also by presenting the position of the interpelling proponents and the first in some way of defending the Minister. I've been trying to find red, not even what we've heard so far. Somehow it is about whether we need public health, what public health we need, what the role of the country should be and what the role of policy should be in what kind of problem is actually. We have heard a lot about past problems, mainly related to the functioning of the health system. But I would turn the matter around a little differently, and I would ask myself why we need health care today and what kind of health care we need. Where are those problems in everyday life that, as a rule, in democracy, we have a policy and a responsible country to help them solve them in a somehow targeted way? In the area of health, we seem to have two major problems with us, not just with us. The first problem is population ageing. This is a fact that is not unique to Slovenia alone, but it is particularly characteristic of our country. The relationship between generations is clearly changing with us. The proportion of the older population is higher from year to year. Let me just illustrate this with the specific statistics of our statistical office. The life expectancy for us in Slovenia has increased over the last 25 years, by 8 and a half years, if 1991 was 69 and a half years old, in 2014 78 years. In women, this expected life expectancy increased by 6 years and 3 months in 25 years, from 77.4 years in 1991 to 83 years in 7 months in 2014. Last year, 1 out of every 5 inhabitants of our country was over 65. Those who celebrated or are older than Abraham are more than half our population. And this is one of the first facts and situation in this society, which says that there is a need for careful and responsible permanent health care and for the protection of those who must be in the hands of every responsible country. In Slovenia, 5 000 760 doctors, 5,000 135 nurses were caring for patients in 2014, compared with previous years, this percentage of employees is slightly higher than what is generally said in the public eye. It is very interesting and at the same time alarming that more than 17 million prescriptions were issued in 2014. In other words, more than 8 recipes per capita were issued in one year. Second segment. The nature of the condition changes. We get the characteristics of the so-called modern way of life, the disease, the disease conditions, which are not normally treated and also treated in a classical way, but they are the conditions that last, and they are conditions that go far beyond just and only the population that I have just talked about. I am talking about that at this rate of life we are in some way confronted with a number of disease situations in virtually all generations of our population. For example, more than 40% of the deaths occurred during this period that we are now living, the cause of occurring diseases. The death rate associated with a heart attack, the stroke, is extremely high. Throughout time, temporary absence from work is growing markedly due to mental and behavioural disorders, the disease conditions of modern society, which are a much more frequent reason for absence from work than, for example, absence from pregnancy, childbirth and postpartum periods. Not only the elderly, but also the youngest and all other generations of the sick have growing needs and expectations for a quality, responsible health system, health care, protection, after quality long-term care, so that medicines and other medical services are available to all. All of these groups, so all of us today represent the majority of the population that needs permanent, careful and responsible health care. What is the role of the Slovenian health system in this? We've heard a lot about everything going wrong today. If you look at statistics, so objective facts, and even put them in an international perspective, you can see that despite everything, everything is not as terrible as they say. I am talking about the data of the World Health Organisation, which is the central international health institution. This says that data on the health system in the Republic of Slovenia are good compared to neighbouring countries, that in most cases they are even better than our neighbouring countries. This is particularly interesting, for example, for the neighbouring country of Austria, to which we like to compare and set an example. According to the World Health Organisation, the Slovenian health system, despite all the anomalies that we have heard about today, is much better. At the same time, it is true that there is a need for change. That there's a need for adjustment. On the one hand, adaptation to the demographic situation, the demographic needs that I have already discussed, and on the other hand adaptations that are completely normal because life is going on because there are changes, there are changes in habits, and they can generally have a very direct impact on the health and well-being of people. And the changes are good. Positive changes are the only acceptable way for us, for the Modern Centre Party. To conclude with this international work, let me say that the international public, of course the expert, also reminds us of these needs for change. This is also very clearly indicated by studies and OECD assessments that tell us that our health system, in the way it was exposed, has been exposed to the heart, but has been exposed in the golden time of socialism and has in fact not changed significantly to date that this system is no longer sustainable. To call for changes in virtually all areas, from health services to financing and health insurance systems, because these systems, which have been established and are still in place today, in the form they are, are obsolete because their lives are simply overgrown by their needs. The second segment, which we must also draw attention to and is no longer as positive and as bright as the information I have just discussed, is the fact that we cooked it in a way, by adapting the implementation of the health system in our country itself. Over the past 15 years, the sick have gradually but noticeably violated their rights. More and more medicines have been on the payroll, many more insurance rights need to be paid, waiting periods have increased. Our commitment, our responsibility, is to settle all of this. To restore fundamental rights to restore fundamental justice and equality in the exercise and exercise of these rights, irrespective of property status, regardless of relationships and acquaintances. It is the responsibility of public health to exercise, guarantee and defend fundamental rights. Fundamental rights for patients who are ill, patients who belong to you. We are aware that the path to or return to such a health system will not be easy and will not be without obstacles. Also because it has been wrongly pressured in important key periods in the past. It is also the fact that the changes are in view, the changes in this direction I am talking about. The changes began at the time of the Government's mandate under the leadership of the Minister of Health with the introduction of eHealth, eRecept, the realization of new emergency centres, with additional funding provided by it, this also applies in particular to the reduction of waiting periods by the introduction of a waiting period register, with the preparation of fundamental systemic legal changes. Under the auspices of the Ministry of Health, a whole new law on long-term care is being prepared intensively, with which we have also been late for almost a decade compared to other countries. A number of pilot projects are being implemented. These are all amendments under which it is signed and supported by the Task Force of the Modern Centre Party. Changes with only one objective: the return and preservation of public health, equally accessible to all citizens and citizens. In some areas, the Government's established health policy has proved to be correct. In many areas, small changes have proved necessary for major achievements. At the same time, the biggest injury to this health system has been reopened, which is often surrounded by a very unjustifiable general assessment of the overall state of public health. These are those who were able to benefit from the existing state of the public health system. Those who used it and abused it only for their own good or in their own pocket. These shall be disclosed and duly sanctioned by the responsible authorities. It is our primary task to look for and find solutions for healthy public health, which we all need, both patients and employees in health and pharmacy activities, through joint political cooperation. The last one is forgotten too often. He forgets unjustifiablely, irresponsibly. Without them, this health system is gone. For all these reasons, we will use today's Interpellationary Meeting against the Minister of Health, not as usual, as a political occasion between political parties, but as an opportunity to inform our people, especially the sick, professional, conscientious, dedicated health and pharmaceutical personnel, that the only way to respond to the conditions described is to care for fair, equal, quality public health. The health policy under which the Modern Centre Party is signed is very simple and very clear: healthy citizens are our responsibility, you are a public interest that can, to the same extent, allow and offer only quality effective and modern public health. In healthy society, people are more easily created, regardless of our age, sex, education. However, it is the duty of the Modern Centre Party to defend your rights at today's interpolation session. The rights of the sick, the rights of employees who have also been unjustifiably deprived of their rights because of the abuses, manipulations, resorts, unknown, irresponsible conduct of certain medical, manufacturing and commercial elites. No interpolation, no sentence, no work block is a solution, the solution can only be to find the best possible policies and solutions for the sick and the health care of the people needed. This is what is considered a modern center party. And the only thing that counts. That is why today our voices of support to Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc mean support for quality health care, care for patients, health and medical staff – support for the future of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs. Custec Lipitzer. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Mrs Jelka Godec, representative of the proposers, made a statement. Mrs. Godec, please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Just as the head of the SMC Group asked himself at the outset what the red thread of today's session is, I also wonder after its implementation what the red thread of today's debate is. What you said was, "We defend the rights of employees, patients, we defend public health." That's what the voters would believe right before the elections. But then you couldn't say it because you didn't even have a program to go to health care for the election. And today to say it in the National Assembly, it's, I'll say, more than funny. All the debaters, except I think that from the DeSUS Group, have focused on one matter in their opinions, I apologize, in their views we are defending public health from the ugly private and from the ugly lobby and from the SDS, who is the proponent of the interpretation. [[…]] Today it is not the subject of this public health care: private health because I think that everyone here in this national council defends public health, but is the essence of the intervention of the Minister of Health. Nobody talks about quitting public health, completely privatizing, and I don't know what. With regard to the Minister's interpretation today, some of you have behaved as if there was a presentation of opinions: public health – yes or no, 95%, 5% of you were talking about interpretation, everything else today is fog mixing. Today, the Minister's interpellation is at the table and what the Minister did or did not do. And once again, because you obviously haven't read the interpretation or you don't think it makes sense, I ask you: what are the positive changes during the Minister's 2.5-year term and what has the Minister done? The government's standard plan for 2016, I can start reading your dates and tell me if then I am wrong or if you have a regulatory plan mispublished or who is wrong. Limitation of consumption of tobacco and related products, deadline for adoption 5. 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Pharmacy Act, deadline 1. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Health Workers Act, deadline 1. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Health database law, deadline 15. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Health Activity Act 19. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Law on Patient Rights 20. 2. 2017, otherwise, the Minister now promises that we will have what we already have in December, but we do not yet have these, and we do not have the most important law, the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is foreseen somewhere until 5. 3. 2017 and the end of the year would be in public debate. In a public debate, as I have been listening to today, there is not even a coordinated issue in the coalition, except in the medical circles or in these organisations and you are speaking today what you will do. I'm asking you what you did and why you didn't do it until today. As we look at the Government's legislative plan from 2014 to 2016, the deadlines are extended from year to year. And now, because the pressure of the public, after all, is so great in the National Assembly, all these laws, which you call system laws, will be regulated within three months. Then it will happen as it did with the pharmacy law. The pharmacy law came to the National Assembly, as the champion of Desus said, which I must deeply agree with as a crumb. Complete confusion, 65% rejected articles by the ZPS, more than the members of the law, and the Minister insists stubbornly that she has aligned this with the coalition and all other healthcare stakeholders she now calls a lobby. And she says that she will stand before us because she was elected by a public health mandate - Madam Minister, you were not elected, you were appointed and then confirmed - and because we coalitionly committed ourselves to strengthening public health and with all our heart and soul believe in it and so on. Yeah, I don't think any of us are talking about secret health care. But speaking of concessions, that doesn't mean we're talking about private health. Concessions are part of public health and strengthening public health is also strengthening concessions. However, if anyone does not agree that concessions have been granted, which is of course not right, that concessions have been granted in the past beyond the law, which accurately tells how the concession must be awarded, untransparent, past the rules, once again, as has been said in one of the meetings, who has granted it, to whom these concessions have been granted, and why this has not yet been declared to the competent authorities. Minister, I'm asking you here. If you know of such cases, I would like to know how many of these cases you have reported, whether you have conducted an analysis of the concessions granted in the way you speak. Analysing concessions I want to know : how many concessionaires in Slovenia are, how many concessions have been granted past the rules, past the laws and how many applications have you submitted to law enforcement authorities? It's easy to speak, because then you throw in the same basket all the concessionists who fought for concessions that got concessions in a legal way that work today well. And some patients don't even know if we know we're going to the concessionaire. We get there, you don't know he's a concessionaire because he treats you the same way. But if I'm going to a private place, I know right away because I have to open my wallet. When I go to the clean house. When I go to the concessionaire, that's not necessary. And stop deceiving people to defend public health by demolishing or abolishing concessions. These aren't privates. The transition from public to concession is not a transition from public to private. This is within the public system or public health. Stop doing things like this. Harm those concessionaires who are doing well, who have bought equipment with their money, invested in this equipment, and today in some areas of health are saving waiting types. And once again, Minister, the question is, how many of these concessions have been awarded, literally given, if you want, and how many have you reported to the law enforcement authorities? So that those who have thus acquired matters are likely to be sanctioned by associations and acquaintances as well. But not because of those who do well, who try to save the end of our waiting species and so on, patients, you throw in the same basket. That's what this is about. That we are in a political temple and that politics in its multitude is always a valid reason for debate, but if there are partial and partial interests behind the political instrument, not serious policies, then of course this is not a credible matter in the National Assembly. Madam Minister, I ask you what partisan interests you accuse us of in the context of interpolation. I just understand that some lobbyists are behind us. I must say, Mr. Eartherich is not my option. But if you think of anyone else, then tell me. I want to know which lobbying is behind our interpellation that this has occurred. In interpolation, we're reading you a crime, a non-admission of system laws, which is not just for us to tell you. They also tell you in coalition parties. Then how do you respond to those eyewitnesses? Is there a lobby behind them? Today it has been said that you have not done enough and so on. What lobby? I'd like to know which lobby stands for our interpretation. You've all been involved in public health care to defend public health, but at the same time you're actually criticizing in your performances how our public health service is on an infusion, how it doesn't work, how it doesn't work. But no, we're gonna defend this status quo issue. The minister doesn't do anything, public health is on the dog, but we're going to defend this because obviously, I don't know, who wants to privatize it. Nobody's talking about it today. Once again, Minister, the question for you is: what have you done so far in the field of legislation? If you are, which one? And why or how you didn't. As far as corruption is concerned, how much you've done in the area of corruption. Tell me the measures you've initiated to prevent corruption in health care. What have you done for those doctors who report corruption that they will not then be degraded, as was the case at the neurological clinic, as was the case in the field of vein support and so on? Or is the applicant so protected that when he says that corruption has occurred to protect him, not to degrade him in the workplace. Dr Robid spoke about the culture of fear that no one hopes to report anything because he fears essentially sanctions without sanctioning others. You also did not want to accept the recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party that as a minister you should call on the competent authorities to speed up matters in the area of detection of corruption or sanctioning the already known cases that you are telling us that we have not reported them. These are the venous cords, these are the operating tables, and so on, what's said. These are already known facts, it's already in the law enforcement system, which, for example, for vascular resistors, because I have this investigator, they haven't done anything in three years. And today they're obstructing the investigative commission because they don't give documents. I ask you: what have you done in this area? How did you react in the case of the Oncology Institute? Yeah, I'm glad we're all happy. But you, as the Ministry, did you do anything to curb this corruption? I don't think you're gonna make it. Is it true that your co-worker was involved in one of such matters concerning the granting of specialisations and was then withdrawn from the working group where she was awarded specialisations because she was in conflict of interest? Is that true, or did you report this to the Commission to prevent corruption? Today we have also heard that everything in public health is suffering from concessions. I have to go back to this again and say that I think you're using the word public health care, so you're doing your job here today in front of the citizens. The same goes for the coalition that supports you. In fact, I do not understand the coalition parties, Desus and SD, who were very critical today in their views, but will eventually reject the proposal for interpretation. The fact that the Medical Chamber doesn't work with you, it's up to you to make a deal with them. You have to deal with them and then coordinate. You said in September 2014 that you will work with negotiation, consensus and so on. This is your problem, we have nothing to do with it. But it's interesting that no one works with you. Then that's another question. That the public is uncritical, I cannot say that, because today we see in the public and the media that people are very critical, they are very critical of our health. True, they may go to extremes at times, but they are critical people. And the public health care that citizens today have, as the Prime Minister says, is that you provide such public health, the health system that citizens deserve. Not like that. This is not what citizens of the Republic of Slovenia deserve. They deserve a lot more. And you probably know that. So I'm asking you why these changes don't happen, which lobby is behind you so it doesn't happen. If there is a problem with the Medical Chamber, you will understand, for in the answer you always say that medical organizations constantly oppose you. Have you taken a step toward them? Or did you say, as one of the committees said, that we should all step back and talk? I think that some Members of the House of Medicine last time, where all the delegates were more than 70, supported this declaration of the Medical Chamber. So something is wrong if all delegates support the matter and make it clear that this is no longer the case. Then you can't say that it's just the leadership, as you write in your answer, that's why. And I'm not defending either, but I was there, and I saw 70 delegates backing the declaration. And they told you clearly and loudly there that they can no longer have standards. And what have you accomplished? You've achieved that on November 8th, there will be a statement of doctors. If we have a variety of public health care today, so that the rich and the poor can afford it differently. And you're defending it. You say it's okay, coalition parties say it's okay. You're already saying that there are differences between rich and poor. You say it's okay, we support it because the Minister is going in the right direction. And then it's said, yes, some go to private people, others just have to go to public health. This was now humiliating, however, as if those in public health were not well or in health homes. We have heard such contradictory things within the presentation of positions. And once again, the matter is ridiculous by two coalition parties. Resolution. Okay, the resolution has been supported by all Members, I have already said not how many times to start action to start work. But where is the action plan, where do we know how much money is needed for this resolution? These resolutions are paper, well, just on paper. Finally, this resolution is only the basis for you to report some projects that certain funds, Norwegian and so on can be implemented. That's what the resolution is for. But the resolution should be an obligation for the Ministry to make an action plan after this resolution, to make a financial structure and so on. That's not in the resolution! In the next resolutions, I will not vote for them at all, or I will oppose them if they do not have a financial and action plan, which is then an obligation. There are no standards in the resolution either, there is no network. We still don't have a public network. When are you gonna make this happen? When you have this, it will probably be easier for specializations to do all the other things. You're the one who did things on the tail. And now with tobacco law, with this tobacco cent, which is a new tax — let all people hear it — it's a new tax — save the waiting days. For waiting periods, as far as the insurance companies are concerned, 120 million, somewhere you say 200 million is supposed to come from the tobacco market. It won't solve anything, because you said it yourself. Money doesn't save everything. If you don't save the system in its entirety, the money you're going to be spilling, the pardon you're going to give in the waiting period, it's not going to solve it. About 7.9 million would be given now, and you think we're going to solve things. I think it's hard for you to believe that this can be solved. In Desus' position, I've heard that their views are clear that you have the wrong priorities to endanger public health. I think that tells you enough. Here the opposition has almost nothing to add that there has been no coordination, that there are unfinished laws and so on. Minister, how do you defend yourself against these statements by the parliamentary group or your coalition parties? One of the performances also said that we are least solidarity and that there are only least solidarity health systems and so on, but coalition parties are defending it again. They see how everything is wrong, how we are at least solidarity, how we do not have good public health, but they are defending a minister who has not done anything in two and a half years; now I hope to say nothing after that answer you sent us. Praise yourselves, as I said at the outset, with matters that are normal for your department, and with sub-laws, with resolutions that must be adopted anyway, because they are also commitments to the European Union and I do not know what. Then also this excuse that all problems are old and that you are solving the problems of previous governments. I would like to hear, and it will probably be later, because we also have former ministers, former heads of government, how they perceive it, so that they are all guilty, that you are the victim of this system and that you cannot do anything as a victim of this system because the lobbies are impeding you, and some -- I ask you once again, what lobbies are -- that public health has brought you to the brink, to the edge of the infusion, and everything is still being protected. The law says if I go back to concessions, that public institutions or, yes, public institutions and concessionaires work equally. Today, too, the law says, and you say that it must not be, that is not the case, it must be – you favor public institutions. But concessionaires are part of a public network! Once again, what is the proposal for a new Health Action Act in this area, how long will concessions – 15 years, several years, be less? Will you take into account what is stated in the law that investment in equipment and so on should be taken into account? Today, too, is your opportunity to answer that question. But once again, the interpolation is because of what you haven't done and the implementation of parliamentary groups or especially your party is, I mean, everything else is wrong, only at home is nothing wrong. [[…]] The neighbors are blaming us for fighting at home, and the neighbors are guilty that the minister didn't do anything. No, ask yourself what you are and why you're not. With the United Left, it was almost in terms of, let's close borders, import no drugs, all of them are ugly capitalists, I don't know why we don't really have Chinese and Venezuelan drugs, and let's not let any Western world in, let's close all the borders, and that's it. And we're going inside to preserve this public health care, once again, which is on the infusion today. The Medical Board is suing the state. I don't think it was, but I'm not going to read here now, but as far as I'm aware, it was because of the European Union directive that they were in line; and the pharmacy law was the same. The minister comes from the insurance lobby, if you like, the minister was at the Mutual. Then she knows these lobbies, the medical and insurance companies, which, according to a colleague from the United Left, are hampering the implementation of the reform itself by saying in September 2014 that she is not afraid of having any problems and that she will carry out the reform immediately because that is what citizens need. Today we know: waiting periods too long, tragic events are happening, bribery is happening and so on, it is happening, say, in the Emergency Centre of Nova Gorica death due to a misappropriation – and what does the Minister declare? "I'm glad no one from the Ministry was reported or investigated." So you were expecting an investigation, and now you're glad no one at the Ministry is to blame. For now. But the emergency centres, this matter was carried out by the Ministry of Health, delivered by the Ministry of Health; painting was fine, painting was O.K., but the responsibility for what happened there – we will not take it. But you've been making a technical report, and now you're glad no one from the Ministry has been reported or investigated. Do you not feel any objective or any responsibility for these matters that you have actually handed over to the emergency centres? You say that the emergency centres — in response — say that you have taken over things on a fragmented basis, that the foundation was not right. The foundations were emergency centers, for example, with which you boast today and say that they were broken foundations. Now you decide whether these foundations were broken or they were fine, because you say that this is a matter that you did. Yeah, you didn't! 2006 has started, 2009 has been registered with the European Development Fund or for this money. And if you've taken over these emergency centers, this project, you should be looking into it. You probably did. And don't say that you do – I think March 2016 – you didn't know that pediatrics aren't in there and that you acted immediately or that you acted in March 2016 because you found out a little earlier that there was no pediatrics. In February 2015 we discussed this at a meeting of the parental committee and they told you that it was not. And they also talked to you about the problem of emergency centres and he also talked to you about it today, Mr Mezek, Mezek Method, who represented health homes, who today was your great advocate in all matters, then was a great critic and said that there were increasing comments on implementation or on the establishment of emergency centres, he talked about personnel and so on – I have a magnetogram here, I can read it to you – but that these comments were well-meaning and everyone was talking about good intentions at the time. If we go to the meetings now, because there were quite a few of them at these emergency centres, urgent medical care, these comments or willingness to cooperate were increasingly low, because we also noted at the meetings that the arrogance of the Ministry and your arrogance to these comments is inextricable, endless. At the time, you were told that there was no pediatrics, there were human resources problems, there would be such problems, and there would be other problems. February 2015! And today you claim that you did not know about this until the beginning of 2016, that no one informed you about it. You've been informed of this from Brežice, Celje and that you didn't know anything, it doesn't hold, Madam Minister. He can't handle it. I don't know how many times in the National Assembly, but it was just one of those things that you had to know about because you were informed because I have letters coming to your ministry that there are no emergency doctors. Now you are excused for not being a specialist is the fault of the Medical Chamber that signs off. Yes, once again, he signs them off, but in this working group he is also a representative of the Ministry of Health and Consent, finally consenting to the Ministry of Health for Specialization. And you're saying in response that you've reached increased specializations in pediatrics, but you didn't want them elsewhere because you can't because we don't have a public network because we don't have standards and you don't know what and how. The Medical Chamber – I went to look at these rules and I don't know everything – gets wishes if you want, from the performers, then signs, you give consent, while again stressing that the representative of the Ministry of Health is in this working group. If there is, I don't know, because I asked you earlier whether it was true that there had been a conflict of interest with a ministry representative in this working group and whether it had really been removed and whether it really put pressure on people to sign off on certain specialisations. So, what's done? There are no laws, they're all on the trenches, both doctors and patients, as we've heard, I.V. health, tragic events happen, search for culprits, more witch hunts, and that's now the right way. And that's the way! Finally, on television, he wonders if you are willing to bribe a doctor to get you first. Isn't that sad? Then we talk about waiting times that are the same or that waiting times are everywhere the problem. Yes, but not 700 days, as in the hospital of Jesenice, for example, which is the most successful hospital in Slovenia. And I'm not talking about doctors. I'm talking about you. You said it was the most successful hospital and so on. But when you go to different hospitals to watch waiting periods, you see that it is not in statistics or in these tables that are so good that other hospitals are. When are you going to go to other hospitals? And there they praised their work because they were waiting for it. No, you were at the UKC where you first supported Mr Baricic, who was your fiasco, which was your break. For the first time, Dr. Cerar believed you, but today he believes you will do things again, even though he was informed by the pharmacy law, but still believes you and stands behind you. I wonder how much longer. How many times does Mr Cerar know to act? You supported Mr Baricic at the time, today or in the new invitation you supported Mr Kopač, and I ask you, Minister, now in public because I have already raised no idea how many questions Mr Kopač is mentally and physically capable of running UKC Ljubljana with 7,000 employees for half a million budgets? [[…]] And how do you respond to the fact that UKC Ljubljana produced 6 million additional losses in six months? That's a question for you. So, does Mr. Digger, once again, meet all the conditions that are necessary, and is it true that he has been appointed illegally and that three actions have been filed? How do you respond to that, given that this was your candidate? So, you were in UKC Ljubljana, supporting him. You were at the hospital in Jesenice, saying it was a good hospital. Nice. When are you going to go to other hospitals and compliment them on other things? But not as you went to Celje Hospital, you praised the emergency center, and your last statement was, due to the renovation of the Celje Hospital, let Celje Hospital consider the second new location for the new hospital. We built an emergency center in the center of Celje next to the hospital, but now we'd put this hospital in a new place, another location where there would be better access, maybe even cheaper. But we're gonna leave the emergency center there? Madam Minister, I think we should think things over before you answer. So the question is why these laws have not been made so far. And don't answer me when they will. Why haven't they been? What are the reasons? Who are the lobbyists behind the Joint Parliamentary SDS to break with this interpolation? So it has been said that we are ruining the work of a minister, we do not want public health and so on. I'd like an answer to that because you said that from the point at the point it would show who's behind us. Which lobby is behind you so you don't find out? These are, I think, one of the main questions, but of course, the question of how do you comment on the position of the Desus Group, which has told you today openly and clearly that you are not doing what you should be disappointed with. I also think that in the SD Group, they were quite critical of current public health, but they said they were defending this public health care, which is currently being criticised in 15 minutes to below, but they are defending you because you are defending this public health care. Above all, what you have done in the area of corruption. I ask you again: Are these statements that you have made true? What did you do in the area of joint public procurement and that the record you promised the Court of Auditors on 17 July 2016, the records of medical equipment in hospitals – when will this record take place? Because this record is then the basis for better planning, shopping and also performing public procurement. What has been done in the field of venous braces to make matters known to the end? What did you do as a minister in the field of venous braces, cardiac valves? After all, how do you encourage doctors to report corruption or patients? These are questions for now. And then there'll probably be specializations. [[…]] Why do you avoid being responsible for the invitation to specialise? And then there's the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u21	The text is by Dr Mitja Horvat, to be prepared by Mrs Marija Bachič and Dr. Franz Ducky. Dr. Mitja Horvat, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. I thought the proponent would continue and I took a little walk because we've been waiting and listening for hours. I fully agree with the proposer. The question for today is where to find the culprit for his responsibility. The proposer found the Minister of Health today. For everything that has accumulated in 25 years in Slovenia, on all the grounds that we had in public health. Of course, it is obvious that in two years she has not completely eliminated this. It is impossible to solve so many accumulated issues, challenges within two years. Whoever thinks it's possible, she's wrong. I'm sure when you were in your own position, you were trying to solve all the health problems, but the problems remained. Ministers, the state of health, for my taste, for my behavior, for my experience, for the experience of people I know and who tell me because they need health care, it's not as bad as you want to introduce them. And especially the work of the Minister is not as bad as you want to present him here today. It is easy to defile and find someone for everything we are responsible for in our field; anyone who can and must contribute to the success of society is growing to the pleasure of living in a community in cooperation. The easiest thing to do is to find a minister and hold her responsible for all the issues that have accumulated in all these years, as you say, in order to prepare a comprehensive reform that she has never promised. Establish and operate networks of emergency centres. She did. Non-action in the area of extension of waiting periods. No, no, no, no, no! You said it yourself, and the minister told you nicely that she had taken measures, provided additional funds. It's working, it's working. Poor financial situation in Slovenian health care. This is one of the things we need to do more seriously in this environment. More seriously, for a simple reason, because we're running out of funds. You run an investigative committee on your own, and you know the funds are draining. Can the Minister do this on her own? Of course, we need to pull together our forces and try and do everything we can to make sure that the funds don't flow into the pockets of individuals or groups, but that they are meant for what they are meant to be. As a result, when you talk about concessions: never and never did the Minister say that concessions would be abolished, only to establish order in this area so that concessions are not granted to friends, acquaintances, by private interests and that, of course, concessionaires understand that they operate in a public network. Here I support and appreciate the efforts that you have made yourself to point out that concessionaires are part of the public network, and of course we hope that concessionaires know that they are part of the network to provide services in the public health system. I have two concessionaires, a personal physician – he is a concessionary – and my dentist is a concessionary. They are both very well aware of their position and I am pleased with their services. Where are we getting into this? It is, of course, complicated for us further, because, of course, overnight, the Minister cannot create the necessary personnel to provide all the services that are needed in society. In fact, when we are talking about a question that is a fundamental topic, namely, who is responsible for my responsibility, for the responsibility of everyone who is and should be responsible. There's no way you can put everything on the Secretary's back. That it is her fault that she is responsible for everything that is bad in the health care system. Absolutely not! We need to get in hand and, of course, all actors in the healthcare system must also accept their share of the responsibility for the existing situation. The Minister is the one who draws attention to these problems, the Minister is the one who is making efforts, the Minister is the one who is creating measures that try to change the health situation in the healthcare system to serve what he is meant to serve; he is intended for health. What do we say on every occasion that we want people for the new year, on their birthday, on any personal holiday? We wish you good luck and good health. That's what we want. As a result, of course, the right to health care is enshrined in the Constitution as a human right. We all have the right, and we are all, of course, committed and responsible for the state of health, each on its own first and then all actors until that moment, because the situation is deteriorating, that we must also act on the basis of scientifically sound methods, techniques, doctors in the health system. All respect is enjoyed by doctors in society, and doctors also have their famous Hippocrates oath. When I read it myself, I still have a few more hours to respond and think about this oath, what the mission of doctors is, what it's meant to be. When we look in fullness and today we are in the National Assembly and we talk about the responsibility you want to hang the minister, that she is responsible, that she is responsible, because people do not comply with the advice, with the doctrines that they have to take care of their health. Now I'm going to something that no one has touched so far — what about employers? How many employers respect and take into account the recommendations they receive from doctors, what should be done for any active citizen, a citizen in this society? How do we care about daily rest, how do we care that they are not burned, how do we care that we do not overuse them, when we are also talking, of course, about social damage, which we also know to possess or express through financial means? How much social damage is caused by the failure of employers to follow recommendations based on scientific knowledge? We're moving on. We're running out of money in health. How do we make money for the health care you're talking about? By paying for the contributions. A single system, we have a common system. Why is there no money? Due to payment non-discipline, because employers do not understand and ask and postpone payment of their obligations. Responsibility is broader, social, it has been found that the ways and that the Minister will already take care of the magic wand and that she will come to the Minister of Finance, find the means and we will be in solidarity to cover the non-compliance of the rules of the actors in society who are actively involved and causing problems that you are also talking about in your interpretation, which, by the way, while I am already in this – I must say – again is not what it should be. We should have questions today, not the imposition of responsibilities and evidentiary duties on the Minister. And we should talk about issues and, on the basis of an unacceptable or poor answer to the question, we could also vote on whether we continue to trust it or not. You say people aren't happy. I say that's not true. Of course, it's disgusting and awkward when you have to wait. But the secretary gave you a nice answer, and whoever needs medical care gets it. When it comes to life, I don't know a doctor who would say, "I'm sorry, go to the waiting line!" Of course, we have priorities, and also because of what is happening to us in society and in all possible areas, we have a service so much more, I have warned some of them, some of them could still be pointed out. But I didn't go into politics myself, and our client didn't come up because they stood by and did nothing. Therefore, I am happy and proud that we have such a minister who is engaged, engaged, working hard to make the situation better for the people. For the people! And the minister, who is working for people to improve health conditions and conditions, is not in place to report all that you've read to her in interpolation, not only is this unfounded, but I can safely say that this is also a malicious obstruction of her work. Today, rather than dealing with important substantive issues, he must answer unfounded allegations today. She answered you with an argument about responsibility, and you say, "Nothing." That's not true, the Minister answered you, she answered you in writing, and you say, she didn't say anything, nothing, nothing. That's not true. It's malicious. And, as has been said in the presentation, the minister has encountered obstacles to the fact that, according to a letter you tell me, more has come upon this sheet, you are reading it because it is not being talked about because it is stubborn and I do not know what else is not. It is interesting that the opposition, in particular your party, is working well with these groups that are obstructing the Minister and the Government that it cannot accept the necessary reform. This is an interesting question when we deal with the question of who is responsible. Also, if the Minister comes with a new idea of how to change the system, in order to be improved, to upgrade it, to update it, to respond to the modern challenges that we have, to meet it in a well-known principle, to come with some banal, insignificant solutions and then to smile, to discredit it, but at the end, when its efforts, the efforts of its ministry, its co-workers, the government are realized when the situation is improved, nobody sees it and recognizes it, except the people who know it. Except people who know. If the media were to report objectively, they would report what the situation is without looking for what we can read to someone, and we would look for who is responsible and responsible for the situation and individual cases. The Minister can't – as you once said on your second chance at safety. We can't have a special service that will take care of 100 percent, 24 hours, 7 days a week for security for everyone and everyone to keep each other safe. Of course, there are cases. And yes, I also call on: let the authorities know when there are anomalies, not that people who are in distress, who need or think that they need a specific health service, are in distress to raise money and pay as much as they need. If you think that there is no corruption in health care, and if you think that the Minister is the one who has to solve and announce all these issues, I advise each of us who are in this room, and all those who follow us the other way, we go to hospitals, university clinical centres, and look at the driving park. We follow the money when it's necessary. Of course, we do not do this because it is a respected doctor, and a respected doctor wants more money, of course he deserves it because he saves people’s lives. But his conduct, where there is profit from the distress of an individual, is just as repulsive as that of any other person who exploits another person’s distress. And we want to prevent this, and these are the efforts of the Minister of Health of Miley Kolar Celarc! What she told you nicely, and you simply ignore: effective, solidarity, quality public health. She has never and never talked about the suspension of concessions, which is obvious to her today during the presentation of her views and at the beginning of the discussion. He just wants to create order in this area. Whether it is really necessary through public call to grant concessions or not, we could talk about it, but let us leave the legal side of the issue. But colleague Kordish spoke well of the position of the United Left Group on the issue of amphibians. I've experienced it myself, so I can speak from my experience. The concessor was at a convention in Vienna and he had a tablet that said, "Private Doctor." Of course, his colleagues in Vienna asked him how it was possible for him to be a private doctor and so young that they usually had private doctors who had gained experience and then opened private practice and provided health services. Because of the fact that the family has developed in patients and doctors themselves that if you have a concession, you're a private person. Yeah, you didn't! That is why I say, I am pleased and I hope that you will insist on clarifying this issue as a proponent to clarify this question, what it is and what the concessionaire must do. I wonder if, at the time of the announcement, if it comes to it, whether doctors will work 40 hours a week and will not perform any concessional activities, they will provide any services after those 40 hours they will perform in public health. I would really like to know how the Medical Chamber will be qualified to answer questions about why they do not participate in legislative changes, except what you said you experienced at the Assembly, if I understand correctly, at the Medical Chamber. I am very interested in what and how the president and the doctor's union will answer these questions; for the nurses and grandmother's union, the issue has been significantly improved, given the state before the minister's appearance, whose responsibility we are dealing with today. If we take a look at this point — and I will not go into detail — but just so much into the question of who is responsible for the situation in this area. The abuse of interest groups, however, does not matter whether it is political parties because of political interests or whether it is a matter of concern for their position or whether it is the lobbies already mentioned in the existing system that make profits. What do I mean? The proposer argues that the Minister is responsible for the situation in this area, that we all want change and that there must be changes. When the minister offers them, what will she experience? Public pogroms, media pogroms, interpellations in the National Assembly, and work-disengagement. And then you say she's stubborn -- because she's working, because she's proposing, she's making changes that hit on the very essence of the problem. Because it's no worse in this society than if you wanted to make changes that would really change something when we're talking about the strong. But the minister is not as strong as the city or a little bit at the edge of what you are discussing. The secretary is on the side of the people. The Minister is working to create such conditions that people will come, as she has said, and if I repeat, to effective, solidarity-based, quality public health. Anyone who wants special medical services outside this system, why not just clean it up: not at the expense of public health, not as long as we have such long waiting lines, let him choose and let him go to a private doctor, for which it is necessary to create conditions. All problems in the public system – now I speak wider – begin and end in the case of health care. Just as doctors create conditions because of their special situation, because they are valued in society, because we all need them or because we fear that we will need them. Let me be forgiven by all those who faithfully and in accordance with the mission of doctors to carry out their work, but when we talk about entrepreneurship in health, of course this is another story. But this is what I said earlier at the Slovenian Medical Chamber – this must be agreed between the members of the Chamber, how they will face this issue and how they will take care of the reputation of health care and doctors in the Republic of Slovenia. Today this interpolation certainly does not benefit all doctors in a row, but I hope it will benefit what is in the program. And it's not true that we didn't have it, how we had it, and that's what we had in the program — public health, for people! I understand that if it is not written on 550 pages, it seems to you that this is not a program; in our party we can simply compact things into one concept, which very clearly tells us what our goal is, what our values are, what we want to achieve with our programme. This is done by Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc and is therefore supported by the President of the Government and the President of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Miro Cerar. Because we work hard and conscientiously. We work to make changes, but when we propose changes, we run into resistance. Whatever happens, just don't let it change; it changes so that nothing changes. Because we're used to it somehow, we're used to it, and people are just afraid of change. All that we don't know, so because we don't know what's waiting for us after the changes, that's why a very simple psychological loop happens or psychologically follows. Ignorance makes us afraid because we don't know yet because we're not used to it, we don't have the experience of how it's going to be in the new situation, and then we start attacking everything on the average, like today's minister, completely unjustifiable, as it were, with this interpretation, which actually isn't. I also appreciate the proposaler's position that it is only by amending the law that the situation can be changed. That's great, and now, say, as a lawyer, I'm flattered and I feel strong, just like the doctors we're talking about today. Wow, lawyers like doctors have one power in society, because we can change things. We adopt marriage, and life will be the way we want it to be. All we have to do is discuss what list of wishes we have, the list, the law, and the case is solved. Once we have passed the law, and we have adopted the laws that we now have, we would not be discussing today that the Minister is responsible for the situation, because she has done nothing because she does nothing, which is of course not true, but we would support her in her efforts to improve the state of implementation of the laws. That's why she also said, "I'm not talking about not believing in the system, I believe in the system, the system as it is good, we're going to upgrade it and, of course, we're going to adapt to the challenges of modern times." Fortunately, I wish to continue this debate to everyone, of course, when you are looking for who is responsible for the responsibility of those responsible for the situation and conduct in this society. How neurotic. Just like the usual. How does something we experience every day in the National Assembly, when someone is held accountable, first come to the question: Who is responsible for my responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I have listened carefully to all the debaters since morning, and allow me to answer at least a few of the questions that you accuse me of actually being purely responsible for everything that happens is or will happen in the Slovenian health system. That's how it turns out. When I listened to the proposer, then I was responsible for the situation in the health department, for the hospital situation, for the health conditions in the hospitals, even in pharmacies, practically everywhere. Then let us ask ourselves why we have the management of individual public health institutions, why we have sacred institutions, administrations, why we have supervisory institutes, directors of the Health Insurance Institute, the board of directors, where, by the way, the government or the ministry of one member and the 45-member assembly have 4 members. It is very simplistic and simple and misleading to discuss in this way and not to take into account the legislation in force for us. So much for the intro. Now I'm going to answer a few questions that you've been reading to me. With regard to primary health care, I would like to reiterate once again that our primary level is good and much better than in Austria, although it is the coordination of medical organisations that places great emphasis on how good primary safety is there. I'll also bring in the Ministry of Humans to tell you. But if you look at pictures of the quality of primary health care, you will see that Slovenia is painted green and Austria red. So much for that. This is the conclusion found by the international institutions on the basis of the monitoring of 77 indicators. And that is what we are proud of, and we must also say that we also have gynecologists and pediatricians who do not have most European countries at the primary. About the lobbying. As I have said many times before, I advocate consistent respect for the second paragraph of Article 68 of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. That is why I demand from all my fellow workers at the Ministry of Health that they respect it fully. However, experts in this area have assured me that there are no discussions, interviews, discussions with representatives of professional associations, chambers, as we regularly meet with them, cooperate, and do not need to be recorded as a lobbyist contact. As lobbying, you probably know that for yourself, it is only a contact that has signs of lobbying in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. And of course, any indiscreet lobbyist's contact with lobbyists who intends to influence both the content and the process of taking certain solutions or, if you wish, certain solutions to individual laws is considered an act of lobbying. During my term of office, we made five lobbyist contacts, and I didn't report any of them because apparently the lobbyists are avoiding me directly because they know in advance that they probably won't achieve anything with me. However, lobbyist contacts have been reported twice for medicines, once for helicopter emergency assistance and once for optimisation of management or medical solutions. However, as regards dialogue, cooperation, conversation and broken relations, I will take a little more time to deny that I am not cooperating. Since interpellationists repeatedly repeat this, it turns out that this lie has become almost the truth. I work with all the stakeholders, as I've said many times. Therefore, I will only give you an example of the harmonisation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, which has been, listen to this, in a public debate already on 29 September 2015 and is not yet harmonised, not by my fault or responsibility. In the public debate, there were 30 responses, all discussed, taken into account a majority that was in line with the concept or coalition contract and the requirements of the directive and our legislation. But, of course, this bill has been coordinated with other stakeholders. Five times with the Medical Chamber. I can give you the dates. The last coordination was on 27 September of this year. Four times we have coordinated with health care unions and housing organisations in this area, from the Health and Grandparents Chamber, the RSK for Health Care, the Health and Grandparents Council on the regulation of the status of midwives or the implementation of the directive in practice on the recognition of professional qualifications in the field of healthcare, which should of course be transferred to Slovenia's legal order with Slovenia's entry into the EU; that is, no later than May 2004. So after 12 years, we actually managed to reconcile the problem with the middle nurses. Next. We have twice had a coordination meeting with representative associations of municipalities – we are still talking about the same change in law. Of course, because interests are legitimate, I understand them, but I always try with all stakeholders to find the best possible solutions that go to the benefit of the healthcare system for the good of people. This was, of course, mainly the provisions of the transitional provisions on the collection of surpluses by the founder of public health establishments. In the past it has happened that, with certain conclusions, the founders have taken away the surpluses of health homes that these homes have received from the payment of services, according to our contributions, and these surpluses, of course, have ended even if you want to, in asphalting roads. This has been pointed out by many directors, and this is actually an anomaly in our system, because we know that the Public Health Institutions Act of 1992 is. Two meetings with the management of the Commission on Medical Questions. Another problem that has not been solved in Slovenia alone, and we are solving their status and way of awarding with these changes. Coordination meetings for the health treasury were also held. Then, and I can also list to you, the coordination meetings specifically called for are also due to the complexity of the matter, not to say, i.e. with individual ministries: for science and sport education, for the Ministry of Labour, for social affairs – for the problem of carrying out health activities in social institutions and for special educational institutions for children and young people with special needs – four times. And with the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration three times. With the Financial Administration, where after many years we finally solved the problem of contract work, the work under business contracts, also for doctors of course, and their way of taxation, which has been and has gone wrong in the past, many things have gone wrong. We also had a coordination meeting with the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and with AKOS on advertising health services. Well, I could still list it. A similar story is the Law on Pharmacy, which, of course, you attribute to it unconstitutionality, non-conformity. The pharmacy law was also in public debate in 2015 and has since been coordinated. By the way, on Monday, the Management Board of the Pharmacy Chamber unanimously supported the bill with the amendments tabled. All of this proves and denies that I am not talking, that I am not trying to negotiate, that I am not trying to reach compromises, of course with one goal, but I cannot allow myself to accept, for what I have committed when I have accepted this function, solutions that will benefit only one party or one interested community. Of course, this coordination cannot take place either by setting conditions and saying, so we demand that this be done, otherwise we do not agree with the proposal, because you yourself know from life and experience, that if you want to reach a compromise and if there is good intentions on both sides to achieve this compromise for a higher and better objective, this is also achieved. Unfortunately, this is not the case with all stakeholders. For this reason, it takes so long that such important system laws after 24 years can be prepared for this stage to be adopted and attended by the Government. When I first presented the resolution on a 10-year programme with activities and measures of Slovenian health care in the Economic and Social Council, Mr Hribar Milič said to me, and I will quote him: "Minister, your most difficult task will be to prepare the documents by supporting both employers and employees. If you succeed, you succeed." And in the event of a resolution, I succeeded, and also in the case of amendments to the Health Act. So, I'm a man of compromise, I'm negotiating and I'm cooperating. The next evidence is the introduction of the Emergency Medical Service Regulation, which is an act of the Ministry, and if you did not listen to people, experts, healthcare professionals, then this Regulation could be drawn up, harmonised along the way and published in the Official Journal. And I didn't do it, and of course we spent a lot more time. I even travelled to Slovenia with my team, was on the public stands and answered questions to everyone, including citizens and citizens of Slovenia, on Ptuj, in Murska Sobota, in Trbovje, in Celje, in Isola, in Novi Gorica and in Ljubljana. I say all this because people hear, because they repeat themselves so many times, I will say, lies about this cooperation. It is true, however, that certain stakeholders, on the other hand, are setting conditions, otherwise they say they will not talk. Unfortunately, this is the case, and I believe that before such a challenge there was also a minister, my predecessor, who may have given up and left. But as for the invitation to specials, do I run away from responsibility? By no means, I wish and demand that the call for specialisations from the Slovenian Medical Chamber be transferred to the Ministry of Health, so that at least the Ministry will have a final and decisive role if it is already responsible for the human resources policy of the entire public health network. Of course, I do not exclude proposals and the participation of professions in such or other forms. A person cannot be held responsible if he has neither the authority nor the ability to make decisions, for responsibility always goes hand in hand with authority. I agree with you when you say yes, but the Ministry of Health has agreed to specialization. Indeed, I can say for my mandate that in these years I have not automatically agreed to the envisaged call for the number of specialisations and, of course, I have requested certain corrections; for those specializations where we know that today there is a lack of specialists, from anesthesiologists, pathologists, urologists and anyone else to list. I also ensured by the regulation that they would come to Slovenia to work as other specialists, I did as soon as we found out or when the situation in UKC Maribor was as it was. As regards the operation of public health institutions, I am to say that I have found the state of accumulated losses in these institutions, which was at the end of 2014 131 million. So, whose responsibility it is, can they bear the responsibility of the saints of institutions, directors, mercenaries, for what was done in 2015 and 2016? However, I have repeatedly said to the health care sector that about 500 million or, if you want, more than half a billion euros of money have been taken away during the crisis. Therefore, in the introduction, I have already said what I have done in these two years in order to improve the financial situation, business, professionally called both directors and sacred institutions in these hospitals in Slovenia. As you know, we have also been coordinating for quite some time the so-called law banning the use of tobacco and tobacco products. You have mentioned that this is a wrong priority, but it is not a wrong priority, and we are obliged to bear it because it is a European directive. Similarly to the law on transplantation of human organs, because if we did not prepare and adopt it, we would have been punished; because when I took office, we were already two years behind in the transposition of the directive. So, I strongly reject these findings. Even with the concessions. The concessionaire is, of course, part of the public network, but the award of the concession means that the concessionaire has access and the right to finance from the public health care programme or from the health department and is a ticket for him to actually run for public money. As I have said many times before, I will repeat that we do not terminate concessions. With this law, we want to eliminate the illegal situation in Slovenia since 2007, since the Law on Public-Private Partnership has been in force, not to say that the matter is not in line with the European concession directive. And one more thing to say is that this directive only applies in three articles to public services, these are health and social services, and that health services are not defined as any other economic service. For this there are also judicatures, including the judgment of the European Court of Justice, for you mentioned that the pharmacy law is unconstitutional with regard to vertical links, that this hinders and limits the free economic initiative. The European Court of Justice has already ruled in 2006 that, due to the increased public interest, the supply and accessibility of medicines for the people of a country is in a higher interest than the restriction of a free economic initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u26	First of all, to the execution of the Minister. I would like to thank you for these answers, but she has not answered the key question why key laws have not been passed so far, as they also tell you in the Desus coalition party. That's one thing. That's another thing. What were your actions to curb corruption and money laundering, as your coalition MP was talking about? I would like to know how and in what way also with regard to this procurement of medicines, given that you have issued a conclusion that hospitals must purchase exclusively medicinal products from Slovenian plasma or plasma exclusively from the Institute of Transfusion Medicine and that what is different can be placed on a public contract. Why not fully public procurement? And why have you issued a decision that is not in accordance with public orders to purchase exclusively from the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine? Is it not also some form of encouragement, such as corruption, or encouragement, that drugs are paid higher because they could reach a lower price on the market, and lawyers have found that this decision is illegal? Let me get back to the beginning of your answers. You said that you were not responsible for the functioning of public institutions, for the poor financial situation in public institutions, which is the responsibility of management, members of the board of institutions, supervisory committees and so on. Minister, isn't the state the founder of the public institution, say, UKC Ljubljana, where 6 members of the board are the institution of 11 appointed by the Ministry? So, doesn't the government or you as the minister or the ministry of most of the board members of the institution? Then you have a chance to control things. And it's you or the government who agrees to appoint directors. And you're the one who named the headmistress who is the market inspector in Brežice. So, responsibility is on the Ministry's side, responsibility is on the government's side. This is an objective responsibility, if not subjective, because you have given your consent to the appointment of the Director in Brežice, who is a market inspector, and the Director of UKC Ljubljana, as some have found today, but not only on our side, I must say that other Members have also asked you in the questions sent. And I ask you once again in public: Do the current director of UKC Ljubljana or the director of Brežice General Hospital meet all the conditions for them to be directors of such public institutions? If you have such a protocol that you have accepted as members of the board of the institution that are, I will say, those criteria are worse than for the hospital director, and you have adopted this regulation by which you have replaced 88 members of 134 or resolved and replaced. I agree that primary health care is good. No one claimed it wasn't. I just said that this primary health care has too few family doctors and those who exist are saving you this primary health care and you're overloaded and what's going on. This is what I think either you or the secretary in some of the performances have also said – that it happens that doctors extend or increase waiting periods because they write guides and travel directly because they simply do not have time to deal with at the primary level. We're running out of family doctors, you know that. And we're not saying that primary health isn't good! Many countries do not have primary health care such as we do, some kind of doorhouse before hospital treatment, but lack of family doctors. But those who are, they're overloaded. Today in the field, on the periphery, they face the problem that doctors simply do not want to go to these health homes on the periphery; they would all be at the clinical center. And what did the Ministry do about it? Because you promised incentives for family doctors. You promised them! Now I ask you what these positive changes are in this area. The lobbyists are avoiding you, you say. But you still haven't answered me, but what are those lobbies that are somehow in the background worrying that you can't produce this thing to this point in order to get legislation into the National Assembly? You're talking about us blocking the adoption of laws in the National Assembly. Yeah, what if they're not even there? The Act on Pharmacy, as I have already said at the meeting, I simply cannot accept it as a Member. No matter where I am, I do not understand the coalition which can be the law with 126 articles, with more than 120 amendments, which are not only editorial but also substantive, and with the opinion of the ZPS, the Information Commissioners, the KPK and so on; the law where the ZPS said the possibility of unconstitutionality and that the law will go immediately to the Constitutional Court – how can a Member vote for such a law? And how could you and the Prime Minister of the government allow such a law to be supported and sought to have this law adopted in the National Assembly? Today we have heard about your coordination that coordination for one year in this law was not even coordination. For the last time, public television – three-and-a-half-hour coordination, not only the Pharmacy Act, but everything else. And today you claim that this was coordinated! Then your coalition MPs lie! Then you're right, so it was coordinated, but public on TV was told and then someone was lying. I just want this whole picture because one guy says something, the other guy says I'm just summarizing these things. [[…]] I don't know how you coordinate in the coalition and how you coordinate with the Medical Chamber. That's your problem. I already told you that. And that you can't coordinate matters in a year, that's up to you. I don't know, but then you need an arbitration – or what? Then you need a third person to be joined by the Ministry and all these interesting or these things to bring the marriage through, but you have a problem in the coalition. You don't even coordinate here. What I'm listening to, and I'm not going to point out here because these are rumors, then it's really unbearable. If the law is not yet in harmony, in a year — who is to blame? The opposition that's pointing to these things? The opposition who gave the interpolation for pointing out things you didn't do? Yes, then stop the opposition. Then say, we don't need to. I mean, like my colleague Horvat said, we're guessing that we're wasting our time with interpolation today, you should not know what to do today, I don't know what to do, and then stop us. [[…]] Then stop the interpolation. Then we don't need that. We don't need criticism, we just need those who press the button yes, for marriage. And no matter what he's like. This was today's message from a fellow SMC: Don't guess! Interpelation is not a guess. Interpellation today, once again, is the emphasis or demonstration that the Minister has not adopted the key laws to date, that the Minister has not done enough to reduce the waiting period so that corruption can get angry and so on. It also appears from the statements of the coalition Members that it has not coordinated the laws, as it claims today. Now you've turned the panel on concessions, and now all of a sudden there are concessions O.K. On the one hand, I agree that it cannot be the Minister's fault for certain matters. I agree with that. But once again, the normative plan tells you something, you say something else. "I've done everything and more!" Yes, everything and more! You're not. If I insist on laws, maybe this is a banal thing for a fellow SMC, if laws change everything, I didn't say that, but the laws are the basis for changing certain things, then you didn't do anything. You said two marriages have been in coordination for a year; a year, you'll probably have some more time. Too much of a public debate about the emergency medical policy, you went on the ground. Yes, you went — after the meetings were held in the National Assembly, when you were told to come to the field when you were asked to attend the meetings of the National Assembly, which were held in February, March, April and May. Madam Secretary, you didn't go to the field on your own. You were forced to go from congregation to health homes to hospitals because you were hunted down in the hallways and asked for dates and asked for dates. February 2015 were the meetings, April 2015 was the meeting – you were on the ground in May. I would like to know if, without this, it is true that this is a sub-law, that it is within the competence of the Ministry; I agree that the National Assembly should not influence this, but that the public concerned can call and discuss it and we have done so. [[…]] That's why you took things this way. I can read your magnetograms again from then on, and you'll see what they were like. All that you're saying today is no. You say you have also reacted in personnel matters in Maribor, I agree. You've brought in foreign doctors, specialists, personnel, or you've given some kind of consent. I wonder what about Slovenian doctors who go abroad, young researchers who go abroad who have no opportunity here. What did you do for them? What are your measures to keep young researchers here? What measures have you taken for those doctors who have pointed out irregularities in public procurement in terms of corruption, but in fact, as they say in one of the media, they have been professionally killed? I'm not saying you're responsible for this. I'm just asking what and how you're dealing with this; so that young doctors stay at home to specialize in those areas that we need, so that we don't have to import, if I say so badly, foreign doctors, which, of course, can't be prevented, what's normal and what's going on, but I'm primarily interested in what you've done for it. Poor financial situation in UKC Ljubljana, which is the fault of the director and so on. You said that right at the beginning of your term of office you focused on the revenue side. I'd like to know what you've done on the expenditure side to make it a smaller cost. Why there is still no record of the equipment referred to by the Court of Auditors, medical equipment in hospitals where you deceived the Court of Auditors because you said it would be done in July. And to this day, there is no such thing. We heard this at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. Minister, you were deceiving the Court of Auditors. You promised the Court of Auditors medical records by July 2016. Today is October, and these records are still missing, and as we have heard, it may be December. Tobacco law – I didn’t say it was wrong, far from it, but a tobacco cent is a tax, and you don’t deny it. It's a new tax. But this tax won't solve what we're talking about, the millions we're talking about, because you're saying this will solve the matter. She won't. 200 million won't solve the case. And one more question. Is it true that the Ministry of Finance is planning to be coordinated with you and you have always boasted that you have connections at the Ministry of Finance, or while Minister Marble was planning to cut your investment in health by 0.6 GDP? Is it true that this is planned in the long run? I'm asking if that's true. Don't laugh now, because I don't know, I got this information from the Ministry of Finance, and I'm wondering if that's true. If that's true, then you're deceiving people again today because you say more money will go to health. I'm asking you, if that's not true, it's so much better. You spoke again about the need for a tobacco law to be passed, otherwise we will receive penalties from the European Union. What about long-term care? Since it has been promised to Brussels that we will resolve this, I think it is now September 2016. What about here, or is that not a problem? It's probably the same way. So I also wonder when this long - term care law will be on the table. You say the illegal state in the field of concessions. Okay, I believe that certain concessions have been granted illegally, which is what everyone is saying now. Okay. Who gave them and who got those concessions? That's the answer I want. And if you know about this illegal distribution, because it was 2007, we have already heard that Mr Bručan was guilty, but the last time one Member said so, then once again, I want a name and who got these concessions in what area. If you know that, Madam Minister, what have you done in this area and have an analysis of this? Can you tell me how many such concessions there are and what have you done to sanction these concessions and that these concessionaires or those who granted them? Because you were talking about responsibility. Because I don't know about these things, I mean, I'm listening to this all the time today, but pre-election videos are almost on the Internet about these concessions and illegal concessions, and no one is telling who has them. We're just saying they are. Now we're gonna cut down the whole forest because of some five trees. I don't know, five, ten, I don't know how many. How many concessions, how many illegals, how many who are supposed to stay? A colleague who was unsuspecting because I had spoken for too long then — I listened to him well — and I am interested in Yes, a minister in two years cannot solve what was left behind — how much did you say? [[…]] 25 years. The Minister said there would be two mandates, only you two won't last. It's better for you to start working now because you're only one year away from the election, but so far nothing has been done and it won't be. Of course, we are wrong because we do not know that in 25 years nothing has been done at all I once again call on former ministers and former heads of government to respond to this, to your fact that they have done nothing. [[…]] That's what I'd like to hear, the answer to the questions, and I'm sure they'll hear something today. What you were saying about the driving park, Mr. Horvath, that was a little rough. I agree that one has a Mercedes and the other one has a fiche, but that doesn't mean everyone's stealing. That doesn't mean you're in your 30s and you can't keep building a house, a good car. It's also kind of, I'll say, and misleading and accusing certain or just all doctors because they have such a driving park. You might ask yourself that question or explain what you meant by that. Then again, if you suspect that this fleet is derived from the taxpayer’s money and that it has leaked out the window – please report it to the authority. Go ahead and report! That's exactly the fleet they're looking at. Not here in the National Council to talk about what kind of driving park doctors have. I'm not talking to you or anybody, but if that's what you're thinking, then report it. Based on what you're saying. In 30 years, however, I think that anyone who has worked — not everyone, but in such situations, with such a salary — can also afford a house and a good car, but I do not defend the matter. I want to know what you meant by that. I wonder who those who own such a fleet and who made such a fleet possible for them. Who gave them such a driving park? Not with the taxpayer's money. The minister listed a network of emergency centres. Well, don't be silly. The ER network didn't do it. That's what I think, too, you know! The minister opened them, and she took a picture, and that was it, the network was set up far back, and that was a very bad foundation, like the minister speaking, which took over these bad foundations. 2006 was the start of the emergency centres, 2009 was the money and so on. So not about the secretary making a network of emergency centers. Once again, I ask you what are these groups that are kind of blocking the ministry's work – I am also asking Members who have been talking about this today. How things are improving — that’s what I’m interested in. What is it, and people know if you've been on the ground lately. And I'll say six months, not now, today, yesterday, when the interpolation is on the table. Or did you go to a doctor and hear what people think at the hospital? I've been, I've been seeing doctors all summer, and I know what the situation is in hospitals. Not everything is everywhere, there are good examples, I must say, that more and more of these good cases are coming because it's good, which is positive, but everyone praises doctors, not how things work. I would also like to ask what were those changes in the National Assembly that were put on the table and made them impossible in perfection. Look, we're in the opposition, we don't have enough votes. On the board, I think there are ten votes from the coalition, five or six votes from the opposition. And now you're saying we're stopping. We are obstructing the implementation of the Minister, the law enforcement of the National Assembly! With these 19 votes plus, I don't know, New Slovenia or anyone else, we still don't have and you're saying that the opposition is blocking the performance of the Minister in the National Assembly! [[…]] So who believes you, tell me! Who? You have 35, 10, 5, and so on. And now you are telling the citizens here that the opposition is guilty that the laws are not adopted. You've been ruined by the Medical Act by coalition parties, not by the opposition. We have proposed the full withdrawal of the law, but it has not been voted on. We then, of course, supported Desus' proposal because we agreed that the law was inappropriate. So blame the opposition for not being accepted in the National Assembly, but it's ridiculous. No recommendations have been adopted, as we recommended. They weren't! Nor do medical activities talk about concessions. That wasn't accepted. However, joint conclusions were adopted; for example, in the field of children with special needs, where the decision was – but this was, I think, in March 2015 – that the Ministry must prepare systemic solutions in this area by the end of 2015. And the Ministry didn't prepare them! Now we have a situation where one of the Members is producing this further. So the Members will now deal with this and the Ministry will raise its hands and say, "There have been conclusions and we don't care." The decision was also voted at a meeting of the National Assembly to introduce the Rules of Procedure to the National Assembly by the Minister, in advance of the Rules of Procedure in the Official Journal. Emergency medical regulations, once again, 10. 10., in the Official Journal 2015, the Minister shall send to the Health Committee 11. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The decision was before the announcement, not after everything was ad acta. So much about how the opposition is ruining the minister's work and how much the opposition is responsible for the minister's work. We don't have a majority, we made recommendations, the ministers on the Health Committee don't have much, they go to the State Secretary who has to listen – indirectly guilty and not directly – and then we fight about who is now, the Minister is not, comes when it's a good topic. And now you, I say again, are accusing the opposition of all guilt, for all that the laws of the National Assembly have not been passed. That it is not harmonised by the Health Activity Act, that it is not harmonised by the Medical Activity Act, that it is not the Health Care and Health Insurance Act – this is not the opposition's fault, Mr. Member, this is not the opposition's fault! But I'm interested in who are the lobbyists who are obstructing the minister and the interest groups that are impeding it. You're all talking about it, and no one's saying anything, and you're all saying it in the hallway, because we all know. No, I don't know, say it clearly and loudly, who! So don't blame the opposition. Once again, Minister, I hope that you will answer later also why certain changes have not been adopted, and what your I am going to repeat later on these questions. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much, chairman. In view of the express wish of the representative of the proposer, I am pleased to respond and return to the floor. You didn't understand me correctly, but you didn't interpret me in particular. I have never and never said that the opposition is guilty, that we have not adopted laws and that the opposition is obstructing the work and that we should stop you. This is not the first time that comes to mind, and secondly, I respect the Constitutional Court's decision to say that without the opposition it does not go to democracy. It is quite clear that I respect you and not only that; I think life without you would be empty and empty as life without bees in the world. We need you urgently because there are no lively debates without it. And given how carefully you know how to look for reminders that have not occurred to me, I really must say that you did not understand me correctly, because I really didn't want to stick this to you and I want to give you the form of long and effective fruitful years in the National Assembly and in the political space of the Republic of Slovenia. But I said that the intervention against Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc was unfounded and that it was maliciously obstructing her effective work. I also said that because you told her that she was not in dialogue with certain stakeholders, I just said that it is interesting that you have good access and good dialogue with stakeholders, whose interests you have also defended so fiercely in your performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the floor. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Today's intervention against the Minister of Health seems a little premature. But I'll tell you why I think so. Because every government that has so far set itself for the purpose of reforming health care, which no one has carried out in 15 years – because there was no real will, there was no perseverance and stubbornness if you want to hear, and because every reform always touches on the privileges of certain stakeholders. Even though everyone wants change and reform, but when reform touches on their already acquired privileges, suddenly the desire for reform wanes. Then the minister, instead of insisting, withdraws and forgets the reform. And now, in two years, we all expect a miracle from our Minister of Health to clean up all the health irregularities and carry out the necessary reforms and legislation. As I am monitoring, the Minister is persistent and is working hard in health to make order and implement what is called reform. I'm sure it'll work out in due course. Although we Slovenians are known to like to criticize, to black out a man, to commend someone, we find this really hard to do. I accept the opposition's well-intentioned criticism in order to make things better, but not just criticise and seek faults. I think we are not aware of how this dissatisfaction affects people, patients, those in need of health care. And then they go to the doctor with fear, and what happens there, what I'm going to experience there if everything's so wrong. I believe that constructive cooperation and debate always have effects, and if there is a constructive debate today, I think there will be success. An analysis of the health system in Slovenia from January 2016 commissioned by the Minister of Health clearly and unequivocally confirms that in Slovenia we have a good health care system, with a built-in social security mechanism, which is also the essence of all social reforms, as well as health care. In the everyday life of an individual, accessibility and quality and safe medical treatment are considered, which must be based on the patient’s needs and not on the ability to pay. And here in accessibility are serious problems in too long queues. It is precisely these shortcomings that we realize only when we need health care while waiting for an examination, for treatment, for examinations, for examinations, for vague referrals. Although the government has invested some more money to reduce waiting lines for some of the most critical diseases due to the problem of waiting species. Of course, not all hospitals have adopted all possible additional programmes because most of the programmes are underfunded or because of inadequate organisation, hospitals are unable to implement them. That is why we really need the necessary appropriate legal solutions, which we also advocate for the Social Democrats, namely accessible, efficient and quality public health. Although Slovenia is among the first countries to have regular access to a doctor at the primary level, including family medicine specialists, pediatrician and gynaecologist. Here, dear ones, it is imperative to add a dentist, for we all know how important a healthy tooth is, and if food is not well chewed, it causes many diseases. It is also unacceptable that the waiting line for prosthetics is a year or more, since we know how people feel without teeth, both older and active. So, like a gynecologist, a dentist should have greater autonomy to decide what is urgent and priority and without a waiting book. I believe that the resulting diseases that such a situation can bring will cost health care much more than a proper and timely service. The Ministry's priority is also the Long-term Care Act, which aims to establish a comprehensive system of assistance for all persons, regardless of age, which is long-term or permanently inseparable in the conduct of basic daily and support activities, with an emphasis on the provision in the domestic environment, which will be cheaper for the user than the use of more expensive institutional care. As I can monitor, a good team is appointed at the Ministry and will be ready in a short time. Let me finish. I believe that the Minister is working well with the team, but there are many health problems and everything that has been under the carpet for many years, unfortunately, cannot be solved in two years. However, I hope that the Minister will be able to carry out all the tasks and reforms expected in our time. Dear Minister! May these well-intentioned criticisms and our observations bear fruit and give you an additional element for changes in health care that will benefit all patients and all of us citizens. I certainly support you, and I will vote against your dismissal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat and Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good day to all, especially to citizens and citizens who accompany this meeting from the balcony! After 5 hours, 21 minutes and 12 seconds, the first member of the opposition is on the table for discussion; obviously this is Jelka Godec's day – but, okay. Since I'm a professor and I'm a little sick today, I'm gonna start reading. I quote. "The main problem of Slovenian transition was how to manage its new democracy by giving Slovenia good policies that will be able to lead the country well. In order to give “freedom” progress and prosperity, and not break apart, they must provide for active and highly professional national political elites......" Although the concept of elites is not close to me, I must say. I quote further, the current state of affairs. "...for the "public sector" and for the "state" scene, almost all motivations and activities are private. We have not even begun to establish our new independent country. So far it's just fallen apart old; it's not new..." On the health insurance system, I quote, "...in these industries, the sole consideration of privatisation was the private looting of the social......" And a public health quote. "...but note that the poor governance of the Slovenian public sector is not so self-evident. The added value of an employee who creates the so-called “economy” (the sum of that in domestic and foreign ownership) is half the size of that created by Austria or Germany. Does anyone think that they are operating with a half-lower efficiency of Austrian or German education and health care as well? The relative quality of Slovenian public systems is obvious, but it is true that it is mainly determined only by old-time inertia and that the situation continues to deteriorate......" And also the last quote, "...if anyone thinks that foreign capital will bring us the prosperity that it creates in their home countries, let him take a look at "the demands of foreign investors", such as the German or American Chamber of Economics in Slovenia." This is Mr Frančko Drenovac's reflection on Slovenia, the country of folly and poverty of the last Saturday annex. I can say that from this title I could almost draw the path so far in some part of this debate. Who is to blame, so we like to talk about guilt here – you are guilty of all those who have been in politics so far and who we are now, including the opposition, and of all those who have been and who are in the executive branch of power. But it is not up to us to fight who is to blame, who is not to blame — like my children when I come as a father; it is up to us to seek solutions. In one part of the opinions given so far, the fault was somehow attributed to the insurers. Yes, we have so-called supplementary health insurance, where they get a good eighth, 13%, 60 million a year. In two years five years of operation of the National Assembly entirely, if you go to watch the item; yes, purely for the feeling. But why do they take it — because they are such laws. Our job is to have the interest of public health – you know the relationship of the United Left to concessions and concessionaires – to arrange these matters to adopt a legal framework, this is our description of the work and the mission to monitor how this is done, to make proper amendments, to see whether inspection services work to protect well-intentioned whistleblowers in this sector and where, not to pingponge on this guilt. It is 3.2 billion, and everyone who has been particularly involved in enforcement policy so far, of course, you have tried – once, twice – to please either pharmacists or pharmacists or insurance companies or doctors, but I will tell gerontological gentlemen in the medical profession, or partly concessionaires, or you have been a populist abuser of mayors. There's a lot of money here, a lot of interest, a lot of actors who are very often around. It is not that I will defend the Minister here from the opposition, but it is our responsibility to cut it off at some point and to adopt legislation for the benefit of the greatest lobby, which is the worst represented, those sitting here today and all of us. Regardless of religion, sexuality, cultural preferences, ideology, parties, non-party, up and down, everyone would probably want to be healthy. And this is our responsibility, and here we are, if you want, basically all guilty; to adopt appropriate legislation to improve it. We all know that concession problems are. We know that lawyers sell their concessions to each other. Just one case. We know there's always more d. o. Nine homes of older citizens are owned by the company Deos d. d. 700 Euros of net profit per share. Lobbyists – last November accepts Assistant Bishop Anton Jamnik Cerar. The visit is unexpectedly joined by Mrs Metka Zorc, the largest owner and president of the health care company Medico, better known for the most famous recreational basketball player, the second largest private recipient of healthcare funds. Mr. Jamnik is a member of the Medici Supervisory Council, and the Ljubljana archdiocese is the 7% owner of the Medici. What was going on? Our Kordish is still asking the government. We haven't got an answer yet. Concessions in dental care, which is more than half in concession – I have genetically negative teeth, and we know how this works. The citizens can tell you, ask them. And I could still keep going, and I won't. The proponent herself said that we are not talking here about public health, non-public health; she dragged out – I don't know of course she has to mention Venezuela that – I don't know – the reporter probably won't drop the load. [[…]] As if I were to mention in this interpretation, I don't know if Janez Jansho is worried because the number of Twitter users is not growing. But that's how we talk about these interpretations, and of course we're talking wrong, because I'm probably a little naive about the predominant political culture. Interpellation is a debate on the problems of a sector, if any, and there is a responsible debate on how to address these problems. There will always be a minister or a minister and, of course, he will be objectively guilty and it is somehow the easiest thing to do, according to your own words. Dialogue is often not possible. After a quarter of a century, we can see that the medical summit is essentially blocking appropriate staffing. For example, here was the debate, the market inspector is the director of the hospital in Brežice. I don't know the lady. I don't know. But you know, from what Mrs. Godec said, I remember in our views back in 1993, even before Crnkovic came up when they shut down, one expert on the health system literally said that, given that doctors manage, lead, health care in Slovenia is still going well. In some serious countries, this is a specialist study at the branch of the management of organizational sciences and so on. After all, it is a shame that the Esdees will understand that a top abdominal surgeon becomes the hospital director and is the hospital director for so long and so long. I mean, we trained him to be a top-notch abdominal surgeon. Let's also think about it a little bit. There are people who warn; there is Dr. Brecelj, there is Dr. Robida. We would also need the protection of whistleblowers after all. But this interpellation of course will somehow sound like some pingpong between us, but in fact we have here two stories; if you want the Secretary's view of how to reform this resort – this view probably represents here New Slovenia – and we have a Kebra view that is of course much closer to us. Of course we can call it ideology, we can call it something else, this is a debate, some reflection on health reform that we need to carry out here. But when we talk about reforms, I've heard it so many times, someone even said it, and they're doing reforms every two or three years of reform. Wait, reform is done five, sometimes ten years on the basis of some really thoughtful debate and based on a political decision. That's what this is about. And we need to make a political decision and go into reforms. With regard to the health system, however, if you want to seriously compare it from Maribor, you should put 7 billion into this health system. We also have to ask ourselves, because we're an aging society, where we're going to find these pennies and how much. Of course, there are some irregularities, there are kleptopathic practices, so order should be centralised. Of course, people who wait years and years, thousands of days up and down in pain, even palliative care should be discussed – by the way, they will say that all the bastards are full of money, that we will go, I don't know, to see the car doctors or whatever – but our health system needs more money, and we haven't talked about that yet about how we're going to get it. We won't get it there at some cigarette tax. These are things that we will unfortunately not touch in the next ten hours, but I would like to touch them as soon as possible, because I think this would be the purpose of some interpretation, or else it will be just a sad pathetic pathetic theater by the end of this day. I would like to thank you for saying so, but for the end, I would just say that the United Left's SDS is clearly closing borders, the SDS, which would prefer to set up a fence around every local community, which is, I don't know, probably a statement of the year. But as for cars: I've been told that I have some Mercedes R, I don't even know what it is because I'm riding a train from your party because I fell into Parliament. Let’s put some space on everyone’s doorstep and start working seriously. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Dobovšek and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, Madam Minister, must be following us somewhere. I understand biological needs and will have to meet these needs better from now on, because it will need more energy than ever. Madam Minister, I will not tell you that you are guilty. I will not condemn you because there is no court here. This is the National Assembly. Interpellation is a constitutional instrument of the opposition. Of course, as a Christian Democrat, I will demand from you, Madam Minister, the responsibility, the personal responsibility that you have promised here, when you have sworn as Minister, not only to this assembly, but also to all citizens indirectly. It is a personal responsibility that, of course, I demand first from myself and then from all, officials and all others who are entrusted with a function. I will spend the next few seconds showing how we are Members online with our citizens or voters. Here's one thing that says to me: "Etyki" – that's the premier term, which means to my father – "the hearing aid broke and couldn't be fixed. The price of the new hearing aid was EUR 600, of which the insurance company covered just over EUR 300. Since he does not yet have the right to a new one, only after six years does he have the right to a new maid, I bought two new €50 online via internet sales." It is clear, then, that health care is controlled by the lobby and is due to such a case and many other health bills. This corruption must finally be abolished, stopped. So, 600 Euros one maid machine, you get via online sales two for 50 – the same functionality said the doctor. Just one case and the voice of citizens and citizens who probably do not assess that the health situation is, that the health system in this country is truly excellent. Why is health care such a sensitive debate and such a sensitive area? In a way, I understand and return to my personal responsibility that when the Minister swore here, in some way she also made the Hippocratic oath, because she covered such an important area. Why? Because health among our citizens is the most important value. One survey, which asked citizens what their greatest value was, and they could count three, showed the following: health. 93% of people presented health as the most important value. So we're one of the 20's chosen something else, not health. Next: family or family happiness 85 and a half percent, peace, security 52% and so on. That is why it is important that we talk about the health system, but not only do we say that we are also bringing solutions, as Prime Minister Miro Cerar has called us. But the solutions, this picture was shown by fellow Vertovec Jernej; what is red, these red Xs, these red crosses mean that it is not realized. There are ten laws here, numbered by my fellow Vrtovec, I will not repeat them, and virtually nothing has happened. Realisation, if all laws have the same weight, the same weight, the realization of 11% – of what the Government has set itself as a goal, not Nova Slovenija, the government itself wrote in the government's normative programme of work for this year and last year – a realization of 11%. And now the opposition will be quiet?Oh, my God! Yeah, that would be a mistake to keep the opposition quiet. As I used information and communication technology earlier, we started to introduce it into the health field when we were in the government's mandate 2004-2008. I recommend reading the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. Very interesting. At that time we said modernisation of the healthcare system eHealth and in the eHealth Development Programme Plan we recorded for 2006 and in 2008 we provided expenditure in the budget. Now I thank you for coming, Madam Minister. Nice to meet you. I understand that, of course, you also have obligations and needs beyond listening. Madam Minister, where are we today with the eHealth project? What stage is he in? When it will be introduced 100%, although it will probably be difficult to answer because it is a system that is developing and will never be fully introduced. And what is most interesting – how much money have we paid taxpayers for the eHealth system from the start of this project? At that time, in this already-called resolution on national development projects, we have also written down that we will implement a network of emergency medicine centres. That is when the emergency centres began, in the 2004-2008 mandate, and I am glad that Slovenia has received quite a lot of funding from the European Union. I think it's over 40 million euros. Somehow I understand the Minister that he has difficulty not having political support within the entire coalition. Individual Members, individual champions of the parties who compete, who will kill the minister more than they say they will, and of course the smaller coalition parties, as the champion of Desus says, this law, namely, the Law on Pharmacy, has collapsed. That's wrong. This is not a fair relationship, but will not be regulated by New Slovenia in coalition relations. You probably don't expect that. And of course, people who are waiting today don't know how long it takes for certain medical procedures or examinations. What I don't understand is that some of the smaller coalition parties say, we will support the Minister today, give her time until the end of the year. O.K., by the end of the year, it's like, what, 74 days, it's probably, like, 40, 50 days. Then what? Yeah, and then they said from smaller coalition parties, and then we'll start. Probably, I don't know, by making laws, probably not by interpolation, because apparently nobody wants to go to the election today. You know what I'm talking about. I also believe that the Minister may have a good concept, but he has problems with smaller coalition parties again, because it is easy for me in this country, if we want to adopt some reforms, where we would give private initiative more options – now you will say, yes, look, this is for the privatisation of health, and you have mistaken those who think so. New Slovenia is exclusively for the public health and public education system. That is what we will talk about when the time comes — public education. We are therefore in favour of the public health system, but a private initiative needs to be given more opportunities. But the country really has to build, build walls for different clinics and so on. Why don't we just leave it, like, a private initiative? See, for example, the example in the municipality of Tišina – Madam Minister, you certainly know this – an excellent example of public-private partnership. Municipality of Silence and private doctor. It's practically where it came from, I call it, some kind of microclinic. Now I don't know if the minister has allowed them to do as much as they want to do or if she'll give them this permission to speak at home. At the same time, a building, a monumental building, over 200 years old, was still preserved from a castle that was a ruins. Until we change our minds in our country, that is, without thinking reform, cosmetic corrections to the legislation will only bind to the wound, but not the right surgical approach with definitive therapy. I think we need a mental reform and only then will it be possible to reform the health system. And not to suppress a private initiative that is somehow protected even in the Slovenian Constitution. Someone used to do a comparison with the U.S. health system. Oh, my God! That really doesn't work. In the United States, 50% of the people don't want the country to get involved in their health care, but of course it's the other way around; we all kind of expect health care to be a matter of some kind, automatic. Of course, when you talk about the opinion of the World Health Organisation, how our health system evaluates our superlatives, then I suggest that you convey this opinion to all those in waiting lines. You know, in September of this year, that data is from last month, 16 thousand 957 people were waiting in front of specialist ambulances, more than a waiting period allowed, and that 27 thousand 178 patients were waiting for other health services, more than a waiting period, totaling 44 thousand 135 people. Now, you tell these people what the World Health Organization thinks about our health system. Just tell them that, and then test how this will affect their health! And yes, if the OECD tells us, turn it off – now I design it in my own way – turn off the socialist health model, then it is really time to shut it down and modernise it. We have written some solutions for modernizing health care in New Slovenia and we have been waiting for 8 months in front of the Minister's door to accept us, to explain our concept in at least one hour or half an hour. Or at least we have some sort of solution that the minister could use and we would support. Not to say that what I am saying is invented by the opposition or by the right block of the opposition or by New Slovenia, I will go to the European level. Last July we adopted a declaration on the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. According to Dr. Brglez, the President of the National Assembly, this was the greatest success of the National Assembly in 2015. I'm very proud of that. I agree with Dr. Brglez here. Why am I talking about this? Because we are members of the European Union, and this is our basic, fundamental and political framework, but the institutions of the European Union, specifically the European Commission, recommend to us for 2016 and 2017 that the State prepare or the Government prepare and implement a reform of the long-term care and healthcare system in order to ensure greater cost efficiency and long-term sustainability of accessible and quality care. The pension reform must also be adopted by the end of 2017. We already know everything about demographics, so pension reform. You can criticize me, what I said in this brief debate, you can also criticize the European Commission and say that the Brusselsians have no idea, but you must do so by withdrawing last July's Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and changing our basic value and policy framework. I don't think that's gonna work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Marijan Pojbič. Here you go, Dr. Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! For several hours I have been monitoring the session and I find that we have a conflict of two views; a view from above and a view from below. The minister's view from above shows that the situation is good; even more, we are better than Austria's neighbour, so there are no problems. The view from below shows a completely different picture. Every day we have a whole series of complaints, a whole series of problems and a whole range of corruption indicators at all levels. What am I reading for the Ministry? I see a reactive approach; when the problem arises, we start looking for solutions, not proactive action. If there is, however, it is in the health sector that it is better to prevent than to treat, and this principle should be adhered not only to the Ministry of Health, but also to all other ministries. We've lost two years to analyze the situation, and we've paid dearly for it. These analyses have already been made and should only be used. Where are the other steps? The Ministry says it has a vision. It is necessary to create policies, as already pointed out by Comrade Duck. Based on strategy policy and action plans. We can get somewhere with this. We are ahead of the countries that followed us after the independence of Slovenia; a better standard, higher living conditions and a better life for people in these countries. Where are the biggest problems? Waiting species. Of course, first you increase the waiting lines, then you invest some money, you cut them, you go back to the starting point, and you brag about how you've improved the waiting lines. Where is the central register that would establish the actual state to see why these waiting types are? Are they to serve, or is this a real problem? Staffing at all levels – this is the basis of all activities; taking responsibility and carrying out individual institutions. Public procurement. The problem is so acute that we even had to set up a special commission of inquiry in the National Assembly. For just one small segment of the whole issue of public procurement! Communicating with each other. The Minister says she communicates very well with all those involved in the reforms and with the Ministry of Health. Why, then, do we have regular visits in our parliamentary groups from the unions to the Medical Chamber and others who say that this communication is not available? There is no precise distinction between public and private, as he has already pointed out by his colleague Horvat. Accurate delimitation of what we get in the public sector and that we can establish the real private sector that we do not yet have. But we're talking about concessions. How is the strategy and policy towards demographics in Slovenia, because we know that age structure is increasing? Here I also expect a lot of help from pensioners' parties to participate creatively in solutions. The external environment of Slovenia – doctors are fleeing abroad. What about the patients? Patients also flee abroad. We collect stoppers so patients can go abroad. If Austria is so better, I am interested in data on how many Slovenes are being treated in Austria and how many Austrians are being treated in Slovenia. If our system is better than Austrian. And, of course, corruption at all levels, which has already been mentioned many times. However, the protection of those who report should be established. There's no such thing as protection. The pressing issue has also been raised several times by the Commission to prevent corruption. What's alarming? It is alarming that instead of the Ministry, problems are solved by other institutions – police have begun to solve the waiting species problem through house investigations. The Court of Auditors has repeatedly warned, but there are no changes. How the public procurement system is, how the money is shared and everything else is reviewed by the Court of Auditors. And, of course, there are also investigative journalists who point out health errors, NGOs, trade unions and the Medical Chamber, which have taken care of the problem itself. What do we want? We want to restore the reputation of Slovenian health care and ensure that the patient receives the desired rights and is adequately cared for. All of this begins with the recruitment: responsible people and responsible supervision. What kind of defense mechanisms do we see at the Ministry? In recent days, we have witnessed crisis communication, which shows how good the situation is and on the one hand, those who, under the influence of crisis communication, have all the information and only those who show positive effects, and on the other hand, we have investigative journalists and opposition who point out mistakes. But they can't get all the data, so one side is stronger in this battle. Exposure to lobbying in a negative sense – the minister highlighted what lobbying was like and what the word lobby means; the word lobbying is meant by those fishing in the mud. It is a group of pressure, and if such groups are, then it is only right that the position exposes them, because these people do not put pressure on the opposition, the opposition has no means to give them to the lobby. If we all agree at the end and believe in crisis communication, we can see that the health situation is very good, that we are better than the neighbouring countries, and that is that view from above. However, I am assessing that there are still problems and that if we do not solve them, they will only be bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Saša Tabaković. Here you go, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman. Today we have a political act ahead of us, an interpolation that will be the autumn stop all the way there until November, which is, in fact, nothing bad; the problem is that it takes all of us energy, especially because we do not see the right arguments on the other hand. Are we satisfied with the answers and reasons and the reasons we have today on the table offered by the speaker of the interpretation? Of course, on the one hand, those who do not know the functioning of the health system or, if they are not in good health, can quickly assess that there is something wrong with them or that they are not satisfied with them. Those who deal with this and are on a daily basis or on reports given by the ministry and committees that have systematically referred to more or less of the same problem in the past year, only that every time we have a different address, if not a vein support, if not a waiting line, we have everything else, but a clear explanation, if we draw the line, is that we always talk about the health system. At the outset, let me say that Mrs Godec, the initiator or proponent, who represents and leads the interpretation today, has repeatedly yelled at the entire hall to have certain answers, who is actually the one who unlawfully grants concessions so that we do not get lists, I don't know what else and so on. But interestingly, in 2006, when the government of Janez Janša was and when Dr Bručan was Minister, and when the night of special concessions, which were awarded in one night, was 50 concessions, and to this day we do not really know why concessions were granted at that time in one night, no one wonders why and how they were awarded. Why do I mention these 50 concessions – because it is evil and the origin of the problem that we still have today and until we solve it with a law that we have more or less in preparation and we will get it into the parliamentary procedure to put an end to this agony once and for all forever. On the night the concessions were granted, Dr. Bručan observed and explained to the entire Slovenian public the following day that he did so in order for these doctors to be able to apply for a medical check-in, for an invitation to tender for the award of programmes. Look, something's not working out. It simply does not work together, especially because we know that at the time, out of 50 concessions, 9 concessions were awarded only at the Clinical Center, where it comes from – in fact, he awarded concessions to his colleagues. What exactly is the problem when he awarded concessions? The problem is that he did so without a call for proposals. At the same time, this minister had in his drawer the Law on Public-Private Partnership, which kept him so long that he first awarded concessions. It was not until next year that he came out with the law, which clearly put things on his head, namely, no more concessions without an invitation to tender. And now we come to the point that I went to the very beginning – that's when Godcheva asks why and where those concessions that were granted illegally. She knows what she's talking about! They have been unsettled since we have adopted the Law on Public-Private Partnership. All ministers, including Bručan, who violated the European legal order, and all the rest of the Slovenian legal order, are, in fact, in violation of their award of concessions without a call for tender. I do not recall the Minister issuing invitations to tender at a secondary or tertiary level to date. If anyone can say it, please apologize to him publicly, come in day by day with that word. Which minister did this? Shall I list all the ministers from Bručan on?Oh, my God! Mrs Godcheva has an answer in her hand, who has violated this legal order. And don't be a fool in this room and ask someone to say something. We all know that the problem is that there is someone, of course, now that he has to limit these concessions. And that's the problem with this interpretation, that we have a political discourse where we are really talking about non-truths. Are we going to another lie?Oh, my God! Let's go because I'm glad I listened to four hours of stupidity. In short, if I mention what Godchev said, we only have a pilot project for waiting species, where only two hospitals are involved. And he says this pilot project sucks because there's not a major clinical center involved in this pilot project. I'm sorry, but right now, whether Godcheva doesn't know what a pilot project means, which I doubt, or whether it's a deliberate deception. This pilot project, by the way, includes the following public health institutions, not two hospitals, but several more public health institutions. One is the hospital Celje, the other is the hospital Izola, then the hospital Valdoltra, Health Home Celje, Health Homes Izola, Koper and Piran, three more. Medical treasury and the National Institute for Public Health are also involved. What will this pilot project do or what is the objective of this pilot project? Yes, for God's sake, a pilot project means nothing more than to take a smaller sample, in fact to make a complete analysis, which is more or less clear, what it will actually do, which is to transmit data on the basis of prepared questionnaires on waiting types, internal revision of waiting lists, analysis of data collection, development of a proposal for action for a specific waiting type, guidance and criteria, which is uniform for evaluation itself, introduction of action on a specific waiting type, design of model and management of waiting periods, thematic focus on the interested professional public and other activities on the basis of the prior agreement itself. On the basis of this first part of the pilot project, we will only be able to access the data that we are talking about all the time and today is a central part of the discussion, at least in the first part of the interpretation. My dears, don't look at me like a pregnant sheep; we're talking about waiting species and we need to talk about how we can really get those results. If I continue, what's important is that when we talk about waiting species, we have repeatedly asked ourselves the following questions. This is, for the first time: Who and what does all affect waiting species? The waiting lines are affected: first of all, what we all know most of the time, and we have heard more than once today, is money. Can money really solve all the problems? You know, even the proponents, that already in your mandate period, when you actually had a waiting species problem, you couldn't solve the waiting species problems with money; absolutely not because they are not the only factor. The second reason most often present is the organization of institutions or the operation within the institutions themselves. The fact is that none of the institutions in the Slovenian space are the same as living matter and simply have some of their own, I will say, in a way consistent patterns, how to actually work in certain certain work processes, so that we can reach the final completion of some method of dealing with one patient from the very beginning to the end. The other thing that matters is whether we have enough staff. First, we talk about doctors and then we talk about health teams. Several times in the last six months, we've had a discussion on whether we have enough doctors. We talked about the lack of doctors in certain areas of specialization. Who's responsible? We keep asking ourselves, already in the first half of the interpretation, who is to blame and who really has to answer for it. You have recently received all the letters from the Medical Chamber addressed to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee on Health, received by all members of the Health Committee and, at the same time, by all Members, which means that I can really talk to all of you about the relevant letter because you all know it. Well, what does this letter really say? This letter says in particular that the Medical Chamber responded for the first time to the debate of Members on the Committee on Health, because the President, by the way, was not even on the Committee on Health, and then had to reply in writing, and, of course, gives certain reasons and indications as to what they are not actually guilty and, of course, boasts of what is good done by the Medical Chamber. What am I actually talking about? To make it clear to all those who do not have this document before you. I am talking about that the Medical Chamber has continued to be responsible with the public authority to specialise since 2003 and 2002, pardon, 2003. Of course, in this letter they say that in reality they have been doing everything fast and accurate; more than that, since 2003, they have been granting significantly more specializations than they had previously been awarded. Of course, they're confusing a few data, but now I don't know whether, on purpose, or simply President and Mrs Beović, who is co-signed, they didn't know what they were signing, or whether I just don't know where they got those graphs in those papers, because there's just one data that doesn't go together. But you don't get the data together. In fact, they say we get 350 new doctors in the specialization system every year. I don't know where they got this information, but if we go to see how many doctors are getting into college every year at Ljubljana and Maribor, we'll get it, and if we say that everyone has graduated and everyone has successfully completed education, that no one is being released, that is, I'm taking into account the full quota presented and if I go to the exact data, 88 were accepted in 2016. Let's just say 88 will actually graduate. So let me tell you, the last five years are 88, 87, 89, one plus, up and down, they're changing these numbers. It's in Maribor. In Ljubljana, however, there is medicine in the field of dental medicine, and 155 in the last year 152 in the field of medicine. In short, this number is moving somewhere. And if I add this together, it can't be 350. I don't know where they got this. Of course, we're talking about so-called ones here – they call them, not me – they're imported doctors. But these imported doctors aren't enough to get 350 doctors every year. They keep talking about this one and the same number. So something just won't hold up, especially not because in the graph they're saying how many specializations are being given, they're saying that by 2022 this number will be literally doubled, or sorry, once again, it's going to be, times two, and that we're really not going to have these problems anymore. But if we're gonna have more doctors, we're gonna have to have a bigger one. So we have a problem on the other side. What does that mean? Yes, if we want to solve the problem on waiting lines with human resources solutions, it will take not one year, not two years, not three years, but at least six years. Yeah. Well, what can we do today to reduce waiting lines? In two years we can certainly reduce species, and in six years we can get them to the practical minimum of what we want. So to expect someone to save waiting species in one year is practical, at least for someone who knows it, in fact, because of some political points, because it creates some artificial climate, which he knows is not really the case. Otherwise, we all know together in this hall; if you break it for 25 years, you can't fix it in one or two years. You just can't because there are some natural laws, how you can handle things. So if I keep going. What matters to us. Today you're all talking and talking about numbers. I must say that although my colleague Vrtovac is not in here, he had a lecture where he taught from two or in fact used only one from 2016 because he used the latest data, national monitoring of waiting periods. I have to say that he was very clever when he was there explaining and doing comparisons of what we have today in Slovenia. He didn't say anything new, he didn't say a word about how to solve this problem, but he said we had waiting lines. But, in fact, let us ask ourselves something else — how and when did we come up with this national monitoring of waiting times? We don't really have that information for the first time. 1st of 2014 In 2010, 16 February, the then government or ministry ordered a public invitation to tender for the eProcurement area, of which you are well aware, that we later experienced great criticism and fiasco from the Court of Auditors, because it has in fact warned that we have been dragging all this agony for so many years and we do not have a proper eHealth. At that time, the title of this call was, if you remember the establishment and maintenance of information support for collecting data from local waiting lists and monitoring waiting periods – a short version that does not bother you. In short, it was not until then that the procedure that we had actually accomplished came to an end only from the first time. 1. that we have launched a computer application and a central register – about which colleague Dobovšek, who is no longer among us – has started to establish it. Actually, now it's a problem. You know that every such list you make for the first time has some credibility, when you start recording for a few years, and you actually start to identify all the elements of methodologically, what it really means, and it's actually more and more this thesis that I've been talking about on the board many times, and that's that this list that we have before us today about waiting types doesn't really give reliable data. Because we will only be able to have reliable data when we have very precise e-expressions and the actual decommissioned waiting types. What does that mean? This means nothing more than that all those who are really imaginary and are in the excesses that the police are hunting today, all those who are dead are still on the lists, all those who are, I'll say, one way or another, because they want to be, and they don't even know that they don't need this expertise anymore, because they saved it in some other way or they just decided not to wait in line anymore. And more importantly, all those who are needlessly on those lists will fall off those lists. In fact, the early results of the pilot study show that people or individuals who are misdirected are actually standing in these waiting lines. What does that mean? That we do not really have a real picture of these waiting types, and that if we really want to know where the money is, we need to have a clear picture. This is what some people say must be a clear strategy and a goal, how we will reduce it. What am I trying to say? My dears, whether you accept it or not, this is the first minister who has fully approached the entire project of reducing waiting species. I know your ears hurt because I'm telling you this, but these are the facts. That's the facts. What did you do during your term of office? You threw away money, but the species are even longer today than they were in your time. You didn't do anything! That doesn't mean it was bad because you gave the money, but there were no other measures. While Bručan was giving money, on the other hand, he distributed the concession in his mind, just as it had been, or as someone on the phone called him, and it made him angry that he would like to have a concession that day. What's the problem? Because when he gave concessions, my dears, on the other hand 470 million money fell out of the programme because public health institutions were no longer able to carry out certain activities. That's what we're talking about, and today you're wondering where we have the problem in Slovenia today! It's not just your problems to understand each other. Far from it! The problems that have arisen in all governments over the last 25 years are mainly due to the fact that the non-systemic solution to this waiting species problem has indeed been addressed. Here we have the original sin because no one, because of political egoism, knew that it would take too long and perhaps not even be able to achieve it in his mandate, did not want to do so. And today, of course, you want to have results on the tray in one year! My dears, it won't work. And it is also true that people and Slovenes should be told: in one year, in two years waiting rows cannot be solved. I know this is hard to listen to, but it just doesn't work that way. In addition, the question is whether we are satisfied with health services in Slovenia? Some of you have said this today, Mrs Godcheva has repeated many times, everyone more or less repeats, with the health system or doctors we are pleased. I'll tell you today, in principle, yes. But once again, we have doctors who suck, and that's catastrophically lousy, who should have their license, but let the doctors do it in their own kind. However, it will take some time for doctors to realize that they are doing themselves harm because these black sheep leave among their species, and they have this problem, not us, because we are not even qualified to evaluate them. However, if you have read the Saturday Annex, you will see an interesting article that is very average in the sense that it says a lot of things that it holds, but it is very confusing. In fact, the journalist describes; in today's last Saturday annex, Dela really describes her life when she was in distress and then some other cases, how and what is happening in Slovenian medicine. I'm talking about this article. It lists a few examples, including what is very important – and among other things this pilot project also notes – how much money is thrown into the trash because in primary health care where the general doctor accepts the patient, he processes it and then sends it with a guide to a specialist and this specialist again for exercise, for his good sense repeats all the investigations already made by someone on the primary level. Not only did we throw money out the window once, but it's simply because he doesn't believe it, because he's convinced he has to have fresh results, or for some third reason that we don't understand here, but someone has to explain them to us. There's a lot of money going on here. On the contrary, we have also heard several times today that we have good primary health care and will need much more work and even better to improve or invest much in it. Because the fact is, if we work hard in primary health care, there will be fewer waiting rows on secondary and tertiary, because we can solve a lot of problems already on this level. This, of course, is a process, my dear, that lasts and lasts for quite some time. What is the degree of Slovenia in terms of achieving some quality? I hope to say that we are in some golden middle of Europe, far from being the worst. But I'm sorry, but in this House we are even world champions in contempt of the health system. Sorry, this is where we do the most; of course, because we do it, journalists do it easily with even greater joy and then everyone finds one of their bad experiences and then we just give it up and the health system is up, according to this logic. Sorry, that's not true. I myself have visited a doctor at least four times a year for 30 years. And I can tell you, doctors are not only good in Ljubljana, but everywhere in Slovenia, and here is also one of the reasons why we have waiting types. We all want to have a doctor, if we can, in front of my house, but if you could come to our house, it would be the nicest thing ever. But on the other hand, we need to know that the choice that Slovenians and Slovenians have so that within 24 hours we can reach our general doctor, not every country. Sorry, he doesn't have that luxury. We're to a certain extent even, I can say, spoiled. But that doesn't mean that we want to go any worse, far from that, we need to stand up for a comprehensive system, and here is this key problem that some people see. I agree with Godče in one thesis when, of course, he claims and says, "Concessionaries are not pure individuals, but are part of the public health system. But only here when we make a dot, but Mrs Godčeva has her model concept of what this health system will look like, and I have my concept. Is that something wrong? Not at all. This is nothing wrong, just, excuse me, so far the system is still in place in democracy, so that most will decide what concept we will have, of course, in agreement and agreement with some social agreement. For the time being, most in the Slovenian space still support the public health system and I see no reason why some subtlely, we subtly push forward this story, which is called privacy, and we mix a little with concessionaires and we already have a story here. Sorry, this instinct is very strong, I see it very much and more, I tell you very loudly, personally, I'm not talking about doctors, I'm talking about the Medical Chamber, I'm talking only about the management of the Medical Chamber, they're very connected to you, the proponents. Very, because it is going, unfortunately, with a hand in the hand of a number of moves and activities that we had the opportunity to watch today. That is why this interpolation is one very cheap and cheap interpolation, which, of course, will have its famous epilogue with the vote that we are going to make tonight. But despite this vote, I tell you, you're not going to make it. That's definitely not the way it is. If you want to and when you always repeat that you want to work together and that you want to follow the opposition proposal, come with proposals, but with concrete proposals that go into the concept, not the setting of new concepts. Today we've heard another thing that's interesting. You keep talking about the downfall of the Pharmacy Act. Can anyone please tell me where this marriage fell? Who's ever talked about it? We have not yet come to the debate on the Pharmacy Act, and we are all here discussing it as if this law is no longer in place. For the first time in a long time, the legal and legal service was very badly and fundamentally abused in the National Assembly. There was talk of a law-law service that hadn't come to the fore. She couldn't even give her opinion. Only a proposal from the opposition and a proposal from the chairman of the committee came forward. And that's all. What did we do? I'll say it again. We have only postponed the period of the Pharmacy Act for exactly one month and in one month we will have another debate. If, of course, the President of the Committee on Health is very soon to present the elements of the public presentation of opinions, otherwise I do not know when we will experience this public presentation. Unless he's got a fig in his pocket and he's gonna be pulling this agony for a few more months. But I almost doubt that I would do that, because I believe that he has very fair intentions and that he will go sincerely into the adoption of the Law on Pharmacy, especially with the proposals of the amendment. Let me finish. Minister, your task is more or less clear and very difficult. You have a burden, which is called, in fact, on your ministry lies the full responsibility of the government, whether it will be able to prove in this mandate also within Parliament and the Slovenian public that we are essentially moving forward. Personally, I believe that very much. You have a very big challenge ahead of you. You still have the opportunity to invite the opposition, no matter what they suggest. Let them say it. Let them do it again. Art isn't about saying no to someone, art is about hearing someone; it's about accepting them or not, but it's about concepts. This is, of course, a matter of decision on developments. Good luck, Minister, and you still have our help on our side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. A representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I can't answer that part because I was absent from the hall because of the things that, as they say, had lunch. But this does not mean that Mr Jani Möderndorfer has been in the National Assembly since 2011, when he was in opposition to Mr Jankovic, then to Mrs Bratusek in coalition and ruling party, then to Mr Bratusek in opposition and he certainly smells of coalition and went to SMC. And so are his opinions on which minister is doing well or not doing well. At the beginning, when he was still in opposition to Mrs Bratušek, the minister of course was not doing well. Today he is working perfectly, today he has his support and, as he mentioned, as we have repeatedly discussed on the committees, colleague Jani said at the first hearing that he would implement and that he could carry out the reform if he had the support of the President of the Government. This support of the Prime Minister's Government seems almost 100% to me, but I would like to stress again, but to this day, the Minister has unfortunately failed to do what is expected of her. I think that you have also made clear in the coalition that you expect immediate action from it and that two and a half years have been sufficient introductions and that you now want to act. I agree that in such a period of time, you cannot cancel waiting periods and say that the previous ones who had the same short-term measures that the Minister has today, that is, money in waiting periods, have thrown money aside because there were no systemic solutions and there were no cases cleared. What's the secretary doing? Money throws away at you because she gave back money without regulating things systemically without clearing out waiting periods. Before she started, she gave up the money. And you say when we have these eTravels arranged, when we clear the waiting periods, then we can act. Yeah, well, then you keep that money, and then you do the specifics. That's exactly what you're saying. You're reading the former minister. Today, I am now pleased to hear that Mr Bručan has given 50 concessions overnight and I expect, once again, an application to the relevant authorities and those concessionaires to sanction. Now stop talking, now that's enough! I don't know, it's the thieves themselves. Punish them. You've got all the power! The coalition has all the power. Do it. It's nice to talk, but give it to me, buddy, do it. I agree, there are bad doctors in the system, just like there are bad teachers in the system like there are in the system, I don't know, bad workers and so on. And let the system protect that. That's 5% of the bad doctors, for example. 2013, house examinations with doctors – what happened? Nothing happened! These 5% of doctors or these doctors black out and then someone can talk about the driving park. So far, we have not sanctioned this because the law enforcement authorities do not work. And you have rejected the recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Minister and the Government ask the competent authorities to speed things up. No! No! None of this can be done. It is that those few percent, those bad doctors, black out or in all areas, black out all those who do good. That's a mistake. You say that when concessions were granted, public health institutions could no longer do so. Yeah, but the concessionaires did it. But the concessionaires took over those things. And what's wrong with that? I don't see the bad. If I went to a dentist or a dentist first, I don't know if I have any problems with that. [[…]] That's my choice. I have a free choice; by the constitution, by the law, I don't know why I have the choice of a doctor. What's wrong with that? And even more so, we should have a free choice of doctors, which is not in certain matters. And the fact that the ZPS didn't give an opinion on the Pharmacy Act. Yeah, didn't you get an opinion in writing? The PPS gave an opinion. He put his opinion on 21 pages and you're saying that the ZPS couldn't express its opinion at all. He did! Paperwork, 21 pages. Don't say the ZPS had nothing to say. I'd say the same on the board. Well, colleague Jani, we're sitting on the same boards, the ZPS says the same thing as it says in there. If you have read this, then it is clear that the ZPS has given an opinion. And on the basis of that, there were requirements such as those relating to the Pharmaceuticals Act. I am pleased that today's initiative has come from your side to see the Minister working with the opposition. I've already invited her in public twice to present the laws in the opposition. She once gave me a nod and even said thank you for inviting me. Not even today has she ever been in opposition! Not once. I now hope that this will continue because it has just come from the coalition that the Minister will also come to the opposition to explain or present the law because some ministers are coming. I don’t know what the problem is — are they afraid of us? Are you, Madam Minister, afraid of the opposition? The rejection of another? Where did the Act of Pharmacy go? Yeah, he fell; he fell in the coalition. The Act on Pharmacy has fallen into the coalition. If not, once again, Madam Minister, I ask your opinion, your position with regard to the implementation of the representatives of Desus and these indications that Desus was not the one in the coalition, as well as the SD, who voted to withdraw the Act on Pharmacy's activities into a public presentation of opinions. The marriage fell in the coalition! When you agree within the coalition, it is the coalition that will either carry out or fail to implement health reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you, Miss Godec. Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, you wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u42	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President. Three things. First of all, the ZPS didn't come up with a word. You know that on the board and you misunderstood me, and you know that, and it also tells us whether the proposed amendments are in line with the amendments and the requirements that the ZPS has on the law. I'm saying that he couldn't define what he wrote, that's another; you know that there's always an opinion before, but the amendments are later. Second thing. Look, I strongly recommend that you stop where I've been, because this is my personal matter. But usually, you know, when you start with these things, I feel like you're out of content and you have to deal with me personally. So for the next time, don't get too busy with me, because I'm not going to solve your personal problem. But if you want, let me know, and I'll tell you how you can save him. Third thing that seems very important to me. When you mention proposals, you need to know that there is only one problem at all times, and that is that you need to be aware that you must follow the basis of the concept of the bill. To propose solutions that are diametrically opposite and break the complex concept, then you must understand that you have this right, but not then be disappointed and angry because it is not accepted, and then say that everything sucks. We may have the same goal, but how we will achieve this goal, each has its own view and possible steps. But the question is, is there even a path that can be fatal?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Prepare Mr Sasa Tabakovic and Mr Daniel Krivec. Mr. Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. You know, sometimes there comes a time when you don't know whether you'd laugh or what you'd do, because obviously in this House we're sitting people who understand things in a different way, very different. Apparently, there are people here who understand certain things in a different way, in such a way that they do not know what they originally meant and what they finally said. This is very problematic for people who obviously do not have a quality concept in place in life to know how a life course should be drawn, so you know at the beginning what you will do at the end of the month when you earned your salary with this salary. Today, Jani Möderndorfer spoke very vehemently for a long time, but if you would listen to his debate and compare it with those arguments recorded in the interpretation – and I would expect him to have already defended the Minister as her lawyer, so that you would try to provide a substantive answer to those questions that we have raised in the interpretation. I will go from one point to another, to the third point, to the fourth point, and quote them from the document so that Mr Jani Möderndorfer can really hear what this interpretation is based on. Because obviously – that's what I was going to say in the introduction – he lives in another world and another parliament. We are not all in the same room, he speaks one thing and does not answer when defending the Minister, to those questions that have been raised in the interpretation as fundamental. And yet, dear colleague Jani, I would never go down to a level as low as you do. Among other things, you said earlier — which I find very distasteful and extremely rude — that you said, "Don't let them see you as some kind of fucked-up sheep" — that's what you said. I'll take a look at the magnetogram and then I'll tell you exactly how you meant it. But I would just like to say: however you thought it, I think it was distasteful, and Parliament is not a place for Members to discuss each other in this way. And this, I think, is what the SMC, when you joined their parliamentary group -- and I'm going to make that very clear -- pointed the shot to the knee. As a result, she will lose at the next election a minimum of 15%. Go among the Slovenian people, and you'll see what they think about your debates at the National Assembly. I am a lot of them, and they say – you know what they say, Jani, and now I will tell you in your face – “We ask you nicely, but not Jani Möderndorfer, because we can no longer listen to him.” And that's amazing. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, Jani, look, I was quiet when you were talking, and I expect you to be cultural. If you don't know how to speak culturally in Parliament, at least behave culturally, because I think in all these years, as far as you've been in Parliament and wherever you've been, at least they've tried to teach you this way; I think at least Jankovic tried to, you just escaped from there, as far as I have information, you had to run away like that, but I'm not kidding, because I'm serious. Now we are going to one more thing, because it is Jani that I continue to conclude this debate with him and also answer some of the things with which he tried to mislead the Slovenian public. Among other things, he quoted these answers from the Medical Chamber, a letter sent by the Medical Chamber to all members, i.e. to all Members and Members of the National Assembly. But here's the one that didn't say what the Medical Chamber wrote, and now I'm going to quote what it said in this article, in this letter. She wrote: "We are aware that relations between the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and other medical organizations are not at the level of the necessary trust and partnership, mainly for reasons relating to the necessary structural changes in Slovenian health." I hope you read that, Mr. Jani. If you had read this, you probably would have made a lot of things clear, and you wouldn't just talk selectively from this letter about what you think is good, but what's crucial is silence, and that's deception, and that's bullshit. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am very pleased that we also have smart Members and Members in our Parliament – I expect all of us, of course – who are particularly prominent at least in the part where we are talking about health issues and who are also most invited to discuss this issue in a qualitative manner. This is certainly a colleague of Tomaž Gantar, who is Vice-President of Desus and Chairman of the Health Committee and also served as Minister. Look what the gentleman said; and it would be good if the coalition read it. Read that for yourself. The minister has to read this too, and it's only right to read it. I hope you did. Look what my colleague Gantar said: "I'm afraid Milojka Kolar Celarc has also gone to a dead end." Nina Knavs was the one and Tomaž Skala – this is about the Diary, I think it's the Diary. "The debate on interpretation against Milojka Kolar Celarc, tabled by the SDS, should be taken by the Minister of Health and the government coalition as an incentive, notes the president of the State Health Committee and Vice-President Desusa Tomaž Gantar. “If the Minister of Criticism, whether from the opposition or coalition, understands only as speculation and conspiracy, this time will be lost.” In this way, it will also be difficult to implement the reform, in the view of the former Minister of Health of Gantar, who is considered to be the most acute critic of the current management of the coalition health sector. In Desus, however, they agreed to extend the deadline for key changes, and Kolar Celarčeva will be supported tomorrow." Two more questions followed the question: "How many more chances do you think health reform would be adopted within this government's mandate?" Mr Gantar replied: "I hope that Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc has taken seriously the announcement that in December she will publicly present the bill on health care and health insurance, but I am deeply concerned. We haven't even talked about this key law within the coalition. At this point, we do not even know the basic direction of the solution, and the path from public debate to reception is long. There are a lot of ways to change insurance in one way or another, as confirmed by the analysis by experts from the World Health Organisation. Their findings have weight – no one can tell them that they were written on behalf of capital interests." And another question: "At the beginning of the government mandate, you thought that delaying reform due to waiting for this analysis was a mistake. Have you changed your mind?" Mr Gantar replied: "I still believe that we have missed the period that has been most favoured by the changes needlessly. More than two years have passed, and in the second half of government mandates, as the elections approach, it becomes increasingly difficult. But now the document is available, the findings are no surprise. But the best thing to do is to take it as an aid and an argument for change. It's going to depend a lot on how the minister can use it." My dear coalition, I find it very difficult to add anything to what Mr Gantar has said. This is absolute truth, these are absolute facts and this stands. For this reason, we have also tabled interpellation, because the minister and this government speak one thing, they write one, they appear before the press, they show themselves before the screens, and they do something completely different. In fact, at this point, anyone sitting here in the National Assembly, if he wanted to be objective, would say that the Minister had really done her job in line with our expectations, would be lying. That's what today's interpolation was about. In her opening address, the Minister said: "I will" – what we wrote as arguments for interpolation against the Minister said: "I will answer these dilemmas with surgical precision." Which we have highlighted here. Now I'm wondering how the secretary could have said that she was going to do it with surgical precision if she was never a surgeon. How?Oh, my God! Somebody explain this to me. So, someone's deceiving. Someone's making a fool of us to sit here like an asshole and watch — you know? But now I don't know, and then I went to see if the lady had ever actually performed any surgical procedure. There's no record of that. Thus, he is abusing us who are sitting here, and misleading Members and Members and Slovenian people. Interesting what she said in her opening address — the following. She said this time's interpolation was dramatic. But I am telling you, of course, it is dramatic, it is absolutely dramatic, because otherwise they would not have invested it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The situation in the health system is dramatic, and that's why we put in the interpolation, and if the minister herself found out that she was dramatic, then that's what she is. And I'll tell you why she's dramatic. Especially because of the incompetence and inaction of the Minister and her team, she is dramatic because of the corruption in the health system, because of the deterioration of health accessibility in health care, she is dramatic because the vast majority of patients are not treated equally because those who have money can pay their checks, those who do not have money cannot pay their checks and have to wait in waiting lines! They're not treated equally, they're not, anyone can say what they want. We don't need this kind of public health. At the same time, I would like to say: please don't tell the untruth that, as Jani tried before, if there is some interest in the background, I don't know which one, especially he was looking at us and he thought of the SDS, of course, to dissuade public health and health care into private hands. It's a complete manipulation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always advocated public health care for our patients, our citizens and our citizens, just as we all do for our patients. Once again, it has been made very clear today that concessionaires are part of the public health network and have nothing to do with private health, except that they do not have to buy equipment from the state budget and everything they buy and thus burden the health care department. I hope that you understand this, everyone sitting here, and that you do not speak complete nonsense and deceive the Slovenian people. I hope you all understand what I'm talking about. Jani ran away, whether he was still here — yeah, he got away. That's too bad. Now I'm going to slowly explain why we've put the interpellation in. I think you've got plenty of time, take your time for real to tell you this, if it takes five times to understand why the interpolation was put in. So you don't fool around and talk in your head. Some of you, I must say, understood that. Those who get to know health, thank God. See, the first thing is, Slovenia, as an OECD member, is showing increasingly poor results in the quality of healthcare for citizens in the OECD annual reports. The current government is – I will quote all of this so that no one will accidentally say that I was wrong. "The current government has committed itself in the coalition contract to act in a responsible, constructive, coherent and transparent manner to solve social problems and to seek the best solutions for the individual, for individual social groups, NGOs, the economic sector and the country as a whole. In the field of health, the Coalition has promised to correct the existing health system in the light of the strengthening of public health, to take into account its financial sustainability, with a view to maintaining the rights of as full a compulsory health insurance as possible and to clarify the separation of public and private health activities. Realistically, the Slovenian health system needs a comprehensive upgrade while maintaining public, solidarity and mutual health insurance. This is recognized by both the citizens and the professional public, who remind the Minister of the day-to-day of the anomalies in Slovenian health care. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc has shown that she is not ready for a comprehensive health reform. Despite commitments under the Coalition Treaty to prepare a new proposal for the Health Care Act, Health Insurance Act and the Health Action Act, the Minister did not present or prepare any of the above-mentioned laws. Neither was the Act on Pharmacy, which was discussed today. The deadline was September 2016, was rejected at a meeting of the parent committee now a few days ago. There is a major problem in the Slovenian health system. In addition to others who have accumulated under the rule of the current minister, there is also a lack of doctors of pediatry specialists, which the Ministry is aware of, but there is no response from the Ministry. On the basis of the prepared PUC network, there are currently 110 paediatrics missing in Slovenia, in addition to the fact that all the specialists who are still educated are already included in the network. According to the OECD 2015 data, 8.7% of the gross social product is spent in Slovenia for health activities, which is below the OECD average of 8.9%. With compulsory health insurance, we collect employees, single professions and pensioners EUR 2 billion 434 million and 68% respectively, with voluntary supplementary health insurance of EUR 450 million, 15%, and with payments from the pocket for health care, we allocate a circus of EUR 400 million, about 14%. Thus, 97% of the funds are collected by citizens with contributions and payments from the pocket, only 3% of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is committed to the budget, in particular to the Ministry of Health, which is the lowest rate among countries. Now we are going to touch on the issue that I think is very problematic, and that is corruption in health. That corruption is a strong safeguard of the health system and is also the cause of the increase in costs in health care, individuals employed in health care have been warned a long time ago. On 3 February 2016, the general director of UKC Ljubljana Brigita Čokl surprised the public at the 25th meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. She talked about individuals in health care who also go to the state's top representatives to achieve their own. I'm supposed to have experienced that myself. Many statements v. d. Director General of UKC Ljubljana have not been surprised about the same or similar matters in Slovenia for several years. And Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc is silent, and despite the promise that the matter will come to an end, she has not yet done so. The only thing left to do is to make promises, which is the only thing I've said in the first place, of course, that the Minister can do at this point. See, here you have a new scandal: UKC Ljubljana for two million overpaid heart valves. I hope you've read that. What were the actions of the Minister? What were the measures taken by the Government, the Justice Ministry and all those responsible for preventing corruption? She says she has zero tolerance for corruption and then scandal over scandal. Not to talk about human resources stories and so on. Then we have the waste of UKCL money, the "mixing" in gynecology, who are you ignoring Glajar and Kolarev? [[…]] You've probably read it. Nobody cares. Zero tolerance for corruption, ethics and morality. Yes, dear coalition, dear government, where are you? Where are the systems and subsystems in this society that you are monitoring right now? What are their tasks? What are they doing? Have they been able to do anything so far? It's nothing! Let's keep going. If the abuses in the UKCL are real and real - heads will fly? You must have read that, too. I hope you're reading a little because you're all looking at me as surprised as I fell off Mars. Here you see the names – Simon Vrhunec is supposed to still lead UKCL from behind. Mrs Meta Valentinič, you all know very well, Mrs Bojan Uranus and so on. I'm not going to read this detail what it says in here. It would be nice if you all read it, my dears. The question then really arises whether the Slovenian Democratic Party has done the right thing by filing an interpolation. I claim it is, Madam Secretary. And where else is the key issue? I think even if the minister resigns herself, the essential thing won't change, because the second and third-class management has been there for a hundred years. And they have everything in their hands, all the connections, all the different from God to Saint Peter. If we don't do something in this area and put new and different people there, this story can't be cleared up and solved, and anyone can say anything they want. I know Mr. Gantar would confirm that. I'm not saying they're all, but I know that God forbid anyone say they're all the same. Not even close. We still have some very honest people, but if in this area, as I have just said, we will not approach change, nothing will happen in this area. Because they live in another world, they live in the past, they live in a system that has long survived, and they don't want anything to be added, anything to change, because it pleases them. Because if you don't do anything, you don't have to answer for anything, and if you have a good connection, every once in a while there's a nice piece or some envelope in your pocket or whatever. Because if billions of EUR 200 million are almost – I don't know – these are some numbers that you can't keep up with me about – leaking out of the health budget, then it must be clear to everyone that there are very, very, very many corruption problems in here. Some, if you would go now brother all about what I was just talking about, write a lot about who those people are and how things are related to each other. If we have a government that has all the ministries under control, we have a coalition that can at any time adopt any kind of law – how can we not get to the bottom of this? I don't understand it unless someone's supporting them. Someone supports and deliberately does not come with any changes or comes with such changes to the National Assembly that are not acceptable, so that the situation remains intact and that all those who have pockets next to the set can also function normally and live as gods and buy I do not know where down, I have heard now – since I still have to check this information, I do not know what stories they are buying all in Primorska. I just can't talk right now because I don't have any clean information. But that's amazing. Since other colleagues will also like to talk, I would like to say this, the Minister certainly knows, she has read it for sure. Here writes North Korea in Slovenia, Milojka Kolar Celarc escaped questions from journalist Nova24TV. The question, however, is very interesting, which I will redecorate and put in place because it seems very important to me. One of the questions was Mr Cerar. The question came as follows: "Mr Cerar, how do you comment on the directive of the UKC Management Minister of Maribor that blood products should be purchased at the Institute for Transfusion, even though they are more expensive?" Of course Cerar didn't answer that question, and then there was an attempt to get the minister, and when the reporter wanted to talk to the minister, I'm going to quote what was written here: "Then the fugitive followed – they took the minister out of the hospital." She knows where she was when she visited. "Our journalist went to the minister, waited for her to stop talking, and asked her a question about staffing in health institutions. In that one, the woman standing next to the minister just grabbed her hand and said, "Go, go!" And took her out of the hospital. It's bizarre to the extreme. And it concludes this article: "And such people rule us." And that's what we're talking about today. Those who do not have the courage to face questions, facts, and truth. In view of the answers, the evasiveness and the escape last Friday, it becomes increasingly clear that the former cultural minister had a cultural minister, although I must put her here in a good sense now, because I very much appreciate her personally, I must say, indeed, because she is honest, Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, this Government is a prisoner of lobby. Mrs. Mlakar, you were very, very right. Both I and our Group of Members are trying to keep this very problem in mind in order to come out of this circle, where some of those behind us are ruling. If the Minister, who was the Minister, experienced this within this coalition, then it can be very clear to us all how things are within this coalition and this government. Dear Minister, I ask you to listen, Your Honor Minister, and now I ask you to listen. No, I'm sorry you won't be able to answer me otherwise. But I expect exact and specific answers, because I will insist so long that you will answer that question. Unlawful demands of the Minister for the purchase of blood products without the application of public procurement rules – twice addressed to the UKC Maribor. First request of 16. 2. 2016, addressed only to UKC Maribor. Second requirement of 3. 6. 2016, addressed to the Directors of Hospitals and Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine. On the basis of another requirement or instruction, as requested by the Minister, that all patients with the Slovenian Office for Transfusion Medicine, ZTM, conclude direct contracts, prepare and sign and send out to all patients a contract for the supply of blood products by which patients would buy blood products at unknown prices for an indefinite period of time. At unknown prices and for an indefinite period of time. Do you know what that means? Madam Minister, I request that you answer this question in concrete terms. Because I have quite a few documents that we'll also show you if that's necessary. The signature of such a contract would mean illegal, non-transparent and uneconomic use of public money for hospitals. If the operation of an individual hospital were controlled by the Court of Auditors, this could not assess the conduct of the hospital, inter alia, by the principle of economy as an ingredient of prudence, since the price is neither fixed nor definitive. Now I ask: Why, despite the opinion of the country's largest legal experts, are you still calling on hospitals to engage in illegal activities by calling on them to buy blood products directly from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine without public procurement procedures? The opinion of the legal profession is that this is legally inadmissible. Are you aware that there is a market in the care of hospitals with blood products? If you are aware that there is a market: Why are you giving instructions for non-transparent, non-economic and consequently illegal purchases of blood products in a specific provider? Question four. According to your information, the Institute of Transfusion Medicine has sent signed contracts for the purchase of blood products to all hospitals using blood products. According to our reliable information, these contracts have already been signed by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine. These contracts should not contain the basic parameters to be included in each contract, namely the subject matter of the contract and the price. Also, contracts are ready for an indefinite period of time — this is truly incredible, if that is true — I do not say that this is true. In this way, you imagine protecting public finances when hospitals are called upon to conclude contracts without the application of the Public Procurement Act, while these contracts do not contain the price of medicines. Nor do these treaties provide for the possibility of termination of the contract. If more Slovenian hospitals sign such contracts, we ask you to answer: What will you do when you realize that these medicines can be bought for significantly less money? In your opinion, how could such contracts be terminated, since they are concluded for an indefinite period of time? Do you foresee interruptions in such cases with the assistance of the courts? If yes: Why do you think this is good? Please provide information on how many hospitals have signed these contracts on your instructions to date. We ask you in particular for information on whether this contract has also been signed by Mr. Janez Lavre, V.D. Director of UKC Maribor. We have written information that the former Director, Mr Gregor Pivec, as one of the main reasons for his resignation, has cited your pressure on the purchase of blood products without a procurement procedure directly from the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine. Can you assess the role of the head of your government, Mr. Mir Cerar, who, despite your illegal pressures, in particular UKC Maribor, has been fully informed, fully supported? I also ask you for your comment on the state of the coalition, which also supports your work, which is at least in a certain part illegal – at this point I mean of course your pressure on buying blood products directly from the Institute of Transfusion Medicine of the Republic of Slovenia. Are you aware that if the hospitals have followed your pressure and signed contracts with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Transfusion Medicine for the direct supply of blood products without the application of the procurement procedure, without accurately recording in the contract the types of blood products, the subject matter of the contract and the prices at which purchases are to be made, these contracts are without legal effect? We conclude that because of your illegal instructions, hospitals have not implemented or implemented their calls for blood medicines. How will you proceed when you realize that contracts are made by hospitals with the Slovenian Office for Transfusion Medicine without a prior public procurement procedure without legal effect and other contracts are not available for the delivery of the hospital? What will be your instructions then? I think there are still a lot of things that I should list now when I'm arguing why we tabled this interpolation, and I think that my colleagues will do it further, because obviously some things need to be repeated very often that some in the National Assembly hear what we are saying. Madam Minister, for all these reasons, which I have now listed, I will vote in favour of the interpretation, but I expect you not to wait until the evening for any reasonable and responsible decision to make and, after the conclusion of my debate, to announce your resignation, because I think that for Slovenian health care, Slovenian patients and general for Slovenia and the Government of Mir Cerar, this is the only smart and responsible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u46	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague, a nice greeting from me as well! To begin with, I simply need to get my hands on my colleague Pojbič of the opposition. In fact, my colleague Pojbič, I think that colleague Möderndorfer has shown sufficient knowledge and competence to be part of the Modern Centre's Group of Members. Before you do so in your implementation, you attack my colleagues when you ask yourself who is worthy and at the same time you call for a culture of dialogue, I can only agree with you in this work that some self-reflexion is necessary for the quality work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Members, as well as of the parliamentary groups, but this means that this is also true for you and your parliamentary group. Today, of course, we are talking about health in general. When we talk about health, of course, we are talking about a plane that touches all of us, no matter what our professional orientation is, what our social status is, what the world view is, anyway. We understand the simple level of health as an ultimate value and as a community, we are extremely sensitive to it, as today's debate in the National Assembly has also shown. But just because we are so sensitive to this value, that of course means that this topic of health can be very quickly abducted for various manipulations as well as political pressures, and I think it is right for me to address some of them. There has been a lot of talk about waiting species, and I will also touch on these topics in my own debate mainly through the prism of digitisation, so, through the eHealth project. My colleague Horvat from New Slovenia said that in 2006 this project was part of their political agenda, which is of course very commendable. But I still have to give you some information. In fact, data from the Digital Agenda Scoreboard key indicators say that Slovenia was in fact at the time when Nova Slovenije was in the government, in the area of eHealth in the last cities. So if we want to talk about some prosperity of this project, then of course we can talk more about the prosperity that has taken place during this government. Of course, that's what the data shows, I'm not talking about. Of course, it is important to be aware that health services depend on money. This is no secret, the government has already committed a significant part of the funds, it is millions of dollars, and of course this will also prove in the next budget, which we will soon confirm in the National Assembly. And it's true, it's about some of what I'd call short-term solutions to the reduction of waiting species. At the same time, however, it should be stressed that when we are talking about some short-term solutions, it is also appropriate to refer to the availability of quality personnel and to the organisation of the system itself. Well, it's the health system itself. At this level, too, the ministry already has answers. However, it will certainly be necessary to optimise all these levels properly so that we can achieve a manageable long-term situation. In view of the fact that the debate also took place in part in the way in which the perpetrator was sought in some way. Here I have to agree with both my colleague Trčko and my colleague Möderndorfer that, of course, we are all guilty in some way, but in particular those who in the past have made, unfortunately, wrong decisions; decisions that have been taken superficially, ad hoc, without some proper vision. If I speak through the prism of eHealth, even through the prism of the government project, it seems to me that some appropriate approach is the only analytical approach that will not be hysterical in seeking a solution, but simply calm, sane, because it is really all that we have left if we want to, of course, this mess that the Minister of Health has been talking about, which, of course, is now knocking on our door, it is appropriate to step forward, to break it, however. I think that the only way that the Minister has chosen is that after all these years of different fluctuations affecting our health system, we can resolve a particular situation simply in the long run. And the digitisation of the health system or the eHealth Government project is certainly in this sense the right direction and it seems to me that it is very long-term addressing the issue of both waiting species and all those levels that I will count through my discussion. Why is that the right direction? Because eHealth is a simple ordering system that will make waiting types much more transparent and, of course, it will also simplify the system itself for issuing prescriptions and guides. What exactly does this mean for patients? eProcurement, of course, allows for electronic posting and faster online ordering for all operators, both at secondary and tertiary levels, which of course also means a thorough review of the health service providers themselves. Of course, in this way patients will have a much better choice of the preferred term, which will suit them according to their needs, but will also be better informed about this term. In particular, the eHealth system is important because it will allow for the transparency of actual waiting periods. Here I fully agree with my colleague Möderndorfer; that is, methodologies in the way waiting species are calculated are simply not accurate and are not perfect. The only thing we can refer to today is that we know that waiting types are and that they exist. Of course, with the introduction of a single ordering system, of course, we are likely to achieve a situation where we can actually plan much better measures to reduce waiting periods on the basis of actual and accurate data, as I have already said. As far as corruption is concerned, it seems to me that in fact the eHealth project is also somewhat appropriate to address this issue, which, of course, we have been witnessing for a long time, and especially now in a short time, because some of the procedures are still ahead of the Namreč law enforcement authorities, eProcurement will allow for a clear review and monitoring of pending patients in all health care providers. This is of course very important because, as the Minister has already said, as much as you want to try to make the system perfect, there is always that risk that is called a human factor. It seems to me that the e-Procurement system will also make this human factor of species crossing much more closely under scrutiny, which means that it will be very quickly recognised and also properly sanctioned. So when we are talking somehow in the debate that nothing is actually happening, it seems to me that support for this project is also a large part of addressing the problem addressed by the proposer himself, i.e. the issue of corruption, and I think this is certainly a good way for the public to have been waiting for a long time. It is true, however, that this system, a transparent system of procurement, may be somewhat less appropriate to someone else and probably does not smell this system as much as perhaps to the Minister of Health. The eHealth project will also, of course, reduce administrative costs. We know what kind of healthcare system we have and how much it really is, even if I speak as generally as some paperwork happens through this system. I think it is right that this way is also optimised, of course, by the means that are actually taxpayers. In fact, this will also improve the communication and exchange of data between healthcare providers themselves, which is certainly good for the patient. What does that mean? As has already been said in the discussions of various colleagues that in fact life expectancy has been longer and that, of course, medicine has progressed to the extent that for various chronic diseases we carry out polyclinical treatment, this means that more specialists are involved in some treatment. This will simply in practice mean that a patient who reaches another specialist will not have to reinterpret what his condition is, because it will be easy for authorised doctors to have access to the file, if you can say so, to the electronic files of a particular patient. And this is certainly very good and appropriate. When we are talking about digitisation of the health system, we would also touch on the e-triage project, where, of course, it is trying to reduce clinical risks and increase patient safety in the event of a large number of patients classified under the emergency treatment system under emergency medical care. Today, we talked a lot about whether it was appropriate for the secretary to take pictures in front of newly opened emergency centres. I think it is even more important for the Minister to ensure that the operational work within emergency medical centres is carried out as quickly as possible in an operational and prompt manner, if I may say so, and it seems to me that, in view of this project, I cannot doubt the Minister's intentions. Now, to conclude, I would like to say that, of course, I am aware that the Minister is, of course, under various pressure from both stakeholders and political groups, which has also proved to be true today in today's assembly, as soon as the word in any way introduces any structural changes to the health system. But that is why we cannot, of course, go beyond the fact that it is felt from the debate that is happening today, that we are somehow speaking indirectly, if not directly, about two different concepts, how health, which is supposed to be good for people, we represent. I myself will always give my voice to the Minister solely because, with her work, she has also expressed her support for quality public health, which, of course, also through various legal measures, as she has promised, will soon come into the procedure of the National Assembly, including this public health care being adequately upgraded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Tabakovic. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Franc Laj. Mr. Guilty, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister and to the other ministers who are in the National Assembly! Nice greetings to all your colleagues as well! Let me first say in the introduction that I will, of course, support this interpretation, but I will also explain why I support this interpolation. However, I must say that I cannot agree with the speaker who said that we are all responsible for this, that it is a collective responsibility. It's true that I may recognize myself because that's my name, but that's not how I feel. So I'd like to hear slowly that we're really talking about concrete things. Where interpellation is a normal instrument of parliamentary democracy, not to try to generalise things but not to read interpretations, read the Minister's response and make decisions on this basis. Now the Minister is practically not answering anything concrete in her reply. Even in the debate so far, there have been no concrete answers to specific questions from our proponent. Now, everything is getting smaller there, that what we're dealing with is the interpretation of one minister, why we're guessing, we need to talk about health in general, we need to look for solutions and so on. See, you have been in the government or in this Parliament for more than two years now, and you have not once supported the proposal to discuss health issues. Member questions have been asked several times to discuss this in order to find solutions, to help the Minister and the team come up with the right solutions, and there has never been a hearing in this National Assembly to support such an initiative to discuss this. Now that there are concrete problems that the Minister cannot deny, everyone in this debate turns back to this, let us discuss in general, because health is important for all, let us look for common solutions, we are all guilty of everything, we will all be guilty of everything. We obviously don't need this logic of the Ministry of Health because it's all going on, whether the Minister is doing something or not. I think that in this recent period you have actually found that you have a major problem here, that the Minister is obviously not doing as well as the opinion of the President of the Government and obviously at this point in the coalition. Maybe it was a little different yesterday. When we look at all of these data that are considered to be a portfolio covered by the Minister and what we read in the interpretation, we are not talking about absolute numbers, but we note that all trends during the time of this government and this minister are negative and that virtually no matter is not only improving, but no negative trend has even stopped. And now that I'm listening to my colleague from SMC, they're talking about some good wishes, preparation for changes, preparation for legislation that will be enforced, some measures that the Minister will take. I can buy all of this and respect and understand it, and I have nothing against the Minister personally, but when we look at the real data, no negative trend has yet stopped. And we're not talking about getting better. But if we compare the last months and even back, there are all these curves, it was beautifully shown with diagrams, columns and everything, I wouldn't repeat it, but none of these trends have stopped yet. After two years of rule, there is probably no more than a hundred days when the opposition cannot ask about anything. And when there is a problem, the minister brings the law to the National Assembly, for which there is not even a coalition. And in the end, it's our fault again that something doesn't come true. Like I said, I might even see myself in here the most, given my last name. We're reading the waiting lines. Now you are talking about everything that needs to be done systematically and that this needs to be resolved in a long time and that the Minister will prepare a strategy, a project to do so. We can buy this again, but at the same time we need to work on measures that fix these things on short notice. Without it, the minister did not do her job in this part. Even with regard to health and money losses, despite discussions on the Health Committee, despite all the media articles, despite the fact that the Minister is also aware of this and is talking about the pressures, there is virtually nothing done. So that's my second red card. Earlier, there was a talk that the ministry could not do anything – so let’s stop it, and health will work just as well. That's how you discussed it. But when we get back to some area of recruitment, where the Ministry has its powers, we find that some of the personnel are great, good, special, the Minister supports them, within a month, when she finds out that the public opinion does not support it, she turns the board, we replace some people, we set up others, clearly, until someone else writes something negative again. I think it's some kind of wrong signal even to the personnel we're trying to get into some kind of function. In this way, I think the ministry is losing credibility, especially the minister, and also the person who applies for one thing. So there is nothing better or nothing better than this famous new policy and ability-building or to the right places of the right people, which were pamphlets before the elections. In fact, it only goes from worse to worse, in all segments not only in health care. Before that, there was also a lot of talk about specialization. I also know cases, especially on the periphery, because the lack of doctors has been acute for a long time, and I cannot say that only the last minister is responsible for this or is taking on much of the blame, but much is said for all these two years about these specializations, that this is a problem, because individual doctors do not get a specialization, so they cannot work alone, so doctors, especially general medicine, are overloaded on the periphery. But, see, for two years we've been talking, specialization is not a matter of marriage, that this National Assembly should be closed, and the Minister and the Ministry have not taken any action. It is said, not even a yellow, red card for such an act by a minister and minister. I don't want to go into non-compliance with the coalition contract, because it's totally useless to read because you obviously wrote it somewhere in your dreams, and you haven't even read what you're writing, so it doesn't even make sense to quote vows. However, the Minister has made a number of commitments herself, especially when she gives annual programmes, which we also clearly read, the annual programme of action of the individual ministry, the Government and in these programmes are clear deadlines for the adoption of individual legislation. None of this has come true. If this is some kind of a good approach to the ministry, a coalition, then I don't know why we have a ministry or a minister. Health corruption. I think we're united here, that a lot of resources are leaking, some things have been warned, I wouldn't refer to individual articles in the newspapers. I think there's a lot of articles in credible newspapers. And just as it happened that some director had to step down from his candidacy or candidate for newspaper statements, it is likely that there will be some changes in this corruption through research journalism. But if we know that, and if the Minister agrees that this is a problem, I wonder again why you support the Minister if she doesn't do anything. Two years he promises to change things, and you still believe this will happen. I don't believe that anymore. There was a lot of talk about lobbying and which lobby behind us. It's me, thank God, and in the back row, no one's standing behind me. Maybe in a joke. But if someone's talking so vehemently about it, let's make it clear what and how. Just like the granting of concessions in the wrong way, if someone is talking about irregularities, illegalities, let them be made public and consciously clear. As flatly as the Minister spoke of it, it is not appropriate. But all the time, she's saying that she can't process individual legislation because there's lobbying in the background. And I would really like to ask that, before we conclude this meeting, the minister would nevertheless tell you who is behind her back or in front of her eyes, who is blinding her to the view that she cannot clearly see how to bring the marriage to an end. Because this has been repeated so many times that it would also be appropriate for the general public to pour pure wine on this subject once and for all, if this is already done and it says that this is the main reason that individual changes in health care cannot happen. The minister also says that in all statistics we are better than neighbors, than Austrians, and I don't know who else. I hope that we all know how to read statistics or how to rate statistics in some sense, and that statistics can be read by everyone as they please, and that they can be ordered as they please. So I wouldn't rely too much on that. But I can say, as some of my colleagues, both from the opposition and the coalition, that they probably experience a lot of criticism about the system, but on the other hand, they praised individual parts of the system, doctors, nurses, but the system is getting worse. And comments when someone needs medical attention when they come in contact with these people who work in this system get some response and I have to say honestly that there are no positive movements at this time. And now someone is going to say that I'm in some medical lobby or that I'm in some nursing lobby, and unfortunately I'm not, and I'm not, and I'm not, and I'm not. But I am for things to be saved and changed. From this title, I cannot help but support the interpretation, for not a single part of the commitments she has made, nor of the coalition treaty, nor of the promises she makes to the committees, has she so far resolved any matters. So he's got a lot of red cards on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Krivec. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Laj and Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Mrs. Bah Gibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I've got to do a little trimming myself. Somehow it sounded all the time, until what time ago, that this debate took place somehow in the spirit of the debate that was supposed to take place in the National Assembly. Opinions and views are being violated, different views on the issue in the country, but when it comes to a personal or low level, it is only right that we respond to this, if not the President. And the fact is that it was the MP from the party from which these low blows came today. Well, that's a little unusual. So I call on all present that we do not sit here and sit on sheep, but we sit on citizens and citizens, Members of Parliament and Members who have elected us to this place, and we will be here for a time until the people decide differently. What I heard today in the arguments that the Minister of Health remains in place speaks only one thing. She may, or she may be happy to remain in her chair, be a satisfied coalition, be able to attach some sort of red rush because she will apparently keep her minister, but she shows badly to our health system and to our citizens and citizens. For with this the politics that we have witnessed these two years goes on. Now, most of the debate, but I really think that 80%, if you went to watch a magnetogram, of those who speak in support of the Minister today, are looking for reasons for her failure and inefficiency in the governments before you. Only, Your Honor, this is not the solution. Don't look for excuses elsewhere. As long as we look for excuses elsewhere, we won't take a step further. And the fact is that the biggest problem with this minister is not that the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled this interpretation, which is supported by colleagues and colleagues from Nova Slovenije, the problem is that this minister contradicts himself even professionally, an interested public. Her work is a disgruntled union. There is a dissatisfaction with her work. This is not about the Slovenian Democratic Party, respectable, it is about those who work in the system and, of course, also about those who use this system. But you know, these people, ordinary citizens and citizens, they're being manipulated. Why? They don't know where the real argument is. They don't know it's the Ministry that has to take care of it, but they've started directly, by violence to get doctors and doctors. Now I've been talking to no doctors at this time who say, "I'm sorry, but you know, the biggest problem is that I don't know who's coming to my office next, what's going to happen." So far, your honor, we have brought this system. Today we are not talking about why the Minister's response to the interpretation does not have one concrete answer to what she has done. Some side of some sub-laws, some side of the rules. So what does it do if the system thing doesn't work? So, you know, it's not gonna be any different. Because your fundamental problem, Your Honorable Minister, is that you can't conduct a dialogue so you can't talk. This is obvious to you by the professional public, and it won't be different tomorrow if I don't know what the coalition is talking about today in your defense. That's just who you are. Everyone has to accept what they are. And you don't work on this function. Just don't see it for yourself, and you'll leave it on, and today you'll be happy to step into the other half of your term, but things won't change. The fact that you've been working on the preparation of laws in some secret, in bunkers, as if it were an emergency, you're creating an additional emergency situation, because you're not talking to the professional public first, you're not coordinating your proposals with the public concerned, but you're hiding somewhere in the back, somewhere quiet. Then you wonder why people are unhappy about why they have doubts about whether our system works. 36,000 patients are waiting for a first examination or surgery longer than prescribed. Thirty-six thousand. Now, Minister, tell me, if these people, which of course is extremely irresponsible of me, turn into numbers and statistics, you can tell me how many of them could die because they will not come in time for review or surgery. So don't tell me about the statistics you have that mean death due to waiting days. There's a lot more because they don't take you to this statistic because no one knows what was going on with these patients in this too long period of time until the patient came to the first examination or surgery. There's no statistics. But this one is even more painful than the one you're running. Then the President of the Government tells us, "The end of the year will be the results." Do you know what you're doing today? With some funds you've taken somewhere else, you think you're going to solve the waiting line problem. You won't. You throw money out the window and the problem comes back through the door. Why? Minister, when will the new standards be? When will there be changes to the blue book system? When are you going to change the regulations they're asking for? It's about someone who doesn't know exactly how much time they have to do, I don't know, surgery surgeons, psychiatric checks and so on. These things are out of date with us. There's no money help here. More than one doctor can do. We have these things out of date, and we don't really know how many doctors we're missing because standards and norms are out of date. And here is not a money solution only, respected, but a solution to systemic change. Now I am going to go into one area, which has actually hurt me very much, given how quickly these problems are actually growing in society. It's so-called mental patients or, I'll say, patients who need psychiatric treatment. This system, Minister, has been marked by you as not responsible for increasing mental problems or psychiatric disorders. You also said that you are not responsible for more suicides in this country. That's your answer, and I'll tell you the answer in the interpellation. Why? Because this profession has been urging you to look at the standards that are taking place in this area for at least two years. And you didn't do anything because at the beginning of this term, I asked you why adolescents, children, stay in the same treatment rooms as adults. And that is why, with every fifth citizen having problems in this area today, the profession warns that for a year or two, every third citizen will have these problems and we do not have the basic conditions. And let me tell you a specific case. The psychiatric base of the field is so full that young people stay in rooms with the elderly and others lie on the floor on mattresses because there is no room. And that's not drowning. This is the truth, and it's a special kind of treatment. In this century, in this country, at this age, our patients are lying on mattresses and you say that everything is fine and that the minister needs support to save the system over the next two years. How can anyone think that way?Oh, my God! Let us remember that it will be up to us tomorrow or one of us. We'll just probably take care of it a little differently then, and I'll tell you why. And the funny thing about all this was, when I listened to some debate that we wanted to compare some system with the American system, it was said to this grand-capitalist, destroying the system that destroys our public health care that we have. I'm not going to make a comparison between these two systems that aren't comparable. But there's only one thing to think about. American doctors are satisfied, they don't strike, they don't predict the sentence. American patients are satisfied with care, no waiting hours. But it is true that American patients are dying, but also Slovenian, because of the system. So we'd rather leave these capitalists and focus on our country. It is a shame that today some have deceived us by having so-called private health care, where concessionaires work, because it is not true because concessionaires are part of public health. We don't have much private health care as such. And concessionaires do the same as those in the system itself. Now, of course, Minister, as I said, you'll get support, but I don't mind the support of the largest coalition party. There's no contents. It's everyone's fault in front of you anyway. The system has always sucked. Strange, you're saying he's the best, maybe he's got a flaw. It bothers me, but you know, there's really no place for politics here on these issues. Desus ended up like this in his position. I must say that before that – written in a magnetogram practically one page – everything that is wrong in this system has been told and signed because it is all true. And if anyone, then in this Chamber, surely Mr Gantar knows what this system is like because he tried and saved and created it on his own. But you know that it ends with the words: "Today's interpretation against Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, who enjoys the full support of the Prime Minister of the Government, we will not support the Desus Group in this regard." Come on. If he says today, I don't know, President of the Government again that we should, I don't know, say we go to Mars together, we'll just say we're going to Mars because that's what the Prime Minister said. You've already lost one minister, because that's what the Prime Minister said, but today we all know he was doing the wrong thing and he demanded illegal conduct. Today you support another minister, who not only violates the law, violates the Constitution for me because citizens and citizens die because of the system he runs. Pika. Anyone who is unable to lead or change it should stand down on his own. Let's take a look at the Social Democrats. “Social Democrats are committed to an effective, quality, responsive and sustainable healthcare system for all our citizens, based on solidarity, reciprocity and justice.” Come on!? Now tell me, where do you find efficiency in the current system if you're talking about waiting species? Where do you currently find a sustainable system in all this system? I can't find him. Solidaren? Yeah, if you think there's a waiting line out there, and someone lets someone in early, because they see him in so much pain that he can't stand, then he's really solid. We can't talk about any other solidarity here. So, don't get carried away. You're saying everything the system should be, but it's not, but you support the current situation. All the politics on this issue, when we talk about the health system, I think it's really superfluous. I'm not saying that's what we talk about when you have ideological themes, and you could use that. But on the health system, we're not going to talk about red carnations and solidarity that we once knew, and one of them knew bananas, and the other never saw them. In short, Minister, there's not a single answer in your answers that said you'd make a more efficient system. The fact that you're promising something for the next period, I just don't believe you. They've been thrown away for two years. Now, in order to keep your chair, you spend some money on waiting periods, which is not just a money problem. If you look at what outdated standards and standards we have, you will see what is missing from us and that doctors literally burn out, that there are more patients among them than ever before. And that you, I think, are the other secretary in history when you have a doctor's statement, at least it's announced. But I believe it's mainly because you don't know how to talk. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, do not today account with the opposition. Today you are enemies of yourselves. For ourselves, because all of us in this country need an effective health system and we will be on our way as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. The word has Mr. Franz Lai, prepare to be mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mag. Bojan Krajnc. Mr. Lye, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! Governments and ministers are coming and going. Health care remains, the system as such remains intact and tons in trouble. Of course, the consequences are felt most by those standing in waiting lines without hope, without a proper view of the future that awaits them. And I think the time has come for us to end this. Minister, if there's anything for these people who are inexorably in line, then I expect immediate action. Why? It's practically a double damage. Each late treatment becomes more expensive and on the other hand, the sick person is not as effective as the healthy one. And if this lasts too long, the consequences and damage are great, which, of course, adds to the burden of our economy as well as the economic and political system. What do I expect from today's interpolation of debates? In particular, giving a clear message with the commitment of time, how and in what way with short- and long-term measures you will improve the system which is ineffective, as the inefficiency of this health system, which is obsolete and no longer suited to these new challenges, results in unsustainable, long-term and incomprehensible waiting types. The effectiveness of the health system certainly shows, once again, in the waiting lines. Certainly your work is now a little easier than the previous ministers. I'll tell you why. It has already been said that inflows to the health register are inadequately higher than they used to be. Let's keep going. We also have more resources from the budget, which is also happening in this draft budget. This means that any delay and failure is certainly your personal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ly. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Let's get the mags ready. Bojan Krajnc and Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Members, Members and others present! Today, Madam Minister, you will receive the support of Desus, because of your announced actions and because we do not want the instability of the health system. However, my support for the future depends on the content of your actions, on legislative proposals and on the resources to be invested in eliminating the health and social pressures of the population. You promise the right goals – public and accessible and solidarity health care. All persons should have the same right to health care. I hope it's not just about the promises. However, let me point out that such injections in the elimination of waiting types cannot be an excuse if one patient suffers health damage due to the unacceptable length of waiting time. To this end, the Government must provide funds. Whether you can make your promises come true or not, it is certainly also dependent and therefore also the responsibility of the Finance Minister and the President of the Government. Our health system is fortunately still among the best in the world. Although our governments have often planned and implemented harmful change reforms, particularly the privatisation and commercialisation of health care. With forms of public and private interference also with concessions, a total of non-profit public health has been dismantled. Concessions have been defined by social science as a form of public service privatisation. In Slovenia, concession-holders are mostly organised as profit organisations, but it is known what can cause greed for profit, especially in health care. Unfortunately, in today's debates, I must conclude that, even in this very important area, we do not know political parties together and choose non-profit public health, which is proven to be the best and most effective system for the country and for human health. Without a basis, today's attempt to find political points is also an attempt on the part of Mr Kordiš. Desus has always advocated non-profit public health and sought strict separation from public health because we are aware that the search for profits at the expense of human health is harmful. Experience in the world shows that the commercialisation and privatisation of health services in addition to demographic changes and the introduction of modern technology for diagnosis and therapy and new medicines have the greatest impact on the rise in health expenditure. In the countries of the European Union, it is the view that health services that are important to human health must be removed from the commercialised and unregulated market. This, however, has often not been taken into account by our health policy, I think, due to a lack of knowledge in this area. With all the promises of the health system, which will be public, accessible and solidarity, as you promised today, Madam Minister, it is difficult to forget your proposal to abolish certain emergency medical services, including in the Kamnik municipality. Which, fortunately, has prevented much effort. Then you did not show the necessary sensitivity to the health needs of the population. When talking about universal health insurance, do not mention the need to remove bureaucratic obstacles placed on patients by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. By the end of 2015, almost 4 thousand people had been without compulsory health insurance for more than two months, and more than 24 thousand had been insured and their family members, who had been detained by the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance for their non-payment of compulsory health insurance rights and were only able to receive emergency treatment, and we know what that means. The barrier to access to treatment is also a supplementary health insurance. I am concerned that, so far, among the necessary measures, you have not mentioned the elimination of the need for voluntary health outpatients, and they are only increasing, as is the case with higher poverty and homelessness in Slovenia. Until the health care of the most vulnerable groups in our country is taken care of, there can be neither good access to treatment nor even less access to a universal or solidarity health system. However, I welcome the restriction on tobacco products and the intention to withdraw the powers of the Medical Chamber, which you blame for the lack of personnel in health care. However, I suggest that the Chamber also withdraw its powers of control because of its poor performance. This should be done by an independent agency. The introduction of supplementary health insurance has caused citizens of Slovenia a lot of social and health pressures. It has reduced access to treatment and the fairness of the health system and brings annually relatively large surpluses to private insurance companies. All of this was analysed in detail as early as 2003, when we wrote a white book, which was also produced on the basis of discussions with the most well-established foreign health professionals. You promised to terminate the supplementary insurance and bring the funds into compulsory health insurance. It is logical that you will have against yourself an insurance lobby that, with its satellites from the Medical Chamber, has managed for more than a decade to prevent responsible policy action for the benefit of human health. Therefore, there is also pressure after the introduction of even more harmful compulsory contractual insurance and the further depriving of the existing rights of persons from compulsory health care. I hope that, soon before us, the legal bases that would completely separate from private health activities will limit the duration of concessions or eliminate them, ensure the non-profitability of all public health providers, including concessionaires, and be given the same responsibilities as those of public health professionals. I also look forward to the measures to combat corruption in health care and to ensure that people are responsible for evaluating waiting lines in Valdoltra, UKC and elsewhere – documents on this have already been a good time in the public sector – and will be removed from places where they can continue to abuse the public service. I therefore expect that you will ensure the non-profit of public health care and that you stop the medical carnivores, sitting on two chairs in public and private health, which greatly improves the health system. Doctors should decide whether to work in public or in private health care. The private and profitable delivery of health services has become very widespread in dentistry, which is becoming increasingly inaccessible to people, which also affects the deteriorating health of people’s teeth. The reduction of compulsory health insurance rights and the transfer of the financial burden of treatment to the shoulders of patients themselves has become a way since the independence of Slovenia to resolve the financial problems of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and Health Institutions, which we have recently witnessed again. It is known that the former Minister of Finance, together with the former Prime Minister of the Government and the current Director General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, is the most responsible for the 2003 funeral of health reforms, which also envisaged the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Dear Minister, I would like the promised content for public, accessible and solidarity health care to be presented soon in the form of legislative proposals. Then I hope that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance will really stand behind you. Granted, the financial resources for health care have long not followed the development of medicine, the increased cost of ageing the population or medical inflation. Even at a time when there was no economic crisis, investment in health was neglected, as is evident from the data on health expenditure in different periods, taking into account, of course, some changes in data collection methodologies. Slovenia spent 8.84% of GDP on healthcare in 2015, less than in 2001, when more than 9% of GDP was spent on health care. In 2015, public funds represented 6.44% of GDP for health, which was also lower than in 2001, when they were more than 7% of GDP. The rest were private funds for voluntary health insurance and direct payments by individuals. Therefore, private funds, which amounted to 2,40 % of GDP in 2015, are growing, of which 1,21 % of GDP is supplementary health insurance. In 2001, supplementary health insurance amounted to 1.14% of GDP. This represents already 27% of total expenditure on health in 2015. Slovenia belongs to the world summit by means of voluntary health insurance in gross domestic product. A high proportion is due to a significant reduction in the rights of the population from public funds and the transfer of the financial burden on health services to the general public. These services are subject to supplementary insurance or, in the case of illness or injury, to be paid for health services directly from the pocket. Only the United States of America and Slovenia are highly developed countries, which have also burdened poor and less wealthy people by paying for the necessary health services. This is why Slovenia has gone backwards in the fairness of financing the health system. The wealthier pay for health care a smaller share of their income than the less wealthy or the poor. Given the number of less wealthy and poor who depend on access to and quality of the healthcare system for life, we are particularly fond of the early medical measures in Desus. There are currently no adequate resources available in the existing budgets for this purpose. Not for the provision of long-term healthcare either. Therefore, it is high time for serious health-care measures, including major public health financial injections from general taxes, which will increase the fairness of health financing while at the same time addressing the problem of access to treatment. The problem is, therefore, huge in health care and private interests as well. The stumbling of different stakeholders will also be enough. That is why I expect you, Madam Minister, to make the right proposals in the promised direction and to implement the content that will benefit people's health. My support for the future will depend only on your actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u55	The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc, prepare Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacič and Mrs Eva Irgl.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, including the other Minister, the greetings of colleagues and colleagues! I must say that, of course, I understand the discomforts of some who oppose talking about what has been done in the past, but to see where we have come in the field of health, healthcare, of course, we need to look at where we started. The Minister began her term of office in September 2014. In the case of emergency centres or emergency medical care, I will of course show that many things have been done. When the Minister took over the September 2014 mandate, of course, the construction project of the emergency centres was not implemented. We have already heard, colleague Godec said that it had started in 2006, that the then first SDS government had scheduled the construction of emergency centres at its meeting on 12 October, and four governments and 10 ministers or ministers had been replaced since the beginning of the minister's term of office. The second fact that we note at the time of the Minister's term of office is that, of course, the emergency centres should be built and operational by 31 December 2015, which is why, of course, the return of European funds was threatened. We have heard that while some centres were in construction or just before the construction began, for example, for the emergency centre Nova Gorica, the minister was still looking for funds, but for the emergency centre Ptuj, of course, not the spirit or hearing. The following is the fact that the Minister adopted a project for the construction of emergency centres at the beginning of the mandate without a staff plan drawn up and without a financing plan for the implementation of the activities. In addition, none of the operators at the time recalled the lack of personnel or requested additional personnel. Also in the pre-transmission record, as we read in the written reply on interpolation, which was not the case. This problem has not been mentioned. The following is the fact that, with the construction of emergency centres in 2006, we are talking about the first government of the SDS, and neither in any other government of course were the paediatric emergency centres envisaged. Nobody thought of that at the time. We can now conclude from this situation at the beginning of the Minister's mandate that the situation in the area of the construction of emergency centres as well as the organisation or reorganisation of emergency medical care has been poor. As regards the emergency centres, the Minister provided everything necessary for the continuation of their construction and for the completion of the construction. Thus, of course, she successfully acquired funds to start and complete the construction of the emergency centre Nova Gorica, which were not provided at the beginning of her mandate. It also provided funds for unjustified costs for the construction of emergency centres, that is, for example, to ensure all necessary state-of-the-art medical equipment and for certain other unjustified construction costs, for example in the case of the Maribor Emergency Centre, these were static reinforcements of construction structures, totalling EUR 13.3 million. However, public health institutions have provided almost €11 million more. So she made sure they were up to 30. 6. 2016 all activities both physically and financially completed, European funds did not have to be reimbursed and so today 10 emergency centres operate and we have 266 new jobs. I spoke earlier about the Ptuj Emergency Centre, which no one knew at the beginning of the mandate how and with which money and when it would be built. The minister provided €1.9 million for the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre, which is on a visit to the government in Podrav 9. In March this year, she also told the management of the general hospital Ptuj and assured them that all activities for the construction of the emergency centre Ptuj could begin. Only the completion of the construction of emergency centres and, of course, the reorganisation of emergency medical care has enabled what was the objective of the whole project, namely the integrated treatment of patients, meaning both triage and review, as well as diagnostics and interventions in one place. And all of this in the short term, because the transport routes have been cut short because of transportation. Of course, patients have better quality services, especially those who are life-threatening because they have a greater chance of survival. In this way, after many years, we have finally received a modern network of emergency centres and a European comparatively organised emergency medical assistance. As far as the evidence of the lack of emergency medical specialists is concerned, of course, I can say and agree with the Minister that the Minister for the Lack of Specialists cannot be and is not agreed upon. There are two reasons. The first is because the tendering policy of the relevant specialists is managed by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. The second reason is that emergency medicine as a medical branch is a new specialisation that was adopted in June 2006 and entered into force in March 2007. The study takes five years. The first call for medical doctor specializations for the public health network was published in 2009 and 9 seats were awarded on 25 March 2009. It is understandable, therefore, that because of the new specialization, there is a shortage of specialists and chief mentors for specialists. Currently, in the system of 54 emergency medical specialists, 24 persons have specialized in emergency medicine, 28th has been awarded the title on the basis of work, as provided for in Article 18a of the Medical Service Act, 1 person has ostrified the name and 1 person has been recognised as a professional qualification of the EU. Of these 54 specialists, there are only 23 doctors appointed as chief mentor of specialists, which is relatively small and I must say that I see here a great potential for the future and also a challenge for the Minister. However, the reasons for this are whether or not they meet the conditions for the appointment of chief mentors, as set out in the rules on the types, content and duration of doctoral specializations, or because they do not want to be mentors. In this place, I would like to appeal to these specialists to consider becoming mentors. According to this Regulation, only three specialists can have the main mentor. Since there are already 54 emergency medical specialists in the system for the needs of the public health network and 12 for the well-known contracting authority, it is understood that the number of new seats is limited. Of course, it should also be stressed that there is a specialisation that young doctors do not like to apply for because it is a very specific and very difficult job. This also shows, for example, the fact that of the 16 seats awarded in this specialisation tender, there are 5 cities left unoccupied. As it is said, there is great potential in this area. I hope that the Minister, in cooperation with the Medical Chamber, will, of course, be able to reach an agreement in this area as well, and that in the future we will get both more emergency medicine specialists and more mentors. As regards paediatric emergency medical care and pediatric emergency centres, I reiterate that planners in 2006 and also later did not consider including it in emergency centres. Most of the emergency centers were already under construction. Thus, in March 2016, the Minister set up a working group to determine whether paediatric emergency medical care or paediatric emergency centres could be included in or already built emergency centres, where this would not be possible due to spatial and other restrictions on them. Despite the fact that, of course, no one thinks about it at the time of design, the pediatric emergency center in Celje is already working. It dealt with 7,000 children from January to August this year. Of these, 3,000 children with a travel pass and over 4,000 children without a travel pass. In addition, nearly 7 000 children were examined in all health homes of the Celje region during the on-call period, an average of 45 children per day. The Ministry of Health, within the framework of the above mentioned working group, shall prepare calculations for standards in paediatric emergency centres on the basis of a statistical data on the number of children by the age of 19, completed in the region of analysis of visits to children in the first six months in health centres in the region and analysis of visits to emergency centres. Finally, what needs to be stressed here is that children need medical attention. It is performed by paramedics, family medicine specialists who perform emergency medical care daily and specialist doctors in emergency centres. Therefore, it is, of course, necessary to firmly reject insinuation from the applicant that children are threatened or deprived of emergency medical care. As far as dispatch centres are concerned, in early 2017 the control centre in Maribor will begin to function as a test centre in Maribor, which we have already read about, in particular with regard to problems on the part of the mayor or local community and the provision of conditions or appropriate exchanges or facilities, and in Ljubljana, expected before summer 2017. Dispatches will record all calls, speeds of exports and arrivals to patients realistically and objectively, the difficulty of interventions. On the basis of these data and other criteria, which are set out in the rules for the establishment of a satellite emergency centre, the planned satellite emergency centres across Slovenia will be gradually introduced. This is a similar story to what we have heard in previous debates, that, of course, it is only with this Minister that we will get real information about waiting periods, and we will also get real information about calls and interventions here. Last but not least – helicopter emergency medical care as part of emergency medical care. The Ministry of Health has long carried out activities with partners in order to establish a second helicopter base for the implementation of helicopter emergency medical assistance. This was always of particular importance for the city from which I come. When I was working in the local environment, many asked me about this for a long time when we would stop being second-rate citizens compared to Ljubljana. Here we could just yesterday read the news that helicopter emergency medical assistance not only for Maribor, of course, but for the entire northeastern region provided by the Maribor airport, because of course the second phase of construction of the emergency centre, which envisions the construction of the heliport at the emergency centre, is not yet completed or plans for it are not yet ready, but the helicopter is expected to stand there, will of course land at the emergency centre or in the parking lot. The estimated value of this is almost a million and a half euros. The Helicopter Carrier of the Ministry of the Interior or the Police will provide financial resources from its budget for minutes of flight, and the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute will finance health services and the readiness of helicopter emergency medical teams. For this and for everything else the Minister has done so far, I thank her and, of course, predict support not for interpretation, but, of course, against interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u57	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgl and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, let me deny the claim that came from the right that the drug business law had fallen with Desus. We didn't confirm your decision, but we just postponed the pharmacy law and gave him a chance to improve it. In my place where I live, a lot of activity is happening every day for all generations. And when people, especially older ones, meet, say hello to a kind day and a wax for good health. There is no need for analysis or statistics to make our health important if not the most important value. But also the river that I often hear – first good health, the rest comes only – proves that all activities take place with the sole goal of Healthy, quality life. Let us therefore accept interpolation as an opportunity and an incentive to deal with the health problems that have arisen. With the changes, additions and reforms of our health care, we are therefore particularly careful how we can bring good health to an even better level. I have listened to quite a few visitors in our parliamentary group who have expressed their comments and disappointment that they have not been involved in preparing the changes they want, they want improvements, they do not oppose reform, but they want to be heard and heard. The professional public must be an equal interlocutor. A French philosopher says: “During the dialogue you and I come to a common truth.” I believe that it is difficult to reconcile all good practices and all the needs for change, since there are almost every place many different factors that already care for the health of their members, from kindergartens to care for the elderly. What if I just remember school? As early as 2008, we put together a curriculum that has brought many good indications of health care among students, between parents and teachers, by changing the philosophy of pedagogical work to date. People are enlightened, so they expect a lot and expect a lot. I just want to say that doctors aren't all corrupt. Most of them are their mission. That is why I expect conscious and contrived anomalies to be punished and expelled from health care. I also expect you to listen to good proposals for good solutions for all the current problems. We will support all coordinated and good measures, as we also support you in your efforts to improve the coming fundamental and important laws. That's why I won't support the interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u59	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mrs Marusz Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Madam Minister, for whom I hope that she will listen to us somewhere or that she will soon rejoin us here in the Chamber, it is, however, an interpretation of the work and responsibility of her herself in functioning within the healthcare system! This debate has now been held for more than 8 hours and has shown to date that the intervention against the Minister of Health is more than justified. Moreover, the Minister of Health herself did not have an argument to reject the readings we read within the interpretation. Let's go in one order at a time. First guess. Dear Minister, we inform you that you have not prepared a key health legislation. This, of course, is already evident today with the Moon more than it holds. Not only have you not gone into some comprehensive reform of the health system that is urgently needed, but you have not done your homework in what you promised yourself. For you wrote down when you swore as Minister of Health that in 2015 and 2016 you would adopt 17 laws in the field of health, but you did not. You've only passed 4 health laws. And these four laws are more cosmetic corrections than some serious approach to the reform of the health system. In fact, we should go to the Health Insurance Act and the Health Act. Where are these two laws, Madam Secretary-General? When were you planning on dealing with this, certainly a hard nut, but an important and crucial one to finally get some ventilation of this health system? Then, Madam Minister, we report to you unwisely or too quickly, the insufficient completion of the establishment and functioning of a network of emergency centres in Slovenia. I will point out here that, as an MP coming from Vipava or from the Ajdovščina or from the Vipavska valley, I also asked you orally about how you plan to arrange this and even went in this direction in order to end emergency medical care in Ajdovščina, which was then complete absurd, because you need to know that the emergency service or emergency medical care also covers the area of the Vipava municipality. And it's also an extremely loose demographic area, a transit transit on a fast road, a variety of other things that we were alerting at the time, and why it was necessary to maintain emergency medical care in Ajdovščina as well. Of course, we all jointly supported the construction of the North Sea Emergency Regional Centre in Šempetr, in particular in terms of the integration of the regions, but certainly not as a compensation for emergency medical care. Well, later, thank God, it worked out well, probably because we warned from this town that it was really absurd and pointless. Third thing, we read or claim that you are also responsible for the poor financial situation in Slovenian health care. Why? Look, Madam Minister, most hospitals are in red numbers. Most hospitals are in red numbers. We can close our eyes before that, but we can't deny the written facts in the numbers. All this causes longer waiting periods, because there is no money and therefore leave, Madam Minister, not only patients abroad because of the long waiting lines, but also good doctors go abroad. Even good doctors, which, of course, as you yourself have already said, are urgently needed, but are going abroad because of the situation. And who's responsible for that? Especially the one who covers this area as a minister. Of course, I'm not saying that everything that's happened over the years is your responsibility, by no means. But there are times when we would expect you to react more quickly and more responsiblely. That's why we've also filed an interpretation of work and responsibility against you. Look, Madam Minister, we tell you that you have not taken action in the area of extension of waiting periods in Slovenian health care. Let me fly fast, every eighth Slovenian is waiting in some kind of review. 264,000 Slovenians are on waiting lists. He waits for that basic right to be fulfilled so that quality health care can occur, and of course not when it may be too late for some things. And this is also a responsibility, if not subjective, but an objective responsibility of each minister in his field. I mentioned earlier that waiting types cause them to go abroad to patients, especially to interventions, and this is ironic, but then to return to the Institute for Health Insurance these funds. And most of them are going to Germany and Austria. Dear Minister, isn't that a mistrust to the medical system and to you personally? Look, I don't want our health system to be anything like the justice system. In the judicial system, we always say that ventilation is necessary and necessary, concretely, in a substantive and humane sense, but I do not want this to be similar to the judicial system, where the prosecutor says that he himself is exempt from any attention and that he does not intend to be responsible for the mistakes that happen. I do not want you to do the same, but to be aware that once you are in such a position, you not only bear subjective responsibilities, but you can bear objective responsibility. You are objectively responsible for certain anomalies or irregularities that occur or behaviour within the healthcare system. It has been repeatedly said here by members of the coalition that all mistakes have taken place before in the past, so that they can all be resolved that the Minister cannot bear responsibility in this respect but will not hold. Madam Minister, we and my fellow Members have not talked about the fact that you have not reduced the waiting lines, we point out that under your leadership the waiting line has even increased by 30%. Not only have you not reduced them, but your term of office has increased by 30%. And of course here I ask you: What have you done specifically to shorten waiting lines, specifically? Obviously nothing, since at least waiting species would remain at the same level or could even be reduced, but not increased by 30%. And this is your responsibility, this is not the responsibility of the ministers in front of you. And that is what we are talking about today, exclusively about your responsibility and your actions, which you were unable to carry out in the right way. And that's why we should figure it out and take responsibility and step out of this town, because it's obviously too demanding for you. Then we give you the responsibility for the poor operation of public health institutions and the role of political recruitment in public health institutions. Not to mention the case of Baričič, in the case of UKC, it is not necessary to repeat it, it has been said several times, even in the media, and your role has been revealed in this case of political recruitment. Then Mr. Andraz Vehovar and so on. We give you the responsibility for non-action in the field of corruption in health care. You probably agree with us that corruption in health is, and it's not small. This is also pointed out by those who operate within the healthcare system, not just politics. Let me just mention this famous case of venous braces, but it must be repeatedly pointed out that people remember it or that we all remember it together. As a result, an investigative commission has also been set up in the National Assembly, which I think will soon start hearings. In short, the venous cords were overpaid more than three times compared to, for example, the venous cords in Poland. Tell me how this is possible and how to eliminate such anomalies, how to achieve that it would not happen. It's your responsibility, Madam Secretary. Then corruption in the field of sponsorship and donations. This has been said by healthcare professionals themselves who work within the healthcare system. And I'm also here wondering what you've done so far, not in the last 14 days, when you've been leading the piano, why you have to keep this chair of the minister, but honestly, as a man, as a minister responsible for this department, what you've done to reduce corruption in the area of sponsorship and donations. And finally, your return, Your Honorable Minister. We've seen many times, you don't answer the press questions, if they're too demanding, or if they're going where you're not supposed to go, you don't give the answers that pull you out of front of the cameras, that's what we can see in the contribution to New 24 TV. They just dragged you away because you weren't able to defend your decisions. But citizens and citizens need to know what you are offering them, what you are preparing and what you are doing in the background. They need to know. Citizens and citizens, of course, feel what is happening and what is the health system. But they also need to know what you're doing somewhere where you're doing things, you're giving certain directions, you're doing regulations, and so on, and how these things are connected, which can limit you to some customeristic behavior and so on. We also give you the responsibility to prepare legislation on the basis of political priorities that are to the detriment of patients and patients and employees in public health institutions. And eight times, we read to you the actions and positions of the Minister responsible for health care in the exercise of a political function that results in lost confidence in the country's health institutions. It is clear to you, therefore, that because of your actions, there is no longer any confidence in the health institutions of the country. We also have a similar problem in the area of trust in institutions in justice. More than 70% of people don't trust the justice system, while elsewhere these numbers are different. Once again, in Finland, 83% of people believe in the justice system. So now this field of mistrust in institutions is also being drawn to the field of the health system, and this needs to be rectified. And that's why we're here today to point that out. But it is up to you, Madam Secretary, to accept your own responsibility, because apparently the coalition will not save you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u61	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Among other things, the reports that fell today in this hall were that I was the second minister to have a statement from doctors about the blue book or the standards and standards in this blue book. Let me tell you, we're negotiating intensively with a medical and dental union. There are 20 negotiations tomorrow. And why do we need to put standards and regulations on our nose right now if we know that this blue book is from 2008. Why the medical and dental union did not negotiate and require health ministers to introduce standards and standards into health care or public health institutions. The fact that we are negotiating, including on their new proposal for a collective agreement, shows that we are ready and willing to achieve a common objective. However, not in such a way that these standards and standards, which the profession has also stated, are not complete and do not cover all specialties and are in fact only a time standard, are introduced on the door to the nose, without measurement, without what it means to carry out activities in public health institutions. And I am the first minister to have listened to the union and for a month and a half, there is an experimental examination of these norms in five Slovenian hospitals: the General Hospital Trbovlje, Murska Sobota, Gonik, Celje and Psychiatric Hospital Idrija. Why? In order to determine in practice what the introduction of these standards from the blue book means that we will know how much time doctors need and what they need to do for public health care during their regular working hours and, of course, that we will also be able to reward the quality of services and patient safety as a variable part as part of a successful work of a particular doctor. Why does the union not accept that after the pilot is finished, this is November 30th, we will sit together again at the negotiating table and find out what these standards mean? And unfortunately, it is only said in the public that this is in the care and direction of having more time for the patient, but at the same time it is not told to the public and people that 50, 60 checks will be carried out, but all that will be superstandards should be paid immediately and in advance. I wonder where there is really only concern for the patient, that doctors will have more time for them and that the services will be better. For me as Minister of Health, however, the force would be irresponsible to the entire system, as well as to the management of hospitals, so that on the nose, without checking what these standards mean, we accept and put into practice. After one of the final negotiations, Mr Kuštrin said that this meant an additional EUR 100 million for doctors' salaries. But I do not want to – and because I am responsible for people – to talk about amounts and speculate, that is why I have put in place this pilot project to actually figure out what this means for our health system. However, I agree, of course, that some minimum recommendations in the form of standards and standards are necessary and will also be prepared as a tool for the management of institutions in the planning of staff needs, in the short and long term, and if you also want ten-year human resources plans for the needs of individual doctoral specialities. As for the waiting lines, I will say again, and you will find this in the reply, as I said in the introduction this morning, that some have been extended in my mandate, you say 26 others by 30%. I've already said it's a crap that's been rolling for at least seven years. Why did they extend their mandate? That is, of course, because I am again, unfortunately or fortunately, the first minister who has asked all operators to report waiting periods. Unfortunately, you can ask the National Institute for Public Health, which is responsible for the implementation of these waiting types, many operators have not sent these waiting lists at all. And I'm not going to go into different methodologies in this place, in a different way of showing, which I would say is actually about showing and counting apples and pears. So that's also why my mandate has extended the waiting periods. It's also easy because of the complete display. And after January 1st, we will be able to find out what real and objective waiting periods are in Slovenia. In addition, it is also necessary to distinguish, of course, whether it is a travel agent with a mark, which is dealt with within 24 hours, whether it is a passenger with a mark regularly or quickly. Mix waiting periods for, I don't know, surgery to the toe or for veins, the basic criteria actually don't have the same consequences as, I don't know, some waiting time for orthopaedic surgery. [[…]] So much for that. There was also a question about eRecept and eHealth in general, Mr Horvati. Let me say that this project, too, has a long beard and has been going on since 2008, unfortunately. At that time, a decision was taken on the European financing of this operation. Of course, by the time I arrived, this project had many complications, twists and turns. You've probably read that in the meantime some complaints have been filed and similar. Of course, I was faced with the fact that we are implementing this project, or, as in the case of emergency centres, all European Community money should be returned. From 2008 to 2015, €21.7 million was spent on the development of service infrastructure and the introduction of eHealth solutions. Of this, €1.7 million is poor in the integrated budget. In 2016 we ensure the functioning of eHealth services with 2.4 million, while in the 2017 budget there are still slightly less than €5 million planned for these purposes and €4.56 million in 2018. What has been the situation or progress in the last two years? Because if you look at the data, we were among the last countries in Europe at the end of 2013 after the introduction of eHealth solutions. After the national introduction of the e-reception in November 2015, I can say that in just ten months we have reached a 90 % e-reception rate, which means that only less than 10% of prescriptions have been written on paper. We estimate that this is a successful introduction, which has proved that informing processes in Slovenian health is possible, feasible and also necessary. In September 2016, this year, 56 % of healthcare providers both at secondary and tertiary level allowed e-procurement via the central system. On this basis, we, together with the National Institute for Public Health, carried out additional activities and promotions in e-procurement by the end of 2016. In January 2017, we will fully introduce an e-supply and an important part of the data provided by the e-Supply system are actual waiting periods for a particular service. This way, the patient will see in one place all operators who perform a particular service, while also having all the information on the actual dates where the service can be performed as quickly as possible. An important part of the project is the establishment of a national waiting list when we know exactly how many waiting patients there are for all health services, and on this basis, we can plan not only measures to shorten waiting lines, but also closely monitor their effects in real time. Let me also mention that for us, the central patient register, where we cover more than 25% of the population with a letter of discharge or an ambulance, i.e. a quarter of the Slovenians and Slovenes, is extremely important. For them, therefore, a doctor who is involved in the treatment of a patient may have an actual electronic view of the diagnosis and, of course, of all visits to this patient by a doctor. TeleKap is also a successful information solution that ensures equal availability of treatment methods for patients with a stroke throughout Slovenia. Since January 2015 we have also been centralising automatic collection indicators of the quality of all reference outpatients in Slovenia and this solution is also produced in eHealth. But you know that our plan is to have a reference outpatient in every general ambulance for the next two years to take care of all chronically ill people. This is a great gain that we have at the level of primary health that other countries do not have and many of us are asking to come and present these solutions to them. Long-term care was also mentioned. I cannot take responsibility for past work in the preparation of the Long-Term Care Act, because you know that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. However, I can say that in the last half and year, which we have been working intensively and which we have created at the Ministry of Health, a broad professional working group composed of more than 20 experts from various fields, has made very big moves. You are well aware that the projections of OECD, Health at a Glance for 2015 show that by 2050 the proportion of people aged 65 and over in Slovenia will be higher than the average of the OECD countries. The same publication also provides information on self-assessment of health status and restrictions on daily activity in persons over 65 years of age or older. The data show that the situation in Slovenia is worse compared to the OECD and also worse than the average of European countries. The need for action in the area of long-term care referred to above has also been recognised in our analysis, as part of the report on the optimisation of the delivery of health services. The analysis also points out that institutional forms of long-term care prevail in Slovenia and that care is focused on medical and curative approaches and less on rehabilitation and preventive approaches and that the complexity of the current system of rights in this area can lead to unequal treatment of persons in need of such care. These shortcomings of the current system are also included in our strategic document, resolution and provide for measures and activities to improve the current situation. The aim of the new arrangements for a long-term care and personal assistance system is to establish a comprehensive system of assistance for all persons, regardless of age, who are long-term or permanently insolvent in carrying out their basic daily and support activities and consequently in their social inclusion. Such a system should be based on principles specific to social security systems such as solidarity, general or universal accessibility and non-profit. In doing so, fiscal sustainability and quality should also be ensured, particularly in the field of domestic care. It will be necessary to establish a system of health and social integrated care in the home environment with a view to strengthening timely assistance and support at home, as well as in terms of managing the use of more expensive institutional, in particular health care. In order to slow down the rapid growth of public spending on long-term care and health care, it will also be necessary to ensure more effective prevention, early rehabilitation and adequate adaptation of the living environment to older people and to make effective use of information communication technologies. One of the key objectives of the new regime is, inter alia, to ease the rapid trend of increasing the direct expenditure of households for long-term care, thus reducing the pressure on the individual or his family in need of this long-term care. When preparing changes in funding, it will also be necessary to take into account that in Slovenia, as much as 48% of all public expenditure on long-term care is financed from compulsory health insurance or health insurance. Therefore, the change in funding will not be possible without a link and changes in health care. Long-term health care services will, of course, also be subject to compulsory health insurance and will be financed from the health treasury. However, as I said, in the last half-year of intensive cooperation and coordination, we have been able to achieve harmonisation on the basket of long-term care services, as has been the case in many years, and we have prepared a transparent and coordinated basket of these services, including health care, physiotherapy, working therapy as well as personal care and support activities. The agreed and harmonised is also a single entry point at which an integrated needs assessment will be carried out, which will be the basis for the allocation of rights and the development of an individual user assistance plan. A proposal for a Single Executive Body linking a number of Commissions and the various benefits to which long-term care users are entitled is also coordinated. Support for the coordination of operators, the establishment of integrated teams and the integrated development of a long-term supply network is also coordinated. Greater emphasis will be given to prevention, early rehabilitation, adequate adaptation of the living environment to older people and effective use of information communication technologies. Integrated financing and integrated management of these funds will be ensured. As you may have heard, we are agreeing with the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to transfer the responsibility for long-term care to the Ministry of Health, thereby increasing the commitment of the health sector to seek integrated systemic solutions, as the knowledge of other European countries, and if you also want the end of Japan, where they have known long-term care for 15 years, have led to the conclusion in these countries that long-term care in the majority is transferred to the Ministry of Health, because it can be much more effective and the right management of these services from one city. At the same time, it must also be said that the new OECD methodology, as of 1 January of this year, covers expenditure on so-called ADL services, such as day-to-day assistance services, considers and burdens part of public expenditure on health, which is very important in terms of financing and the long-term sustainability of the healthcare system. As you know, it is true that the share of public expenditure on health has been declining ever since the start of the crisis, that we have already been lagging behind the EU average by 1.2 percentage points in 2013 and that this will have to be compensated if we are to achieve a standard or level, because we know that some Scandinavian countries, of course, have a significantly higher share, including long-term care services. With regard to Mr Pojbič's answers and questions, I will briefly repeat once more on trust and cooperation. In my previous performance, I told you how many coordinations were with stakeholders, especially the Medical Chamber on the subject of only one law. Why, then, a lack of trust? The President of the Medical Chamber has repeatedly said that in fact the problem is our coalition contract and proposals and solutions for the healthcare system which are written in this contract. Apparently, this is where the untrust of the Medical Chamber comes from. But I'd rather say that this is essentially about mistrust just the management of this chamber, because I'm very well involved at different levels in working groups with doctors. The conceptual dissension is therefore known, and the coalition has committed itself to supporting and strengthening public health. This is probably why all objections to individual solutions in certain laws, which are, of course, in public debate and co-ordinated, as you have already determined, even for one year. Blood plasma response. I also answered this question to the journalist when I visited the autumn hospital on Friday, but I will repeat it again. With the guidance sent by the Ministry of Health to hospitals and the proposal prepared by the professional blood supply board, with due respect for our tradition of blood donors, the rules governing the field of medicines and more detailed plasma medicines are not violated either at national or European level. The gifted blood is a good that comes from the human body, so it is collected as such by voluntary and unpaid bloodguilt and should not be subject to market law. With voluntary and unpaid blood supply, full-blood plasma is a property in the Republic of Slovenia that we work rationally and sovereignly in order to ensure that excess human plasma, which is not used for transfusion purposes and for treatment purposes, is used for the treatment of patients in the Republic of Slovenia without market mechanisms or public procurement procedures. Traceability of behaviour and procedures from the acquisition of blood plasma to the manufacture of medicinal products from this plasma, including the use of these medicinal products, should be ensured in order to maintain and develop the system of unpaid and voluntary bleeding. Therefore, I would like to clarify that the area of plasma medicinal products differs significantly from other groups of medicinal products where the primary raw material from which the medicinal products are produced is not limited. In plasma medicinal products, however, the basic source is human plasma and this source is limited. This basic difference between medicines made from human blood or plasma and other medicinal products dictates respect for fundamental human rights, ethical principles and the safety of both full blood donors from which part of the plasma is used to convert to medicinal products, as well as the protection of patients whose lives depend on treatment with human plasma medicinal products. Patients in need of plasma medicinal products are dependent on a stable, constant supply of safe, quality and effective plasma medicines in quantities needed for uninterrupted treatment. For 70 years now, the bleeding agents of the Republic of Slovenia, with their altruistic act of donating full blood in voluntary and unpaid blood supply actions, have made it possible to survive for both the victims and the seriously ill patients in Slovenia. Certain blood components, such as red blood cells, platelets and blood plasma, are given from donated full blood for the purposes of transfusion and treatment or from medicinal products derived from selected full blood that are not used for transfusion or for treatment purposes. In the Republic of Slovenia we have established a public system for the provision of medicinal products from plasma collected in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. in a non-profit manner. Since 2012, it is possible to review the implementation of the public supply service for blood plasma products collected in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of EU rules, we exercise a public interest consistent with the seventh paragraph of Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and Article 71(6) of the Medicinal Products Act, a priority principle is introduced for the supply of plasma products collected in the Republic of Slovenia in order to use this to treat patients in the Republic of Slovenia. In order to maintain the system of unpaid and voluntary blood donation and its further development, it is necessary to ensure traceability of the conduct and procedures from the acquisition of full blood, blood components and blood plasma to the production of medicinal products from this plasma, including the use of these medicines in hospitals in the Republic of Slovenia. It should be pointed out that the Republic of Slovenia does not cover all the plasma requirements collected in the Republic of Slovenia, so it has been purchasing foreign plasma products for years. This means that the providers of foreign plasma medicinal products are able to transport medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the rules and market laws, the Republic of Slovenia does not provide plasma products collected in the Republic of Slovenia with the aim of expelling from our market foreign suppliers of medicinal products from foreign plasma, but uses only rationally the collected plasma in the Republic of Slovenia as its own source obtained from full blood from voluntary and unpaid blood supply and from such collected plasma through the industrial procedure of the products produced. The claim that foreign plasma medicinal products are prevented from entering our market is a lie. For years, hospitals have been purchasing medicinal products from foreign plasma in accordance with the rules governing public procurement, such as all other medicinal products of particular importance. The preparation of a manual on the supply of plasma medicines by the Ministry of Health was proposed by the former director of UKC Maribor, Prime Minister Gregor Pivec and ensured that the UKC Maribor will act in accordance with this instruction. The purpose of this directive, which was addressed to the Ministry of Health, is to assist hospitals in understanding and implementing the principle of priority care for medicinal products from plasma collected in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, information on the available quantities of plasma medicinal products collected in the Republic of Slovenia on the indicative quantities of these medicines, which are intended to belong to individual hospitals, taking into account the uniform distribution of these medicinal products in the Republic of Slovenia, and information on the intended quantities of foreign-plasma medicinal products to be collected by hospitals themselves in accordance with the rules governing public procurement. On 22 September, Slovenia's defence to the Court of Human Rights, in which we provided the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the way in which plasma medicines are supplied and our guidance that donated blood is a good that comes from the human body, is therefore not included as such in voluntary and unpaid blood supply. This means that it is not subject to market law and, as a result, that medicinal products from such pooled plasma in the Republic of Slovenia are not marketable goods. Such regulation is strongly opposed by the provider of foreign plasma medicinal products, which generates profits with foreign plasma products on both the global and the European market. At the same time, the same foreign plasma product provider also initiated proceedings against Slovenia with the European Community Commission in order to prevent us from supplying medicinal products from domestic plasma. In view of the above, support is intended to maintain respect for blood donors in the Republic of Slovenia, preserves a rich tradition in the field of blood donation, to ensure future care for the health of blood donors, and to ensure that in the future the use of plasma products is also ensured for patients in the Republic of Slovenia, because blood donors are very often their relatives, friends, colleagues, acquaintances, and not least among recipients of both blood components and plasma products, who have previously donated blood to themselves with the best intention of helping their fellow human being. In the Republic of Slovenia, only enough blood is collected to satisfy the need for red blood cells, platelets and plasma for clinical purposes and does not exhaust the population with intensive plasma withdrawals, as is customary and is mainly carried out in some countries outside the EU, including the United States of America. So much for what I'm preventing, and I'm fighting corruption and the system for the next few days, that I'm preventing foreign providers from entering blood products. And so much for this instruction to be clear. I will return again, or briefly, because there have been more and more instances of political recruitment. As I have already said, I wanted to raise the level of expertise and responsibility of the institutions' councils at the beginning of my term of office. That is why I have adopted a special protocol defining the requirements or the urgent need to fulfil the competences of someone who wishes to be a member of the board of the institution. I am aware that the responsibility of each individual member and of the Council of the Institute as a whole is the same as that of members of the Supervisory Boards in companies, as institutions are also turning large sums of public money. If this is a political recruitment for you to require professional knowledge, competences set by an independent commission to require that a minimum number of points be met so that someone can even run for office board members, then I really don't know what else can be added. However, let me say that we are also in final preparation for the starting points, as we imagine that in the future management and management of institutions, it would be more effective to establish the award of the management of institutions after their success and also, of course, the quality of the services that this institution deals with. It is true that in sacred institutions, most members of the founder have a greater share of the responsibility. But they work independently, according to their professional, moral conscience and honesty. With regard to directors of public health institutions, it must be said that, of course, every institution also has a statute specifying, in addition to the law, additional conditions to be met by the individual candidate, that, after the term of office, public calls have been made for the directors to prepare a strategic four-year programme and that, of course, the saints of the institutions have carried out the so-called hearing or presentation. And if the Council of the Institute, by a large majority of votes or unanimously, has chosen on the basis of all these candidate criteria, which it has convinced by its programme and operation, of course I as Minister have not had and have no reason not to place such a candidate in the government's approval or consent. This is the same for everyone. If it were to hold what you seem to me to recruit politically, then at least five or six hospital directors where they are would not give consent to them. Not to mention them because they are from other political options such as coalition, from UKC Maribor, General Hospital Celje, Izola, Brežice, Jesenice. So where is this political recruitment? However, to replace members of the boards of institutions, the commitment was in the protocol that within one year of the entry into force of this Protocol we would check all existing members of the boards of institutions whether they met the criteria. All were also invited in writing to re-register and it is possible that any of them did not comply with the tendering conditions and therefore could not be re-appointed. And that is, of course, the only reason you see that we have replaced all the members of the board of institutions, which is not true and are not true. With regard to the appointment of Mr Kopač as Director-General of UKC Ljubljana, I should say that he was appointed in accordance with the invitation to tender, by procedure, legally at the time of submission of all the documentation and I do not know why you are still asking me this question. In citing the costs of treatment abroad, the interpolation promoters make it false or false that, as a result of the decision, the costs of treatment abroad were to benefit from the right under the 2011 European Directive, the European Parliament and the Council on the exercise of patients' rights in the field of cross-border healthcare in 2015 of 5 million 948 thousand 602 euros. Decision on scheduled treatment abroad – insured persons have, in accordance with the law and rules, the right to review an investigation or treatment abroad on condition that treatment options are exhausted in Slovenia. This is what article 44a of the Health and Health Insurance Act states, and that waiting period has been exceeded in the Republic of Slovenia, which is Article 44b of the same law. Where an insured person chooses to be treated in another EU country on the basis of a travel authorisation or prior authorisation of a health check. The eligibility for treatment abroad and the reimbursement of the costs of this treatment shall be decided by the official person of the district health unit in the administrative procedure at the first stage and by the Directorate of Health at the second stage. In 2015, 747 such applications were dealt with by the health treasury. The insured persons were most frequently sent to Germany and Austria for inspection, investigation or treatment abroad. Services that have been most frequently performed abroad concern the field of heart surgery. In particular, you will remember that this is a child’s heart surgery, treatment of epilepsy and lung transplantation and related examinations. Let me stress that for these interventions in Slovenia waiting periods are not exceeded. These are interventions carried out only in rare centres abroad. In 2015, only 414 applications for treatment abroad due to the length of the waiting period in Slovenia were addressed by the health department. The maximum number of proceedings was concluded by a rejection decision, as the applications were incomplete. However, the most received applications concerned the approval or reimbursement of the costs of investigations with magnetic resonance in the Republic of Croatia. And according to article 44c of the same law, the medical treasury received a thousand 717 applications for reimbursement of the costs of specialist and hospital treatment, the purchase of medical devices and medicines abroad. On the basis of this Directive on cross-border cooperation and the exercise of patients' rights, the Health Insurance Office reimbursed EUR 459 000 in 2015 for the cost of all positive applications to insured persons. The Ministry of Health has adopted an order on a list of health services for which prior approval of the Health Insurance Office is required. The Regulation establishes a list of highly specialised and expensive medical infrastructures or medical equipment used for health services for which prior approval of the Health Insurance Office is required from 8 February 2014 as a condition for the exercise of the right to reimbursement of costs. In view of the above, the health department received 39 applications for prior authorisation in 2015. The claim made by the interpolation applicants regarding the termination of voluntary supplementary insurance and the regulation of compulsory health insurance rights and obligations at the level of law is a contractual commitment. And as I have already explained in response to the first point of interpolation, the proposal for a law on public debate will be ready by the end of the year. The perception of interpolation investors that they should stop pretending about money is, again, that health needs extra money. As I have already mentioned, it lost more than half a billion during the crisis. And because I am very aware of this, I have provided the most health care funding from all ministers so far since 2009, by 21% in 2014 and 46% in 2015 compared to 2013. To this end, I have also proposed in the law the establishment of a so-called tobacco centre, which would also bring about an additional €65 million per year for health care purposes, which you, honourable Members, will soon be able to decide. And all the time, I stress that spending on health needs to be seen as the best long-term investment that comes back to us three times with better human health, with lower costs of the health system and, of course, a smaller number of sick and satisfied people. There's been a lot of talk about emergency centers. If you ask people who have been looking for any emergency centre in the past period, they will tell you that they have not had such rapid and good care in these centres of Slovenia. And where the appropriate specialist examines the patient from the beginning to sending him home or to the hospital, along with all the tests and all the diagnostics. The special working group visited all the centres, found out what problems they were facing, and also found that the initial onset of patients was very large in these emergency centres. The initial organisational problems are also gradually being resolved, but we know that the specialist is a doctor of emergency medicine, this is a new specialization in Slovenia, that of course there is not enough of these specialist doctors yet, but we have increased the number of specializations so that this manco will also be settled in the coming years. The emergency centres and their activities also require additional funding, which, of course, we have also provided and is financed in the form of services. Rapid inspections units, which are financed in the form of an annual flat-rate, or we call it the so-called blue-green sector. However, on the basis of this analysis, the group will also make proposals for the next general agreement. During the first six months of operation of the emergency centres, 242 thousand 365 checks were carried out and 33 thousand 261 patients were admitted to the hospital for further treatment. However, the maximum number of inspections was detected between 7 and 13. Hours, a little over 94,000. From 13 to 19 hours a little over 91,000. And between 7:00 and midnight, a little over $44,000. And in the same time period, without a travel pass, I stress, and in the emergency centres, almost 111 thousand patients and 132 thousand patients were examined with a travel pass. I think these numbers in themselves say how highly justified these emergency centres are and that people with quality and security with service in these centres are very pleased. As you know, this system of emergency centres must also be complemented by the health centres of dispatch, as I said, by the end of this year, a health dispatch centre in Maribor will be established and operational. Finally, I can say that I fully agree with the debate or with the position and observations of Ambassador Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u63	First, a replica, if I understand correctly. I know you called, but Mr. Pojbich wanted a replica first. Replica, Mr. Marijan Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the Minister also appointed me in her debate, I think I should give a brief warning about those inaccuracies. It has argued and discussed many, very widely regarding the procurement of medicinal products from plasma and so on. In this context, she spoke very much because here I have asked quite a few questions. She abused, and that's what bothers me terribly, abused the blood donors, the people in Slovenia, and so am I, gave over 40 times the blood, and I'm also among the blood donors, she abused the blood donors to try to justify what she did and she's doing wrong. Now I'm going to say it very concretely. The guidance it issued, which I spoke about earlier and which the Minister discussed, is absolutely illegal. “The priority principle of supply of medicinal products from domestic plasma can only be applied if the Institute of Transfusion Medicine offers a completely equal price compared to other providers. In such a case, the Office for Transfusion Medicine may be selected, otherwise the most favourable provider shall be chosen.” Of course the minister should know that. Under the European Directive, blood products do not constitute an exception to other medicines. Therefore, there is a tendering procedure under the European Directives. That's what the European directive says. However, in the event of a discrepancy between our legislation and European directives, the Directive applies as a primary source. I've been counting on the secretary to know, but she's obviously poorly trained as far as these areas are concerned. And one more thing. She was talking about the frame-up. Look, it's amazing that she said that they had a human resources commission, which she did — what did she say? – who is an independent and independent committee appoints members of the boards of institutions. And on this committee are members of SD, Desus and SMC. Mr. President, why don't you tell me, is this an independent commission? And you know you must be ashamed that the minister here is talking such nonsense and lying. That's a lot of rudeness. I would say, if I were honest, this is a political commission that is politically humanizing and no problem, no one would blame her. But he must not allow himself to be deceived by the Slovenian public in this way and lie and pretend and abuse, even as I said before, blood-tenders. That's a lot of rudeness. I don't think such a minister and such a government and such a coalition has ever had this state council. Thank God the moment of truth will come when such people do their things in such a way - Mr President, I will conclude - to get rid of them as soon as possible from those or those who decide on the Slovenian future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u65	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank the Minister for an extensive report on what she will do on long-term care, how she is with blood plasma and so on. In particular, I would like you to answer my questions. Actually, you've read now, I don't know, on the 10 pages of the report that someone brought you. I would expect the minister to answer my specific questions from the top of her head. And if I continue where my colleague ended up, with blood products. We are also talking about Human Immunoglobulins, which, according to the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products, are not exclusive under our legislation, not according to the law on medicines, nor under the law on public procurement, and you have concluded that these medicines are exclusively purchased by hospitals from the Institute for Transfusion of the Republic of Slovenia and that they must not go into a call to obtain foreign suppliers who have lower prices, as you well know. So the question is why you, with your decision, gave an exclusive to the purchase of certain medicines that have no basis to be purchased exclusively in Slovenia for an indefinite period of time at unknown prices. The Institute for Transfusion of the Republic of Slovenia can place any price and hospitals must buy. This is the same case as it was on the ventricles. It's the exact same case. It is necessary to buy in Slovenia, we must not have foreign suppliers, and the prices of domestic suppliers are much higher. So the question is why you gave an exclusive medicine if the representative of the Medicines Agency says that there is no exclusive medicine in the Republic of Slovenia. So the boundaries aren't closed for these drugs. And to use blood donors for such a debate, half an hour about blood donors. With all due respect, but drugs are medicines that can also be bought on the foreign market at lower prices. And when will the ministry start working in terms of searching for foreign bidders who have lower prices. That's the first question. Please tell me why you gave the exclusive to the Institute for Transfusion in this case and why you do not behave as a good master to help hospitals obtain foreign investors. Next thing you haven't answered me either. What were your measures in your mandate to combat corruption, as we read daily about various affairs in UKC Ljubljana, especially in UKC Ljubljana? And if I start by reading in the media first, even though you don't like them, if you're saying the media, but these are the only ones who are clearly revealing things, determined that the UKC is controlled by a group of people in the workforce. The case of this Mr Smilic, a warehousekeeper who has been involved in skipping waiting periods, is expected to involve 10 doctors, especially the former Director of Vrhunc, that unnecessary jobs have been carried out, that, for example, the case also mentions washing laundry and internal transport, where prices have been reduced from one year to the next, and earlier this reduction could not be achieved. What did you do in this area to get rid of these so-called octopuses in the UKC? Once again, you have all the options, 6 members of the Board of the Institute of 11 have in UKC Ljubljana and I am interested in what you have done in this area. Next thing. In UKC Ljubljana there are waiting periods on coronarography for 9 months, in Germany, England 4-6 weeks. ZZZS has approved additional money to reduce these waiting periods, but this money is not used in UKC Ljubljana to shorten waiting periods, but, according to some, patients are transferred to Maribor and Celje, where there are shorter waiting periods. But there are higher prices of material for these matters. So higher prices of stents that were overpaid in 2013, 2014 and also in 2015 in Celje and Maribor. What you have done in this area, because there are known things, once again, since 2013 things have been going on. And if you have inherited everything you are boasting about, TeleKap, eHealth, emergency centers, then you also inherited this and in this area you should also do something and I wonder whether it is true that the New Town General Hospital opens a new catheter laboratory and, if so, why, because it is 30 kilometers from Ljubljana and Celje, why is this and why the money from ZZZS is not being used in UKC Ljubljana to shorten waiting periods on coronarography? That's one question. I would ask you if you would answer here, because this is also the case with certain acts of corruption that I would like to ask you again: What are your measures in the field of tackling corruption, given that you advocate zero tolerance for corruption? What is your position on corruption in skipping waiting periods, in purchasing material? And once again, I ask you: Why did you deceive the Court of Auditors when you said that a record of the purchase of medical equipment would be made in July, because this involved corrupt acts against suppliers and buyers, of course, why did you cheat the Court of Auditors because these cases were not done today? History or former ministers and former governments, you say they are guilty, they did nothing in 25 years, but at the same time brag about the network of emergency centres that you did not establish, you did not, 2006 started a network of emergency centres, 2009 money and needed to be built by the end of 2015. You started your term of office in September 2014. But if you've set up a network of emergency centers, then you're a super minister, and then you don't have to give up at all. eHealth is not your project. It's an old thing. TeleKap is not your project, it's an old thing. And on TeleKap – Madam Minister, the cup of arrival at the hospital rose from 55 minutes to 90 minutes in your time because you intervened in the TeleKap project because you removed certain experts from the project. So I ask you: What will you do in this area, that TeleKap will work normally and that patients will be provided at a better time than 55 and 90 minutes today, which is above European guidelines? The next question, the question I ask you again, is: Is it really the information of the Ministry of Finance that the healthcare contribution is falling from 6.6 GDP to 6? You used to laugh at that data, and now I'm wondering if that's true. Answer me that the long-term contribution to health is declining. Here I would like to ask you for a concrete answer — yes or no. Next thing. Young people are going abroad, young doctors. Again, I ask you: What are your policies to keep young doctors, young researchers in Slovenia, so they will not go abroad, not just what you will do, so that our patients will not go abroad, so that they will not go to the treatment of Croatia and Austria, which has such a bad primary system, what will you do in this area? Next thing you know, I'm interested in the next thing. Colleagues from SMC said that we should be sane after two and a half years when there was nothing done in health care, but now we should be calm and wait, suffer more, I don't know, by December probably, then the matter will fall also on your side, in the meantime talking about collective responsibility, so that we are all guilty, that is best, and we are all guilty of nothing concrete. So we're all guilty of a poor health system. I don't feel guilty about a bad health system. And even patients waiting in waiting lines are not guilty, Madam Minister, that they are in the waiting line for five years, they are not to blame. Is it my child's fault that he has to wait six years for an orthodontist? It's not his fault. Don't blame the patients, the doctors, the doctor's office. I ask you again: How do you then comment on the declaration of the Medical Chamber, which has been accepted by more than 70 delegates to the Assembly, in which they say they want to change immediately now? And you say that you are opposed only to leadership. That's why I'm asking you how you comment on these things. You say, in coalition, healthy after two years, because it's impossible, such waiting times, corruption, minus in bank accounts also in banks, yes, in hospitals, that internist first aid kicks through stitches, that in the morning, say, waits for 28 people because there is no room in internal departments and so on. [[…]] We have talked about this, I think, even at one of the meetings, the Minister has promised everything that she will do to force the UKC to sort things out, but today they are reporting again that the matter is catastrophic. I would also like to know who or from which side they are appointed to the following working groups. Who are the working groups for the Health and Health Insurance Act, the Law on Organising and Managing Institutions, the Health Workers Act, the Law on Patient Rights and the Law on Health? Who is appointed to these working groups? The representatives of which stakeholders are in these working groups? Next thing. How do you comment, again, is it true that in the working group or the group to confirm specialisations, your professional co-worker, who has continued to insist on conflicts of interest, and you finally had to withdraw her? How do you comment on the conflict of interest of your secretary of state who works at the Ministry today while at the hospital in Jesenice? Isn't this a conflict of interest? In fact, Jesenice Hospital is a direct budget user. I'm interested in your answers. Is it true that your professional associate in this specialization group was a call for specialties? How do you comment on this conflict of interest of the Secretary of State, given that you have zero tolerance for corruption and, of course, for these links? What do people say? You probably don't have time right now. I've been brought to the table by two polls from different media. I'm not doing any commercials. One has 66% support for interpolation and that health care is poor, and the other has 92%. Why could neurology have happened, why did children’s heart surgery, Isola, Nova Gorica, overpayment of material, and so on? But there is no solution, Madam Secretary. There's no answer, you're the only one who's happy that the charges didn't come to the Ministry of Novo Gorica. It's your pleasure, and now you're happy. So, again, did you expect any complaints? You have placed emergency centres in hospital management, so you are objectively responsible for these matters in Novi Gorica. It seems to me that, in fact, you have not accepted or even Members of this European reality or that you cannot privilege public institutions against concessionaires. Look, today our patient can go to Austria, to a private or public institution, wherever and get the money back from the insurance company. He's getting his money back. At the same time, a foreign contractor in Slovenia can carry out an activity and get the patient's money back. But you favor now, so you give exclusives to public institutions, concessionaries, our own Slovenian doctors push down, but others will be able to do what they want in Slovenia or how? Our patients can go abroad for treatment and get a refund, and you limit and tell our doctors that they are corrupt and I don't know what. You accuse former ministers of awarding concessions overnight. In 2007, when concessions were granted, according to you, overnight, there was no European directive or Slovenian legislation in this area. They weren't obliged. That's not an excuse. I call on you once again if concessions have been granted overnight, in friendly relations, Madam Minister, to report this or to the anti-corruption committee or to the NPU, I do not know anyone. At last, please stop talking about it. Report a person with a specific name, or shut up about these matters so that the concessions have been untransparently granted. Because that is also the case because you well know that the concessions in the area of the guarantee were given with the consent of the Ministry, the proposal to give the municipality and the agreement to the Minister. So the minister did not distribute them, giving his consent because the congregations asked for them because certain matters were not covered in public health care. I'm calling you again. Then I will believe that you may have done something to reduce this corruption. Because with this corruption, overpayment of material that's still not made, don't tell me you've made common public orders because you made them for gloves. That's what you said in one session. You can't make expensive medical equipment because there's no record of expensive medical equipment. That's what the Court of Auditors told you. And you're saying that in two and a half years you've done a lot. Everything you said today, Madam Minister, once again the emergency centres, TeleKap, eHealth, eProcurement is not your project. It's not. And history, or former projects, suits you when you need to be commended. But when it comes to the situation that you haven't done something in some area, it's the former ministers and the former governments. And I once again call upon the former Prime Minister of the Government, the former Minister, to make a statement whether they really feel they have done nothing and that all the exes are guilty of everything. You've stepped into too many shoes, and apparently you think you've got the fungi, so you have to reset it and put your shoes away and start again. But you haven't been able to do that in two and a half years. Madam Minister, please specifically answer me: Who has granted concessions intransparency to break the entire system of concessions for this reason? Who was that? When are you gonna report him? Have you done it yet? What are these concessionaires? In what area? When will you also take action in this area to get health care homes, the circus 50 teams are overpaid, which means paying specialists, which is, say, a health home, I won't name it, has paid three specialists, and actually has one when are you going to clean it up? [[…]] These are the cosmetic repairs you're talking about. And now once again, the European reality is that I can go to Austria or to a private or public doctor, I will get paid back, there is no problem, there is no problem abroad, there is no problem in Slovenia, but our private doctor concessionaire will not do anything wrong again and the concessionaire must not do anything. And when you examine the concessionaires, because each of them has about a thousand 800 patients, it's going to have to go to public health, I'm wondering what the waiting hours are going to be then. And this question: Is it true that today doctors are under great pressure to reduce waiting periods, whether artificial or realistic? For the doctors say that it is a terrible pressure from the Ministry that waiting periods must be reduced, even if they are artificially reduced. The next question, I ask you again, a conflict of interest, I have told you two cases, please for a concrete answer. And then it's probably the next time. The report you had for an hour told us what you were going to do, and I'm asking you again why you didn't do it and why there are no laws, why the government's normative plan is not fulfilled. On this point, the President of the Government should ask you why you have not fulfilled the normative plan. No, he's behind you and he says that this kind of health system deserves our citizens. Our citizens don't deserve to stay in the waiting room for four years, two years, whatever. They don't deserve to go abroad for treatment, for dentistry, for example, to Croatia, entire tourist buses drive to Pula and you say it's okay. And the coalition says it's okay, we're going to support this ministerial concept today. Please, for specific answers, you still have some time below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac and Mr Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I think that we really need to aim to establish adequate functioning health care and, of course, also adequate access to free healthcare services for all citizens, in fact. If this is not possible, of course it is necessary to act immediately. And if we look at the real picture and look at the waiting times, we can see that not one condition, so that we have proper functioning health care or system or adequate access to these services, requires real quick action. If we look at the situation in waiting species, it can wait for its health care throughout the process for four years. This certainly is not a period that we would be proud of, and that is why we must act immediately, of course. However, if immediate action is needed, it is also right to make priorities. These priorities, which I mention for up to four years and so on, can certainly be traced back to rheumatology and, of course, to urology, and it is likely that this problem needs to be tackled with real priority. Also in my initiative, which I have given to try to reduce waiting lines to only 90 days on condition to ensure adequate personnel, material conditions and, of course, money. When we talk about all these conditions, it must be said that it is right that we first take advantage of what we have at our disposal. And here I would like to point out that, even today, it has been repeatedly mentioned that we do not actually have a proper analysis of the health situation. It's not like that. I have an analysis which was actually done and related to the implementation of healthcare at the primary level in the Republic of Slovenia. All this data exists and, of course, it is also clear exactly how many concession programmes have been awarded, of course, how many are implemented in health institutions. However, I would also like to point out that, of course, a large part is also linked to the functioning of local self-government, and here it is also an important message, which must also be given within the framework of the current Act on Pharmacy Activities, that our direction in this direction must indeed be to keep these medicines within the healthcare system and, of course, the system is also trying to directly influence the better implementation of healthcare. The next, which is very important for all of these measures, is that of course we also burden the economy, because ultimately inappropriate access to health services also means a great outage for the employer, and not least for the first thirty days it is certainly the cost of the employer, and, of course, this is also the cost of the Health Insurance Institute. If we look at the 2015 data, we find that the cost of the hospital stock has increased by 9% or 19 million euros. If we add to this the costs that employers have in those thirties, the first thirty days, these are the means by which they can certainly significantly reduce waiting types in a very short time. The fact is also that a key decision or signature of a general agreement between the Health Insurance Office and the Ministry is where the funds will be invested. In the light of the forecasts, however, it is necessary to predict that in previous years more resources have actually been made available for health services, to increase the prices of health services, and to reduce waiting types. Therefore, it is also right here to take a priority in such a way that more resources must also be provided through this general agreement to reduce waiting lines at the current prices of health services. Of course, no movement will be made to improve people’s health. It is also absolutely necessary to establish a waiting register or waiting period register. The point is that this register should be made public, so that every patient can also determine the day that is on the waiting line when it will come. This, of course, also removes all these problems and corrupt actions that we have been following up on in the last period. So to establish a register, a public register of waiting periods, is one of those issues that solves too many problems related to corruption within the healthcare system. Of course, it is necessary to ensure the functioning of the health system throughout the territory or surface of the Republic of Slovenia at a comparable level, and thus, of course, also to allow that if there are some waiting types shorter, the individual patient can, of course, travel to the region where the waiting species are shorter. This is one of the measures that is also possible and can be implemented immediately, but it must, of course, be made more organised than has been the case in the last period. The public procurement system is key in terms of the funds invested in health care, including the funds allocated from the budget. I think that one of the priorities must be to establish a public procurement agency as soon as possible, which will carry out public procurement for all public institutions, both in the field of health care and in other areas of education and other activities, including municipalities. In fact, this can save a very large amount of money, which is then allocated to health care, pensions, education. This procurement agency may centrally conduct all these procedures. There will also be much less complaints about such procedures, as we have a properly trained team. It is significantly less likely that these will occur, I will say, whether local arrangements or arrangements are being made in individual institutions to ensure that funds are spent in a transparent or substantially larger scale than would be necessary. Within this too, it is certainly necessary to explore the possibility of joint purchases with hospitals with which we are already participating abroad, where we are going to our patients. It is also where we meet that the price of medicines is lower on these markets. Why not also try to establish an appropriate system across all these hospitals abroad in order to obtain cheaper medicines? This is the case in Austria, Germany or Poland. After all these locations, we are already meeting with the cooperation and travel of our patients to treatment. Of course, public procurement of materials and advisory contracts is also important. In fact, it must also be made public which material has been obtained. Then, of course, many speculations, to which we are also witnessing during this period, which can also be said to have been built from independence onward and to come to this stage, can be said that we really need a complete overhaul of the health system. And when we talk about comprehensive renovations, it is certainly one of the things where such standards and standards need to be adopted already, so that we can also substantially evaluate the work more precisely and also reward those who are truly quality, do more, through standards and standards it is possible to do this in a transparent way, without feeling that someone has been privileged, and others, of course, put aside. Surely, the salaries of those of the lowest paid workers in health care are those that need special attention and need to be dealt with as a matter of priority, as they also make the biggest personal contact with the patient. It is very important that we also reward this properly. With regard to future developments, I think it would be much better and, in fact, it is appropriate not to talk in Slovenia after 25 years about how untransparent money is spent in health care, how difficult we are to provide certain capacities. I think we should actually talk today about building a new university clinical centre in Slovenia, which would, of course, be modern and would bring together all hospital capacities in one place, also have adequate logistics, access to this city and, of course, have very close cooperation with education, science. This is what we need for both domestic needs and to be competitive and attractive for someone who can also be treated abroad in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Mr Miha Kordiš and Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. One of the findings in today's interpolation is the apparent responsibility for the poor financial situation in Slovenian health care. The fact is that Slovenian health care has been in poor financial condition for a long time, as healthcare funds have consistently declined for several years. The trend in funding allocated to healthcare under the budget is now positive. It is also necessary to know how the Ministry's allocated resources and resources for public health services are allocated. The proposaler tries to show that the ministry is leaking all this money, while we know that in Slovenia we have a specific arrangement for financing health activities. Health insurance companies play a role in the health services market in Slovenia. In the framework of insurance services, the financing shall be divided into the part covered by compulsory health insurance, within this Department of Health Insurance of Slovenia, and into the part covered by supplementary or voluntary health insurance companies. These are three on our market. However, the entire funding cycle of these services is completely bypassed by the Ministry's budget. The Minister has been pointing out for the entire time that the proportion of GDP allocated to Slovenia from the health budget is extremely low, approximately 3% per year. It is also necessary to know who created such a situation. The funds for health have been diverted by past governments. Since 2009, funds have decreased and funds for the implementation of health programmes have decreased by around EUR 420 million, while total resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Ministry of Health, have decreased by 38% from 2009 to 2012, including 2012. This government and our minister face the consequences of what governments have done before us – they have saved people. This trend has begun to change with our government's performance. In 2015, we spent more than €57.1 million on health activities than in previous years. We have also provided €1.7 million to pay for the health care of refugees. In 2016, however, we increased health care funding by €60.2 million, plus €15.9 million to reduce waiting periods by the end of this year. In your interpretation, you claim that the Minister is delaying the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre. This, of course, is a delusion. That's not true. As early as July 2015, the Ministry of Health approved the investment programme for the construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre and in its budget and in its budget, it also provided adequate financial resources for this. Therefore, the reason for not starting works in the Ptuj Emergency Centre is not on the Ministry of Health's side. The reason, you might say, is that the first is that Ptuj Hospital, General Hospital Ptuj did not guarantee its share of the financial resources to be provided, its own participation. Another problem is that General Hospital Ptuj wants an approved project, for which size and approval was based on criteria that are uniform for the whole of Slovenia, to increase by more than 20%, which means that the whole investment in re-approval to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must go. Waiting species. We have spent a lot of time in the National Assembly waiting lines, first at the meeting of the parent committee and then in the previous months at the plenary session, which was also an introduction to today's interpolation. There are several reasons for waiting species, so the problem is also multilayered and cannot be solved only by one measure. One of the reasons for waiting species is definitely the demographic trend. The population of Slovenia is ageing and the need for health services is increasing. This factor is affected, unfortunately, we don't. Another factor is the lack of doctors. Since 2003, specialization has been awarded by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. It is true that the proposal is eventually endorsed by the Minister of Health. Then I can ask myself how the proposed lists were reviewed by past ministers, because today's offer of specialist doctors in the labour market, given that the specialisation in Slovenia lasts six years, is not due to the failure of our minister, who is in fact the first to intervene in these proposed lists and correct them accordingly. And the results of her work will come with a delay. In the past, short-term measures have been taken to reduce waiting species. As a short-term measure, I consider the provision of financial resources. Why do I say this is a short-term measure? Because those financial resources that have been used in the past to reduce waiting stocks have not produced the fruits, at least not the ones they would have wanted. The waiting species are still here today. Our government has provided additional funding for the reduction of waiting lines, namely €7.7 million for the reduction of waiting periods and an additional €8 million for the first specialist reviews. However, our Minister has decided that the reduction of waiting species will be tackled in the long run. What does that mean? This means that she will find a solution that will have a long-term effect. First, she'll try to figure out the factors, find all the factors that affect the long waiting periods. Therefore, she decided to implement a project to shorten waiting hours in individual health institutions, so-called pilot projects. As part of these pilot projects, individual health institutions will analyse and, at the final stage, provide reasons and proposals for reducing waiting species. It is important to know that waiting lines will not be reduced unless new assignments are reduced. Special attention should be paid to this. One of the measures that will actually be the first to actually show the real state of the people waiting for different medical interventions is clearly eTravel. Why do I say that? Because all current lists will have to be cleared with the eTravel. Clean it up in a number of ways. The list will remove all patients who have not actually decided whether they really want to or not to intervene, all patients who are not medically able to undergo surgery, and all patients who have already done the service in another institution have not reported this and all patients who may be in the waiting line in several institutions. I can also give an example of good practice that has been introduced and has in fact proved to be a pilot project to reduce waiting hours in a health institution. Expert meetings between primary and secondary level doctors have been initiated. Coordination of communication between the primary and secondary levels has been introduced. A new service has also been introduced, which is called a consultation by a specialist doctor and a general medicine doctor. And what does this new service bring? This brings the general medical doctor, when he is not quite sure about further referral of the patient to the secondary level, to have the opportunity to consult a specialist by electronic means for advice. The specialist’s doctor has the opportunity to see the patient’s opinion and symptoms in the computer, sees his or her completion of the tests and gives his or her opinion to the primary medicine doctor whether the referral is appropriate and whether the referral is necessary, it is said that such a patient should be treated within a relatively short period of time, which they consider to be from about one to three weeks. On this account, those patients who do not actually need to be examined by a specialist will not be placed in the waiting line, but those who need it will come to the examination much faster. Of course, it is also important to note the responsibility of patients. What do I mean? In this way, I think it is wrong for a patient who is ordered to intervene not to report that he is unable to come into the procedure or to undergo an examination, because this actually makes it impossible for someone to take his place who is behind him in the waiting line. And now, to conclude, colleague Anja Bah Žibert said that American doctors don't strike and that American patients are satisfied with care. She forgot to add that these are the only patients who actually come to the doctor. Since many do not come to the doctor because of expensive health care and expensive health care, they are probably not included in the statistics. Here is a key gap in her view from the view of our minister and our party. We say that all patients are important, and in our system all patients come and deserve medical attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u72	Yes, my dear colleague, I know you've had it written on paper, but it's nice to have you listen to me. I said something that American doctors don't strike or strike right now. I said the American doctors are happy. They are because our doctors want to work there, too. I said the patients are happy. Why are the stoppers gathering? So that our children can get there or the adults can get there for surgery. That's right. And thirdly, I said crucially – that patients die there and with us, but because of the waiting types. The difference is that we care about public health and citizens and citizens are paying for it and yet they are dying. This is a fundamental difference between you and me, for we oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenko. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much, chairman. In my debate, I will point out in the introduction the final point I had in the presentation of the position of the United Left Group. Madam Minister, in the United Left, we are giving you support for the abolition of supplementary health insurance and for the abolition of privatisation concessions. And if you're serious about the defense of public health, you need this blood support. Because all measures that would step on the fingers of medical capitalism and insurance companies are torpedoed by the coalition SD and DeSUS. Together, we can go around them and finally push the medical and insurance lobby out of the system and put health care back where it belongs – away from profits and into the public domain. Here, Madam Minister, we offer you a hand and I recommend you accept it. Of course, we will not support the interpretation, but we cannot fully defend the Minister, because he has been in position for two years and has put the wrong strategy in charge of his department. She's betting on a dialogue with the medical-insurance lobby. With these people, there can be no dialogue with these institutions. Any minister who advocates public health and public well-being can only give way or go into open confrontation. And if the minister is going to confront these lobbyists, he has to realize that these are extremely powerful machines with a lot of money. The Insurance Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, the FIDES Union, the Medical Chamber, it's not a joke, kid. But in order for this conflict to take place seriously, it is necessary to find allies. We need to look for allies and we need to rely on them. And allies in the advanced reform of public health, cutting down privatisation hunters, are large union centres outside Parliament and within Parliament is such an ally of the United Left. I hope, Madam Minister, that you are aware of this and that you will take note of this. If I move forward, I will respond to some of the last discussions. The first point that has made me laugh is to say frankly, the Americanisation of our public health care, as suggested by the right opposition bloc there, and it has actually advocated in one of the previous discussions as a good thing that doctors are pleased with it that patients are pleased with it. Yeah, except for those 40 million Americans who can't afford this health system. And you know, on the other hand, the meadows have even a movement to make their health care more public than it is now. Presidential candidates, however, have, among the points at stake, those of the kind of democratic party, that their health care will be made more public. And this policy, on the other hand, has a lot of support. Why? Because there is no country in the world that would put as much money into health care as the United States does, and at the same time there is no country in the world that has as much health care and as much unfair health care as they have in the United States. And this is just some kind of health care that the medical and insurance lobby and right-wing parties want to bring to this side of the Atlantic to our Republic of Slovenia. Of course, in the United Left, we're not going to let that happen. Next, as far as the minister's statement on FIDES is concerned, the doctor's sentence or the doctor's statement is concerned. I mean, look, FIDES isn't a class rights union. FIDES is an interesting housing association for privileges very much like the Medical Chamber. And this caste, the privileged part of the medical profession is playing medical capitalism, they're interested in forging profits on patients. Here they make alliances with commercial health insurance companies. Of course, the primary interest of this privileged part of healthcare is the direct privatisation of health care through concessions. And with these representatives of the medical-insurance lobby, you don't talk, you don't negotiate, you don't back out. FIDES should be broken. Whether they will survive the privileges of the privatisation part of the medical profession or will survive Slovenian public health care and be strengthened in this quality. That's it. One or the other. There's no intermediate route. Come in. One of the polemics was the United Left, when we boarded Desus for public health, or in this coalition was Desus and SD, the insurmountable machinery for strengthening public health. Here I have to say that Desus has been in all governments, in the Yangtze or in the Nejansze governments since 2004. And in all these 10, 12 years, what have we rejected from public health? Has there been any serious progress? Did we cancel the supplementary health insurance? Have we cut our wings with privatisation concessions? None of this happened. So the story of Desus, a public health defender, doesn't drink water. Excuse me. You say one thing, you do the other, do the other thing. This is very similar to the Social Democrats, they have public in their language and private pockets in action. If I point out once again what we expect in the United Left from the Minister, the first thing here is definitely the abolition of supplementary health insurance, the replacement of this insurance with a solidarity public tax, which will be fair, which will cover all the benefits of an individual, including those of capital, and which will send EUR 60 million to commercial insurance companies and direct them to our public health system, because, of course, we all know that our public health system needs these tens of millions. Next, here are the concessions. These concessions need to be re-examined, unjustified concessions withdrawn. However, our public health system should be set up in a way that will no longer be necessary for the long term of these concessions. Almost €300 million of concession funds are being cut off annually and revenue surpluses over expenditure are being generated here. And again, these surpluses should be poured into the public health system, not into a private pocket. And finally, there are specialties that are in the hands of the Medical Chamber. Of course, these specialties must go under some democratic control in order to truly serve the interests of patients and the public health system, not to be feudalized there by the privileged part of the medical profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Jelka Godec, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u76	Now, I have something to say to this, regardless of whether she has not been attacked or defended by the Minister, but in part Mr Kordish has put matters on the motioner. I don't know which doctor had such a grudge against Mr. Kordish that the doctor's lobby was attacked. About this money flow in our public health care. The question for you is, United Left: Why, then, if this is a public health outflow, did you not support our proposals to prevent corruption? Why were you such opponents in setting up a Commission to prevent corruption? Can I answer what I have to say? The Commission of Inquiry in the area of the purchase and sale of venous braces is, of course, mainly affected by overpaid venous braces. It has been demonstrated that one supplier had a 74% market share in UKC Ljubljana and that this supplier purchased vascular support from Italy from a company that also owns Mladina. And now we are coming forward, and your political activist, Mr Strukelj, is sitting in Youth. This is the union headquarters that defends public health and poor people. That's why you were against him, Mr. Kordish. And these union headquarters with Mr. Struckle, I will ask you – how much does this Mr. Activist of yours deserve to be able to defend public health? Public health, where there is a lot of money running out in the area of corruption, and you were not in favour of this parliamentary inquiry, you were not in favour of our recommendations to prevent corruption in Slovenian health care, and today you are saying that our Slovenian health care is, of course, intertwined with a network of corrupt doctors and I do not know what kind of doctors, when this has to be supported, but no. And you say what the system is like in America. Our people, our moms are going with the kids to America because there's no treatment here because this is where they cancel or our public health care can't perform such operations. So you're proposing to these people who find help in America with those doctors because there are different reasons, whether doctors can't do it with us, there's no such operation, or they don't want to go there anymore. Let them wait at home with a child who is sick, even though the solution is actually there. Because ugly capitalism won't save our people. Is that your message? Your message should be No, no, no, no! Your message should be that public health is being strengthened here, that corruption is getting out of public health, that public health is enabling the full care of our patients. And stop with these flossules to get the union headquarters out of D.Z. to save public health and the minister. You gotta be kidding me. And you don't have to talk about such public health flossules about union centers, because then you're going to have to go to psychotherapy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u78	I only have one comment on that. The purpose of the health and anti-corruption initiatives of the SDS is solely and exclusively to mine the public health system, while key profitable practices in our health care are legalised. We have commercial health insurance, we have concessions. And here we have a serious, completely legal breach of private interest in the public interest, which is the definition of corruption. And finally, as far as the SDS investigative commission is concerned, I think the SDS will investigate corruption?Oh, my God! Does anyone else think that's funny in fact?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, Mrs Jelka Godec spoke as a proponent, so there was a possible replica of this. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u80	I suggest to the United Left that they bring in the necessary laws tomorrow, which will change everything you've been talking about, about insurance companies, about all of these lobbying that you've mentioned today. You have all the options, put in legislation, let some investigator do it, and everything will be fine. So stop talking, stop talking, I'll say, inflate in the National Assembly and have the legislation tabled. That's the solution. But you will have support because you also support the Minister and because you support public health.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Look, that's exactly what the Minister of Health was going to do, but it all stops in the coalition machinery because they're throwing sand at SD and Desus bicycles. Now the minister's ball to prepare these things comes to the United Left for public health support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Prepare Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenka and Mr Jan Škoberne. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is not my intention to argue with my colleague in front of me, but above all there is a good argument for such a big debate, and I will not mention it. Perhaps just to ensure that even if Comrade Kordish needed medical attention, he would still receive professional care. Don't worry, it's okay. There is quite a claim today, even in recent days, regarding the work of the Minister, and in particular regarding the work of those who sat in this hot chair in front of her. Given that I am the only one here today, I will still say a few words about this, although of course we are not at interpolation, neither am I, but nevertheless I think we owe it to myself to have some answers. First of all, all of us who have sat in this chair in recent years, and most of us have sat down less than the current minister, dealing on one side with past problems, of course, which we have not cooked ourselves, but are a problem that I will discuss a little later, and in some ways is also connected with the Minister, and of course also with current issues. On the one hand, it is of course very difficult to discuss as a former minister, given that I know what problems the Minister is facing and what can really be done, what short-term solutions are possible and which are those that can be carried out over a longer period. As it is said, of course, I was the Minister for a shorter time in two governments, at the time of the worst crisis. I'm talking about the period when the revenue of the Health Insurance Office was about 300 million lower than today, I'm talking about the period when we had negative economic growth, not plus 2.7% and so on. So, in fact, at a time that health has somehow managed to survive with major problems. But it managed to survive because of the measures we have taken and recognised by the WHO experts in their analysis: with the help of complementary insurance, with additional funding, which we have been able to provide with some reallocations despite the emergency crisis, not least by increasing the burden of supplementary insurance. I must say that at the time I had warned that, even at the expense of these transfers and additional burdens on supplementary insurance, there is no justification for raising the premium in these insurance companies. And here too, the Minister as the President of the Board of Directors has played her part in raising premiums and additional profits at the level of supplementary insurance, although we are speaking, of course, something else today, the damage and the way in which these additional insurance works. This is a fact, which is why I sometimes doubt that what I am listening to in the reorganisation itself and the desire for change in the field of these insurances. In addition, of course we have done a lot of other things, we have reorganised public health through legislation, today we have a National Institute for Public Health, a National Laboratory, we have adopted a new Law on Health Care and Insurance. We passed a law on patient rights or a novelty, a novel that would separate first examinations from checks, which is an additional problem. I think it's quite insulting to colleagues even before me, i.e. waiting periods did not begin to count in this mandate, but the number of pending patients was being monitored years ago. My predecessor, Dr. Marusic, was the one who adopted the Law on Patient Rights as a systemic measure, so I probably had a little less difficulty in waiting times than he had or as the minister today. But if there were no systemic solutions, see, a number of years ago, 10, 15 years ago, there was a problem, I don't know, heart surgery, and today there are other methods, and the waiting period is over. Today there are other problems, but to say that the problem was not dealt with, did not know, did not accept solutions, but also systemic ones, is at least incorrect. It was similar in other areas. You know, you have to admit that everything that is mentioned and is now done is, indeed, the emergency centres, by saying that, as we have already mentioned, the project started years ago. During my term of office, we carried out procedures, obtained building permits, selectors and the like. And then the project started. It is true, however, that the contents exactly how they will work, in what way, it was not then because it was in a hurry and because we had precise deadlines for how long the European funds should be spent, because otherwise these projects would have failed. Fortunately, they're not, and they're closing now. The same is true of course with eHealth. The project runs a series of years and the eRecept pilot project started in 2013 or 2014 at the beginning of 2014. And TeleKap is also from that period. I mean, I guess all of us sitting in this chair were doing our best to move health care a step further. Step towards the adoption of the reform. Unfortunately, most of us have not had the chance of being as fortunate as you are to have the President of the Government try to understand and support the implementation of the reform, because practically there is no country in the world to carry out health reform without the active assistance of the Heads of State or Government Presidents. And that is probably the main reason that we have not been able to carry out a complete reform in the past mandates as well. But, as it is said, I have not been able to reconcile it, and I find it difficult to accept the obvious, because the moment the discussion of the possibility of adopting reform ended for me, I accepted this responsibility and I resigned and left room for someone else who might be more successful. That's why, of course, I don't kind of accept the readings for that period because I think we did what we could. Now let's get to the more up-to-date stuff. Mr Trček mentioned resources, and I also think that resources are a key health issue at this point in time. Health care is faced with problems for 15 years, good 15 years, when they are more pronounced. And during this period, stories repeat. But where is the original sin? I hope that the main reason why public health problems started in Slovenia is the introduction of VAT. VAT was the first to result in a major intrusion into the health register, in contributions. That's when health began to lose over 100 million a year, public health. So, in all these years, it's lost over a billion and a half. And this includes the Minister of Health, who was then responsible for VAT at the Ministry of Finance as a financier, and the advocate of the higher VAT paid by health care. It's written down, I'm not making it up. That's why I'm saying that it's in its own kind of a fate game that today you are the ones who have to solve health financing problems because much of this has been triggered by you. During that period excise duties on alcohol and tobacco were also introduced. The argument was that health care would get some money because we're talking about substances, things that hurt health. And look at him, health didn't even get the euro, but he got the whole budget. All in the same period. And today, we are a country that spends the least money on the budget, given this, 3% about. In addition, WHO analysis has found that this system is dangerous, dangerous to health and we have experienced this in a period of crisis, because health funding is more or less from one source. Complementary insurance means only a small part of the health income. That is why I believe that you are in fact obliged to prepare and implement solutions under the Health and Health Insurance Act. The argument that there's too little money in health care is huge. If we compare countries and data, something has already been said today, Slovenia is spending thousands of €881 per capita, the neighbouring Austria is already investing 3 thousand 531 almost twice as much. By providing 30% of the budget and 3% of Slovenia. And, of course, it's hard to compare the systems between you. The average in OECD countries is EUR 2 000 587, which is almost 30% higher than the nationals of Slovenia. And here is one of my perceptions that people in Slovenia are simply deluded and that they are promised significantly more than we can offer them in this public health system, which we all advocate. And I find it difficult to accept the theory that all of us who have comments in this way are opposed to the public health system. Of course that doesn't count. I think that we all want the same thing, and that is why we all, without a fig in our pocket, supported a resolution that promises the public health system and even upgrades and improves it in the future. However, there were health problems that began with the intrusion into the health department. The ones who brought along the plasma of change. Since then, we have had severe restrictions on employment all the time. I was the director of the hospital during that period. We weren't supposed to hire doctors or nurses, nobody, because we were in trouble, losing. And, of course, that's why we've been talking about the lack of doctors since then, not the ZUJF. If we spoke from the ZUJF, we wouldn't have had more than a thousand young doctors in stock today who we don't know how to fund. But the problems started at the time, and that's when the hospital's losses started, and that's when the hospital's entire payoff started. Every year alone, hospitals and other contractors worked programmes that were not financed. That's why today, I don't know, 118 million hospital losses from this address. But I find it hard to understand why hospitals are now losing so much more money than they had last year or before. Harder to understand. If we go a little bit to support what the current budget means. Last time we considered the health budget as an interested labour force. It's true, there's more to the investment. And that's good. That is why an emergency centre in the UKC will turn out to be, which is certainly thanks to the Minister. I don't have any doubts here. On the other hand, there is a major problem, which is that in the state budget we still have zero health services. So, as advocates of public health, like those who have support, the Minister has the support of the President, so far nothing seems in the budget. And I can hardly imagine how this public health service will work in the coming year. Indeed, we have already eaten this year's wage harmonisation and 33 million already, which provides for additional revenues from the CFSP at the expense of economic growth and new jobs. Where are the new doctors? Where are the negotiations with the public sector? And that 33 million already means either a greater loss of hospitals or fewer health services, not a reduction in waiting periods with this money. In fact, without additional resources, public health is currently extremely poor. That is why we have been critical, and we have also said in the introduction that the priorities chosen by the Minister are wrong. I agree that smoking should be limited because it is harmful in the long run and it will be less painful and less costly in the long run. But right now, we have a priority somewhere else. Even for concessions, I do not think there is any concern that they should not be awarded by public tendering. But concessionaires don't present a particular problem right now. They work, people are happy with them. But the problem is that public institutions don't have enough money because they can't work. That is why we have placed a condition on the Minister to prepare first what she has set a deadline for — the Health and Health Insurance Act. Because it will only make clear what we really intend to do with complementary insurance, what we really intend to finance from the budget. It'll show you what happens to a basket of rights. It'll be obvious there. For now, we only have promises. But of these promises, patients are disgruntled, dissatisfied, and stressing this ill will, of course, on the health staff. Therefore, the expectation that we will discuss honestly once again what this country can offer in the context of public health. While we must be aware that when we talk about public health, we must provide public funds. So far there is no spirit or hearing about them – for health programs. In this way, it can be in principle a public health advocate and, on the other hand, the system is certainly in serious trouble at the moment, and if this is not recognised, then I think we will all have problems together. Another thing is, of course, a major problem, which is indeed a lack of dialogue. I don't know who to trust. I know, in view of the experience we have within the coalition when we are talking about one-year harmonisation of a law. Please! We've talked about this marriage several times, I don't know if we've spent half an hour or four times for it. This is a one-year negotiation. I can now imagine what negotiations are like with the other partners. This way, there will be no law. And that we don't know today, Minister, about the marriage that will go out in December, what it says. Look, I'm sorry, it's not a negotiation, it's not a dialogue, it's not a cooperation, and if we're such big public health opponents, we'll have comments on that. That is why I said that I hope that this debate today will be more encouraging to think about something to do in a slightly different way. As a doctor, I want public health. And that doesn't mean health, where the state has to determine everything. That's state health. The fact is, of course, that all the countries around us are engaged in health reform, because of course the reasons are similar everywhere and it is probably a shame to lose words about these reasons. I am afraid of the desires and aspirations that also come from the Brussels side, but even the share of the GDP we are earmarking for health care should be reduced. By already being in a significantly worse position, we are in a significantly worse position. That is why I really look forward to this law and what solutions will be there, because public health depends on it. Not from the fact that we're going to stop, I don't know, a hundred concessionaires, where someone else will be satisfied. As it is said, choosing priorities, irregular promises to patients and, of course, dialogue. I think that if we clean up these three things or clean them up in a short time, we have done a great deal to start working together again, talking and getting to a good marriage. Since the Act on Pharmacy, where we opposed it, we did not stop it, although it could be voted on, it had a similar solution at its final stage as I had thought about when we made the law. Nevertheless, it will be significantly easier to correct it now, of course, if there is will and dialogue, as it would have been last night at the meeting. Look, if we don't change the way we work and start talking honestly and specifically, not just by planting flowers and promises, then we won't come anywhere, then this is going to be a big disappointment for this coalition, for the government, and of course for you. And with this unwavering support, the President has indeed taken on a tremendous responsibility. That's why I appreciate it. I hope he doesn't regret it either. By putting pressure on him too, I hope that he will help you so much more, that you will agree that a step forward in public health will also be taken. Because for now it doesn't show; from these documents we have, it doesn't show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't think any of the doctors have given me the same hard feelings. I am taking the stand against that narrow part of the medical profession, which is in particular in the leadership of medical organisations, and who just wants to grab and privatise public health, not even about the whole of it. Most of this medicine, I hope to bet, supports public health and is not nearly privileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenka has the floor to prepare for Mr Jan Škoberne and Branko Zorman. Here you go, Mrs. Chimenka.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u89	Mrs. Susana, it looks like the microphone's not working. How much rest do you need? All right, turn it off, please. So two minutes off. All right, here you go, Mrs. Susanna Pretty Chimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u90	We hope to hear from you now. And since I haven't been heard, I'm going to repeat some things. The day was a huge promise. The promises were made during the election campaign and during the two years of the Minister's ministry, but unfortunately nothing was done in this area. There has not been a health reform that has been promised for so long. One law has not been passed which would slightly improve the area in the health system itself. You haven't done anything about corruption. You haven't done anything about waiting periods. In essence, waiting days are prolonged from day to day, and this is also shown by data from the National Institute for Public Health. The case that I said at the end, a specialist ambulance, a travel agent — a fast, rheumatological ambulance — has more than half of all those waiting for more than 480 days. That means more than 16 months. These numbers are really worrying. It's similar in orthopaedics, urological outpatients, and so on. That we're not even talking about the financial situation. During your ministry, the financial situation has deteriorated significantly both in hospitals and in public institutions. If we look at the results of the first six months of this year, 29 of which created a loss totalling EUR 118 million. In the first half of 2016 there were 14 hospitals operating negatively, the biggest loss of course was UKC Ljubljana worth EUR 12.37 million. In the first half of the year! Here are the people you have recruited at the head of UKC Ljubljana, and I hope that these are not the consequences of this recruitment. All citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are paid in health bills. As has been said, 97% of health care is financed from paid contributions and, of course, from the contribution we still pay to individual services that are paid. Only 3% is budgeted, unfortunately or fortunately for them, sometimes the situation is not the same, it is significantly different. The health situation is best known by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. They're dealing with problems. For years they may not have needed medical attention, but unfortunately the situation will cause them to need it. And what happens? Waiting species, wherever they come. Is this a proper system, Your Honourable Minister? On the other hand, as has already been said, they can go, I don't know, to a private person in Croatia, they are treated differently, they are treated faster, they get all services in almost one place, and also this service is paid the same. Don't you think you need to make some changes in this area? You've been doing a lot of emergency work today. Luckily, they're working. Ten of them are working. Fortunately, also because 2015 was the last year when European funds had to be drawn up and those ten were financed from European funds of some €42 million. Unfortunately, one emergency center doesn't work. That's Ptuj. I am really pleased that you have provided 1.9m euros in the 2016 budget, but I am not pleased that construction did not start this year on Ptuj. Indeed, one particular feature is compared to other emergency centres. It is true that Ptuj Hospital is not in shining numbers, much like the others or much better at doing business than any other hospital. Yeah, Ptuj should be looking for a share of co-financing and that's not, and of course that's your excuse, because now the Ptuj emergency centre isn't or hasn't started building this year. But you were offered some solutions. All that would be necessary would be to sit down with another minister and representatives, I will say, local authorities and representatives of the Ptuj Hospital – and agree and find a solution. Then you promised to fight like a lioness, get an emergency center Ptuj asset and be built. Why don't you fight now and find the right solution for this emergency center? Once again, I am truly grateful that you have dedicated these funds in the 2016 budget, and I am concerned about the fact – why? Since the Ptuj Emergency Centre did not start building this year, why did you not provide these funds both in the balance sheet and not for 2018? That 1.9 million is so much like lost. I don't think they'll be able to make it this year if they start building an emergency center tomorrow. That's impossible now. I am truly interested in what the fate of the Ptuj emergency centre is now. You've been given solutions, but you haven't come with them more than likely. If you then promised to fight like a lioness, give now and find a suitable solution. I think that around 120 000 citizens and citizens around Ptuj and Ormoža deserve to be treated equally. Last but not least, in your introduction today, you said that all insured persons must have equal opportunities for health care. If there is no emergency centre on Ptuj, unfortunately this will not be fulfilled. So I really want to know what the fate of the Ptuj emergency center is now. Of course, I support the interpretation itself. I think there have been more than enough reasons for the interpretation to be justified here today. There is no health reform, and there is no more than obvious coordination within the coalition as it should be. I do not believe that individual laws will be ready by the end of the year, as of course you state it, because you are actually extending these dates from 2015, first in the spring, then the end of the year, and now it is the end of 2016. The waiting species are increasing and the financial situation is deteriorating. There is really no reason and, last but not least, you have done nothing to reduce corruption, so there is no reason why this interpolation should not be supported. I personally estimate that she is more than justifiable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good evening! I consider today's almost 15-hour session more as a public presentation of opinions than mere interpretation, i.e. by the instrument as it has been invested, and I am also trying to understand it in this context. In this respect, both the proposer and the minister exchanged some ideological, some conceptual, and some very creative dilemmas around solutions and approaches concerning the issue of the resolution of the Slovenian health system. The general conclusion that we could draw is that we all want effective, quality, responsive and, above all, sustainable public health. It does not matter that it is only public; it is also important that it is of quality and especially accessible to the patient when needed at a time when this is the most beneficial for the patient. In this context, the only key question is how to provide funding systems in the long run and how to prevent what has been rakrana for the past two or more decades is the corruption risks within the system we have. The Minister took up two and a half years or two of the extremely difficult tasks now ahead of completion. I hope that the laws announced come in December, and I hope that we will also answer the question of how to finance the sustainable public health system in the long term, because demography tells us that there will be more and more people with an increased risk of being affected by the need for health care. We Social Democrats, of course, believe that this can be within a single pillar health insurance system, and we will see what solutions will be. What seems most important at this point is that this is not happening in conflict with any of the stakeholders, but that it is taking place in dialogue. Because [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkrajšek and Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go, Mr. Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u94	President, thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers, nice greetings! We're on a show today, and I call it a video clip, and we can't even call it an interpolation. At best, this could be referred to as klipping interpellation, given that the SDS proposalr has been able to complete 17 pages of the text justifying why the Minister should be interpreted and why she should not do her job properly. Of course, 189 pages of newspaper articles have been added to this in their creative pianist manner, so that you praise, make progress; 17 is more than ever. Initially and repeatedly today, it has been said that public health is the priority of this ministry and this minister, as well as the priority of the SMC. SMC, of course, supports this minister because he advocates and fights for public health, but many of today's debaters have forgotten to say that he is fighting for public health, which is, is and will be accessible to all citizens of this country, regardless of their social status. And this is very important: regardless of social status. This is said not only to be accessible to the rich, but to be accessible to all. Even if they don't have one euro in their wallet right now. The SDS Interpreter and some other actors, some other stakeholders, of course, joined forces and prepared this interpretation, and they were joined by someone else, another of our colleagues, who did not understand that today's point of intervention was the Minister's, but thought that we were talking about him and his past work or deed, which he did not finally personally confess. If I go back to these interest groups. These stakeholders, of course, do not want to lose the power, position and all the ratings they enjoy in the current system and will, of course, do everything to ensure that this minister does not remain. Since the main rule is that the Minister must not remain until the end of the term of office, it is clear to everyone today that the changes that are planned and predicted will happen. Just a brief contact with the coalition decision on a single law will not prevent this, so the Minister must fall. I will continue to talk mainly about concessions. Here I have to correct the representative of the interpellation proposer, who, of course, has been explaining all day how the concessionaire is not a private person. Of course, the concessionaire is a private person because he is not employed in a public health institution, but is a private person who operates in some legal form either as a sole entrepreneur or as a d. Oh, whatever. So that this doesn't go away and we're going to turn the word here and there, I'm going to read what concession means. Concession means the form of a public-private partnership, so when a private person – I stress, a private person who is a status private and as a private person remains after obtaining a concession – by obtaining a concession, he gets the right to carry out a public health service, i.e. a public health service. So here there is no doubt, the concessionaire is of course a private and this is nothing wrong, because it needs some legal form so that it can work. Let it be clear in this place, as the proposer tries to say repeatedly that SMC is against concessionaires. No! No! When did we say that? Far from it, concessionaires have been, are and will be part of the public health system, but it cannot be as you say that the health and public health network is on concessionaires. We have hospitals that are public health institutions, we have health homes that are public health establishments and they are established either by municipalities or by the state and we have this network. And what this network cannot provide is provided by concessionaires for a number of reasons: either that for example, a public health institution cannot cover certain services or spatially, or whether it is possible to purchase specific equipment in which this public health institution may not see some coverage, and in this case the founder grants concessions to the concessionaire. So concessionaires are good because they complement the network, which is basically made up of public health establishments. Well, we never said we were against concessionaires. And more; what the proposer is also trying to do with the game of words is to even end the concession with a new proposal for the Health Activities Act. It doesn't say that anywhere, at least not for the writers. In short, I posted a video on my social network yesterday, which, of course, was quick to comment by the proponent, but I see that we have a problem with understanding here again, and I would like to explain. In the statement I have made, I am talking about the need for concessions to be awarded transparently in a public invitation to tender, as well as the new bill provides for, and not just so, without rules and without calls, as has been the case in the past — sometimes. I'll explain. Of course, the proposer contacted and wrote that this insults all concessionaires who have added value to their hard work. I don't know where she understands from this that I'm against concessionaires because I've been pointing to the bad practice of those who have given, not those who have been awarded concessions. That's one of the things. Then, of course, the comment goes on to say that we will end them; whether concessions should therefore be abolished and so on, which, of course, shows clearly the misunderstanding of my statements. When I say that concessions have been granted in the past in a non-transparent way, I mean that they have been awarded without public invitations to tender. Here we must be honest, and we must say that the municipalities, the real local communities, when they grant concessions, are largely awarded through public tendering, as is the case with the existing legislation. These are concessions that concern, to say primary health care, the level of health homes. Of course, the problem has been at the level of ministries in the past, where ministers have awarded concessions without public invitations – since 2007, since the Law on Public-Private Partnership has been in force, at least against the rules – and even for an indefinite period of time. We even have such matters, knowing exactly that the concession always has a period of validity. If we can say that the concession is awarded without a public invitation to tender, transparency, then we are once again in difficulty with understanding. This is not transparent for me, because in this case it does not allow it, I do not say that it is, but allowing some corrupt act where a certain concessionaire is awarded a concession, the one who obtains the concession will take note with the then minister who grants the concession without a public invitation to tender, if you wish. And that's not transparent. That is why this must be regulated by law, and that is why this Minister with the law, with the proposal of the law that is coming, regulates it. And whoever can resist it - something is wrong. Where this lack of transparency in history has led to, I'll try to show you on the case. For example, since 2000 onwards. For example, from 2000 to 2004; the Minister, the only one with a full mandate who has completed a four-year mandate – 25 concessions awarded on a secondary level, at a specialist level. That's the one the minister grants, not the local community. Then comes this famous period 2004 to 2007, when Minister Andrej Bručan was Minister, this is said to be in the government of Janez Janša, 126 concessions awarded, not one with a public invitation to tender. 126 of those 126 in one night 50. Now I don't know if you're making a fool out of citizens who are watching and listening, and you're talking about everything being transparent and O.K., and you don't have to deal with it. 126 concessions, 50 in one night! Then the following Minister – not to mention names – 9 concessions, the following 4, 3, 7, were ministers and ministers for no awarded concessions. I think the numbers speak for themselves and don't have to add much anymore. I would like to reiterate that we are not against private parties, we are not against concessions, concessions are a good thing, but the area must be regulated that the award of these concessions, regulation, operation and so on, is transparent and in accordance with the rules. And that's all it's about! As some do not fit, of course, at this point the attitude towards the Minister had to be sharpened, and this interpretation is the result of both political and, I hope to say, interesting pressure. At the outset, the Minister said that she would fight for public health until the end, so we will support her in the SMC. I believe that everything announced will come true, as far as legislation and other matters are concerned, and will therefore have our support. At the same time, I am sure that fate will not befall her, which has hit some of her predecessors who threw the rifle into the corn before they finished their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Ms. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u96	Mr. Zorman, your publication on this internet network was initial; and before interpolation and pre-election it could be called. Because the right direction, the right direction, these are pre-election flags; so you're obviously getting ready for the election. I never said that concessions granted in the past did not have to be sanctioned. That is exactly what I am calling for you to do in this session and in previous sessions. Therefore, once again, I do not know how many times, I call on you to apply to the relevant authorities for those who are awarded concessions overnight. At the same time, I ask the following question: Do concessionaires work poorly, all concessionaires work poorly? Even those 50s, are they doing bad? What would happen if there were no concessions? Mr Zorman, the matter is just so far away that you are now making a public statement that former Minister Bručan was working illegally, untransparently, past the invitation to tender; and these are serious accusations. Once again, I expect you to report to the relevant authorities and to investigate these matters if you, Minister, do not want to analyse them, you do not want to publicly and loudly say which concessionaires are with a friendly visit, friendly relationships, as you said, receiving concessions. Again, these are serious accusations. I hope you are also aware that you are aware of these consequences that will follow. And once again, report! Do not brag about networks that advocate public health, how you feel about public health, at the same time laugh when you say that, or make fun of the proposer. So, Mr. Zorman, again, explain to me who these concessionaires are; with names and surnames! Now you've told the minister, and now I'm wondering, what concessionaires are these? You obviously know something about this. There are interesting lobbying behind us, interesting pressures, please answer that. What interesting lobbying, the pressure of interest, is behind the motion for an interpretation? I'm really interested. I told you, Earthling is not our option. It's not. If the Minister has found, and you too, that the concessions were untransparent, without a public invitation to tender – after two and a half years now you explain it?Oh, my God! After two and a half years, you have now come to realize that this is something that needs to be changed! But you didn't say whether the concessionaires are doing well or not doing well or selling, inheriting, I don't know what. Explain that! Tell me, you still have time, a replica, explain to me which concessionaries, why this has occurred, what friendly visits have been made, and then take action! You're also asking us to act through as a proponent. Question once again: What interesting pressures — for God's sake — do the opposition prohibit us from supporting the minister? Yeah, what do you want me to support? What kind of marriage should I support? What marriage, Mr. Zorman? What marriage, I ask you. None of the laws in the normative plan were in the National Assembly, except the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, which the coalition colleagues have already told you about and how the coordination was. So, then interesting – what did you say? – The pressure is also exerted on your coalition colleagues. Once again, the opposition does not have enough votes to block health reform in the National Assembly. Stop this manipulation because you didn't even bring one law into the National Assembly. One marriage, Mr. Zorman! After two and a half years, you're talking about how the Minister of Concession is going to arrange what was illegal, untransparent, without a public invitation to tender, but you don't tell who, where, when. Now, make that clear, because now I have enough of this to talk to you, I don't know how long it's been going on. Tell me who! Who, where, when did he get such a concession? And what you've been publishing, that's Piaronic, I'll say, spin or whatever, you're public health. Yeah, if you're in public health, then give these concessions an analysis first, tell them who was doing bad, who got them anyway. The Minister did not grant concessions, gave consent, once again, and the Law on Public-Private Partnership talks about how to grant concessions, and not say that it is not now. And now you'll do anything. Not that it isn't! Once again, I urge you to clear up here, in the National Assembly, what was the situation with these concessions and what interesting pressures stand for the opposition and for coalition or coalition parties that did not support the only, as the Minister says, reform law in the National Assembly. This is probably what those who voted for the last time to withdraw from the Pharmacy Act for a period of time for public presentation of opinions would also like to hear. As long as you're just mixing the fog and talking, we're in public health, but at the same time we didn't support our proposals and nothing, and the minister never comes into line with the opposition – because we've heard of the coalition as things go on – then your words are empty for so long and they're only a discreditation of the motioner of interpolation and the discreditation of the opposition. You'd like everyone in the National Assembly to press the button as you say. I want an answer from Mr Zorman, but if Mr Zorman does not respond, I want an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Branko Zorman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u98	President, thank you for your word. Given that Godce's colleague has asked several times today, she has asked for answers, apparently she still doesn't, because she's still asking, and because she really has enough, I also feel obliged to answer it from this point of view, and of course also substantively, because she obviously didn't understand me correctly. That the award of concessions that have been unlawfully granted must be sanctioned; I absolutely agree with you, but now allow me to explain to you, because of course you are fighting for your former minister. He was Minister from 2004 to 2007. At that time, the Law on Public-Private Partnership, which explicitly stipulated that each concession must be awarded by tender, had not yet been in force. By invitation to tender and for a certain period below. [[advertising from the hall.]] Yeah, but it's gonna take another 11 times, because you obviously don't understand. In short, these concessions were awarded without invitation to tender at a time when the law had not yet imposed that they should be awarded by public tender. Let me finish, so with this very thing, they were not unlawfully distributed and I did not say that they were illegal. I told you they were intransparency, and I'll tell you again why they were untransparent. If you grant 126 concessions to 126 specialists who are probably justifiable and doing their job well, I don't know if they were needed at the time, but it's very unusual that you just give 126 concessions over a period of time, but before that was this pace – I told you what, a few concessions a year – and another 50 per night, then no one will convince me that something was wrong here. It may be just a suspicion of clientism or a suspicion of corruption, but I am not the authority to pursue it or to investigate it, nor is it my duty — if you are asking me exactly what my duty is. But it is my duty to discuss here, as it is yours. Let me get on with it. If 126 concessions are awarded without an invitation to tender, here again, I repeat, the possibility of some irregularities is costly. I think I've said a lot. For those who want to understand, they will understand, but those who are convinced cannot be convinced. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ms. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u100	Now you've said what you said before – you've just wanted people to be conscious. Now you're saying that the marriage wasn't when these things would have been done, which I've already said before. You were talking about the amount of corruption, the friendships. In the past, not long ago, there have been enough indications for you to take the mandate of a Member, and now I suspect that it is not enough for you to report to the authorities. Of course, Mr. Zorman, you are not the authority to investigate this, but you are obliged to report these matters – yes, Mr. Matić, it is very funny, but it is your dual morality – and you are obliged to report it to the authorities that are investigating it if you suspect that 126 awarded concessions, in one night 50 – are sounding like a night of long knives – have been granted and you have all the right and duty as a Member, because you have been chosen to arrange these things too, report it is your duty to report to the law enforcement authorities. Mr. Zorman, I invite you again to report these clienteleistic contacts, these suspicions of yours and these suspicions will then be investigated and concluded by the authorities. I think that Mr Minister will also be pleased that the concessionaires will also be pleased, and that we will finally know who they are to receive concessions in this ugly way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zorman, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u102	Mr President, thank you for your floor. My colleague, Godcheva, did not understand me correctly, I did not explicitly say in my implementation that since 2007 concessions granted past the invitation to tender, which I think are illegal. [[…]] However, I have now explained that, in the course of your Minister's time, this law had not yet been in force, it entered into force at the end of his ministry. So I didn't fool anyone completely, because in the introduction, before I talked about the numbers, I told you exactly what I was talking about and what period and what conditions I was talking about. But we can still go with this ping-pong.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec [[…]] Procedural mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr President, I propose that you explain to the honourable SMC that what he is saying is ten years ago and now he is doing a media spin here, as it is called, or a SMC-style mental spin, to talk about something 10 years ago, instead of how the waiting species have been extended during the current SMC-member minister, and that even so, death victims have occurred at this time. If there was anything wrong, Sir, you were obliged to file an indictment under criminal law, if you knew of it, or at least a notice. You've been in power for two years, ladies and gentlemen! Shame on you to look back at what happened, but you say with your finger, there's been something wrong for ten years! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have been in power for two years, if anything was wrong, you have been chosen to fix it and put an end to it. If you haven’t done this in two years, be patient because you’re incompetent!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Of course I won't warn people what to say. Good. Mrs. Jelka Godec as a proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u106	I'm wasting my time with Mr. Zorman anyway, but anyway. Under the Penal Code, that is also what Mr Grimes has now said, if you know if you suspect corruption, you are obliged to report it to the authorities. In case you don't report it, it's your own fault that this is happening. So you're protecting corruption at all ends and places, Mr. Zorman. And if you don't want this back, then I'm asking you about the current issues – the heart valves, the ventricles, the skipping waiting days with corruption. Who reported you doing anything on this? No! No! The minister is pleased that no one from the Ministry has been reported to be in Nova Gorica. Now I'm asking you, what have you done now? You suspect different things, suspect how corrupt doctors have reported anyone? [[…]] You didn't! Morally ethical SMC! That's your morale. If you suspect, Mr. Zorman, of corruption during Minister Bručan's time, report matters! Now, now! Otherwise, you are involved in these matters, protecting corruption as much as possible, and protecting those lobbies behind you. But you did not answer me which lobby is behind us and behind the coalition MPs, who did not vote on the law that you would like to pass through because it is unconstitutional and I do not know what else. Mr. Zorman, enough of this bluff in the National Assembly and protecting corruption. Report the matter!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Zorman, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. My colleague is asking me to do something I've been alerting me to, but what she has just said must be replicated. You, the SMC, who have been in government and politics for two years, are calling on us to announce and report irregularities that have taken place in connection with the veins. That's really sad. Please tell us that you are the President of this commission of inquiry, and tell us also what period of investigation is being investigated and what period we already know today that these irregularities have taken place. Long before SMC came into this house! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, wouldn't you like to go a little further with the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u110	An excuse: we have been in the government for two years, we have been in politics for two years, and that is too much for you. Two years is too much for you because in two years you haven't done anything, you're not even capable of reporting corruption. You barely chewed up a parliamentary investigation. I can't say otherwise. And the lobbies don't stick to the opposition; the lobbies stick to the coalition, to the ruling party, and not to us. Answer me which lobby is behind us. What lobby, Mr. Zorman? And I'm accusing you. Yeah, of course I'm accusing you of going back, but if you're talking about going back. If you're talking about Brucan, 50 per night concessions. Hello? I also asked you about the heart valves, I asked you about Nova Gorica, I asked you about the Oncology Institute – nothing about that. And that's during your two-year term. But you're not almonds, because you haven't been in politics since yesterday, because I don't know how long you've been in politics. And now you're pleading for two years, "but we're not to blame." That's the question. What about in these two years? Don't say you couldn't do anything in two years. Because in corruption, it's enough to be one day, and you see something going on in there, and you're going to report it. That's enough. All the new affairs that are coming — you are not responding at all. You say you can't do anything. You've only been here two years. On the other hand, you say how many years you've done. Now I really don't understand you, two years is too much, but once too little; for corruption is too little, but for some things it is too much. Answer me then, which lobby, Mr. Zorman, if you do not want to answer whether you will report Mr. Bručan and the concessionaires. Are you going to do anything against corruption? Then answer that. Because this ends up finding that money is flying through a window, and people are waiting in rows, and that's what's bothering them. They skip the species by paying the doctors. And you know it. But you won't report it, because you've only been here two years.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Janja Slug and Master Branko Grimes. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u112	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Nice greetings for both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! We've been talking all day about health care that's in trouble, and I feel like we don't understand each other. In this term of office, which has been more than two years, over half, we have gone with two ministers from one extreme to another. To remind all the citizens and citizens present, a few months ago it was necessary to resolve the Minister for Culture, of course, at the proposal of the President of the Government, who did not wish to comply with one decision. Of course, which was not good and proper! So she had to leave. Today we are talking about the Minister of Health. Here too, two questions are asked — is it better that nothing has been done or that we talk about why nothing has been done? Of course, we are speaking today because public health is at risk in Slovenia, especially the health of citizens and citizens. All day long, I listened attentively to the Chairman of the Health Committee and the Vice-President – of course, for the last time. I hope they're both still in the coalition. When you listen to these two all day, you see something's really wrong. If I had to sign under what words today, I would certainly have signed under the words of the President earlier. But I don't understand the Vice-President of the Health Committee, and that's what he's worried about. It also ensures that there are no systemic solutions. It has been more than two years and it is very difficult for me to understand also the President of the Government that he has taken such a firm stand for a minister who has no results after two years. Of course, a two - year work or a faulty work will have long - term consequences. The President of the Government claims, and the Minister, that what has not been done in two years will be done by December. I think that we are all here full-year, that we have done something in life and that at least we all know what health reforms in the Republic of Slovenia mean. I'm afraid six months or eight months is too short a time to coordinate. But I hope to say at least one year. Of course, there is no fact, nor does today's finding that, Madam Minister, your term of office has increased by 30%. You wanted to convince us today that you began to love these waiting periods in your mandate. That's not true. Three or four ministers are already involved. This indicator, this estimate of 30%, is certainly correct. Of course, it is unacceptable for me to point out just one example — an orthodontist to wait with one child for two years to be examined, but in case he needs an apparatus, this time is 6 years. It is unacceptable to collect stoppers in Slovenia for children as well as for the elderly. But do we have any idea how many tons of stoppers there are? But a ton doesn't mean much. The fact is, there are 29 health institutions, hospitals in red numbers. Let me mention the UKC, in your mandate, of course I don't blame all of you, from 8 million to 19 million. And while I'm at UKC, let me touch personnel matters, there were a lot of them in your mandate. You didn't have any personnel matters in line, and you've already come to the hospital and made a statement that you're backing this candidate. It wasn't any of that. And I'm mentioning this because I think you're in a lot of trouble in your field. It is concerned, however, that the reforms required by the Republic of Slovenia in health care – of course, it is unacceptable that it is neither harmonised nor at least presented to the opposition – but it is horrifying that coalition partners today say they do not even know it. Here is the month of November, and you claim to us, here in the National Assembly, that you will put it to life in December. This is what you say to us, and you also claim to be citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it would be wise for us to listen more today and to be aware of the purpose of this interpretation. I don't know you personally, so personally I have nothing against you. However, I think it is right that the National Assembly should consider supporting this interpretation to the benefit of your ministry and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For if this does not happen today, it will most likely happen in December or January. Because those promises that something will happen in a month in such an important and challenging area as health care, I think it's a fairy tale. I think it is wrong to sell fairy tales to our citizens and citizens in such an important area as health care. Of course, with responsibility, I will support this interpolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Podkoršek. The word has Mrs. Janja Slug, prepare to be mag. Branko Grims and Mrs. Anita Kolesh. Lady Servant, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Today we are talking about health care, and I can say that being a doctor is in fact much more than just a profession. Being a doctor is a mission and is actually a way of life with which you save other lives. Therefore, I am very sorry that this profession as a very common and needed increasingly is being abused for some political or for some very narrow individual purposes. That the public is exposed to the most and always only those cases that shed bad light on the medical profession, because I think it's unfair for all those doctors who are mostly doing good, even great. In such cases, I first wonder how many times in these cases and how the Medical Chamber reacts. The answer is, of course, very few times and even when it reacts, it reacts only under very severe pressure. If we can only recall the cases of Radan and recall the case of Zimmerman. Of course, we all remember the case of child heart surgery, what happened at the time. The prosecutor concluded that the first three cases of death had already become obsolete. However, the fourth case is still not outdated, but it is, and I now quote, in his opinion: "It is not a professional error or a suspicion of any crime." And for the chamber, that's how the case is closed. We all ask ourselves in a row here, including doctors, what is the point of controlling the chamber if controls or things end with such arguments. If I somehow stop now in the latest case of waiting species. Almost at the same time, when we found out about this case, we also learned the name of an intermediary who worked between bribers and doctors. At the same time, we also found out which of the officers was involved in the case and almost simultaneously a very sharp police response. Who are the bribed doctors, and we still don't know that, and today the Medical Chamber is still silent. You could say that in this case, he's very strong in saying that crows don't just turn off their eyes. I am particularly sensitive when I see that children are being abused for such political intrigues. When I went to the Ministry of Health to review the chronology of the measures, I found that, in essence, the solutions had been actively prepared since 2013. On 3 July 2013, the Minister of Health, by decision, ordered exceptional administrative supervision, i.e. the only supervision for which the Ministry of Health is responsible, namely administrative supervision, control of the legality of the functioning of the University Clinical Centre, and the report on this supervision was drawn up on 14 May 2014. What did he find out? A number of irregularities have been identified; irregularities related to the work of the chief surgeon, in relation to documentation, regarding the training programme for children's cardiocryurgy, and that I am not now listing everything. However, the matter was not healed at the time. And what has the Medical Chamber done again? On 22 September 2015, the Medical Chamber proposed to regulate a system of rare or particularly demanding subsidiary skills. Thus, the Medical Chamber failed to exercise its control, and when forced to do so because of pressure, they found that it was not the fault of the child’s death that had become obsolete. At that time and, of course, at that time, the Ministry of Health did what was possible in such a situation. It is working to change the rules that will prevent such things from happening in the future. The Minister has therefore drawn up amendments to the legislation which will, inter alia, regulate this area, namely the arrangements for joint so-called system controls prepared by the Minister in the amendment of the Health Act and would actually combine the controls that I have already mentioned, with proper administrative supervision and all the content that is checked through professional supervision, advice and organisational aspects. In fact, such a merger and such an approach would increase the quality, as well as in my opinion, the effectiveness of the controls themselves and the possibility of introducing systemic changes to each operator that would be monitored individually. Let me add that the amendment to the Health Act is currently in intersectoral coordination. The Minister has also prepared a Regulation on the professional completion of healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals. In addition to the general requirement for professional professional fulfilment, this also includes a requirement for complementarity in the field of health, professional ethics, basic recovery procedures and health quality and safety. A public debate is concluded for this Regulation and the Regulation is expected to be adopted this year. The Minister is also preparing a system of quality and health safety in a new law for which a working group has already been established in September and has already started working. What if I've talked about doctors and medical professions before? Today in Slovenia we have over 5,000 500 doctors and doctors with a license. The Faculty of Medicine, Ljubljana and Maribor, produce them, as we have already determined or recorded before – better use this term – about 250 years ago. Of course, how many of these do they graduate, let's say we assume that somehow such a number. This is said to be 250 of the most capable young students and these students have spent an average of a long time studying to train themselves to be fit to take care of our health. I think that we can all claim here that medical studies are not comparable to any other study – even after a period of six years, even after difficulty. These students become doctors who work with severely ill and damaged people, that is, a profession that is indispensable to us. It is unacceptable to face the problem of lack of health care in all these facts. However, such a situation has been inherited by the Minister from past governments, and it seems ridiculous to me that she is being blamed here, but if we all know that specialization lasts for five years. So it is more than a minister's mandate; whether we look forward or backward. Therefore, the Minister cannot be held responsible for the lack of specialists in any field. Data on the duration of the specialisation, if we look at them and compare them with other countries, we can see that we are somehow on average or more closely following those countries that have more time-consuming specialisations. For example, an anaesthesia is a minimally defined three-year specialisation, which is held in 21 countries, of which in 11 countries lasts five years, in six six years, as is the case with us. However, there is one country with only three years of specialisation and two countries with four years of specialisation. For example, in pediatrics there is a minimum number of years for specialization four and this specialization has twenty-one countries. In five countries it takes four years, in eleven countries it takes five years, as it does us. In short, we are more likely to follow the example of those countries with longer-term specialisations. We also have a longer study of medicine than is required by the European Directive, which prescribes a five-year study or about 5,000 500 hours, and we have a six-year study of medicine. So here our students are studying longer than elsewhere. An important difference, it seems to me to point out, but it is also that in large countries the specialists are already working, and in our case, the work of the specialists is, in fact, based on their own findings, limited mainly to some bureaucratic work, to some writing of vacations and so on and in very few cases include them directly in practice. Of course, we want this to be different. But it gets stuck again and again. Where – at the Medical Chamber! Calling for specializations, we have already established this today, which is the responsibility of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. The Minister said very well earlier that she was the first in the ranks of ministers who did not automatically sign an agreement on the number of specialisations, but requested clarifications and requested adjustments to the number. However, the self-employment of the relevant personnel to carry out health activities is, of course, within the purview of the management of individual institutions. The lack of physicians of specific specialities is rooted in the fact that healthcare providers were not involved in the decision-making process and in the type of specialisation. That such a system has also been used to create an artificial lack of specific specialists, which has caused and continues to cause disturbances in the labour market and thus creates conditions for the monopoly of certain areas. That is why I appeal to all citizens and citizens in this place, because, after all, we all need medical attention at some point in time to work together for public health, which will be universally and equally accessible to all patients. The right direction is, of course, supporting these systemic solutions, and I am arguing that the Minister of Justice in this area has obviously come so far with the solutions that the interest groups in the background, together with a certain part of the opposition, have obviously joined forces and, with interpretation, stopped her work and the work of this government. And of course it's with one purpose, and that's that nothing would change. If I end up somehow where I started, when I claimed that only bad practices were exposed. Rare are articles that also show good stories and good wages and where journalists are able to verify all the facts and where the article shows how we can be very well and effectively taken care of in the event of serious diseases. And, of course, it's all free for us for such a patient. It is an article in one of our local weeks where an in-depth article on one patient was published last week, which was diagnosed with cancer at the end of the previous year, and to summarize the findings in this article. In six days, she was in the study — with a selected specialist to understand each other. In the meantime, she did some research, and within three weeks, there was an operation. Right after the surgery, she got chemo. The savior picked her up at home every day at her home address and took her to Ljubljana for therapy. After completion of therapy, the hospital had 14 days of treatment and twice as many as 10 acupunctures because of problems with insomnia. Plus, she got a co-financed wig, and she also got therapy with a psychologist, and I'm not gonna list it. So, however, in such cases things work well, but above all they work free, so they are available to all alike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Slug. Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grims, I apologize, representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, the word is yours, and Mr Mag. Branko Grimes. [[…]] Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u116	It's just a matter of time. The opposition is behind a certain lobby that impedes the work of the Minister in the National Assembly. Again, I ask which lobby and what does the opposition have to stop if it has nothing to do with it? The opposition does not have enough votes, nor does it have anything to hold back because it does not have any law to deal with. Say it again and stop saying it all the time that someone's behind us. However, you have made it clear that we do not need the Medical Chamber – if that is what you mean, then you have made it clear that we do not need the Medical Chamber. The following matter; I ask the Minister to respond to what Mrs Sluga said about administrative supervision in UKC Ljubljana. At the end of June 2015, the Ministry carried out administrative supervision in UKC Ljubljana and issued an administrative decision. It was loaded to at least So UKC – 60 corrective measures. [[…]] The UKC complained of this by appeal to the Administrative Court, which took a year to say that the UKC had no opportunity to then respond. The new decision has not yet been issued by the Ministry, it is not known whether the UKC is actually correcting the irregularity, whether on paper or not. The 60 corrective measures for administrative control of UKC Ljubljana, the Minister, when the Administrative Court rejected the case, thus attached the UKC, did not issue a rejuvenation decision. It is not known whether these measures are being implemented or not. However, the measures, as I said, are 60: ensuring the exercise of the patient's rights, ensuring the implementation of internal professional supervision and so on, that I will not list everything. So, Madam Minister, since the coalition MP has mentioned administrative supervision, I ask you to answer for this: Is the UKC implementing these corrective measures or not? Have you now given this ad acta and done and are you no longer doing any control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Godec. The word has magic. Branko Grims [[…]] Replica, Mrs. Servant, please, your word. Mag. Grims, then it's you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u118	I'd like to ask nicely, colleague Godec, I've made it very clear that along with the opposition's work with interpolation, they're stopping the government's work. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u119	Mag. Grimes, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. In view of this debate, I will talk about what would be good, so I will do her a favor. I like doing favors. Thus, it would be good to first acknowledge to the current minister the merit of enriching the world science for another human age, as there is a stone at home, a bronze age, an iron age, and a waiting time in Slovenia. It would also be good if everyone knew Ronald Reagan, who once said that instead of listening or beating up empty words, we were following the money. For the true values of politics show only what money is actually spent on. And with all of today's strong talk, let us look at from the point of view of values the policy of the current government – in the area of the Minister. When we talked about waiting lines that unfortunately make people suffer and die, the two numbers are extremely interesting, which they rounded up. One thing we heard from the hospitals, they said about the most critical waiting lines that people are dying for, would require 40 million euros. This government does not find these 40 million euros, but when Mr. Židan set up a public forest company, where, by the way, the skull was previously and then a cheerful famine, 40 million were immediately found. You won't believe it; right now, no problem! So the woods won't recover anything, but the SD will definitely be one of the coalition parties. Then the more interesting number is 120 million. This number we have heard from the insurance company that it would take 120 million euros to eliminate practically all waiting lines in critical areas. This government can't find this 120 million euro, but 123 million euros for illegal migrants, that is to say, for the illegal work of this government, but this is what happened; immediately, without a problem. If we look at this in terms of values, ladies and gentlemen, it is very sad and totally unacceptable because it means that security, health and prosperity are not a value for this government, and the authorities are certainly not. There's no doubt about it if you look at where the money is actually going in this government. The numbers speak for themselves. Look, it's very interesting sometimes when that subconscious spoke, and today it was such an amazing case, at first I almost didn't believe it when I saw it there in the hallway. SMC, the largest government party, distributed this leaflet to journalists, saying: The Minister of Health has to take care of everyone, not just a handful of rich people. Now you may have understood this by the one who ordered it differently, but if someone looks at it from the side, you are unconscious – easy to say, it has spoken unconsciously – you have given yourself the worst possible criticism in all two and a half years, what this government of yours exists. For this, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth of how Slovenian health really works. By the way, it's not the minister's fault that I won't do anything wrong. There is also a lot of blame for the minister who has just joined us, because if it were the foam function of the compensation he promised in his next speech, and I specifically asked him this, he said that this was the first thing, I absolutely support – no, of course, it was nothing, because the lobbies are too strong – it would be a lot different in health, but not only in health, it would be a lot different in many areas of social life, but it is the responsibility of another minister. But if we go back, how Slovenian health care works. You all swear on public health. With this public health care, you know, I remember some of them who swore the loudest oath to public health. [[…]] For example, former president of the state Milan Kucan, the undeniable leader of the Slovenian Transitional Left, until the moment he was grabbed by his back. And you won't believe what those who swear the most to public health, which is the only saving, only health care, is the best in the world, and it's great at all. They're going to treat themselves in Switzerland at a private clinic! The bill is, of course, exposed to public health in Slovenia or the insurance company. But you know, sometimes I say that when such demagogies as we've heard about public health care, that seats in this room should be equipped as on a plane — with vomit bags. Look, in practice, when it comes to human health, our health is bad. Not because there would be absolutely little money, but because there are too many leeches hanging in public health. Because many naively believe that public health is the best and only salvation and, of course, see doctors there who work hard, sisters who are still underpaid for the surface, working hard and suffering and maiming and saving lives for a small amount of money. That's all good and good, only those who serve in this business, but you don't see them. The same is true in another area, such as what public companies could say very much about what banking system in Slovenia. But today we're talking about health care, which is a wonderful money launderer for some. Then you could hear how some things in Slovenia, because they happen to be the same calls and contracts, they pay off terribly, and money flows into some medium that is used to mutilate others, or somewhere else, depending on how that moment decides, for health and for human health – but then it is not – but not? That's why she swears so blindly to public health. Public health is fine. And there's good competition. But the best quality is available health care for everyone at a reasonable price, where the problem is. Because this health care in Slovenia is terribly expensive, but it is not as high-quality as it wants to appear. Far from it. We are in some areas, say, at global level or at least at European level, but at some point – I would rather not comment. That's when there's an interesting effect. When one of those Februarys needs help, which has previously spoken so much about public health, it is to be treated at a private clinic abroad and the bill exhibits Slovenia. When a child needs help or someone who may not be a member of the transition left may not be available to him abroad, unless he pays himself or collects the stoppers. Here we go again! Are we all the same before marriage? Are our constitutional rights equally protected? Yes, I do! Never in this country. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the problem we are talking about today. About these leeches hanging in public health care, about the fact that things are not systematically well arranged, about the fact that there is no real healthy competition between suppliers, in health care and so on, allowing the only one long-term in any area of social life to raise quality. For this, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is responsible. But if something was tragic today, and I pointed to this yarn, it was saying what was supposed to be wrong 10 years ago and going — the law had changed twice since then. If something was really wrong, ladies and gentlemen, do something for God's sake! That's all you had to do, because I'm sorry, you can only sell to Slovenian sheep, after two and a half years of your authority, to yell at what was wrong 10 years ago. Yeah, well, why were you elected? In two years, ladies and gentlemen, we should put things on solid ground. To enforce the rule of law to which you once swore, to amend the laws if necessary, and, of course, to do everything to make the system work. You failed on the entire line, and today is not just about time for the minister to leave her post. The only thing that would be good for Slovenia is that the entire government, which has been elected in a legitimate way for the top of everything, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Allow me to give the floor to Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, in front of Dr. Anget Logar and Mr. Jan Mahnič. Here you go, Madam Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First answer to Mrs. Godchev. A re-decision on administrative supervision has been issued. Why did it have to be reissued? Unfortunately, because we have a lack of administrative control provisions in the current law. In the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law, we regulate and introduce systematic controls. In addition, the UKC has already carried out all corrective measures. [[…]] Secondly, I must also tell Mrs Godchev, I do not know whether she misunderstood or not that there are no members and representatives of the coalition's parties on the board for the selection of members of the boards of the institution, but employees in the ministry, which is publicly accessible data. That's what you said. With regard to the specialisation and your remark that the Ministry of Health was no longer involved in the invitation to tender for specialisations to the Ministry of Health this year. The full review of the qualified specialists was reviewed by the Director of the Directorate for Health Care, both the State Secretary and the Head of the Health Coordination Sector. During the review of the planned sites, the Ministry representatives found disagreements between the needs of doctors in the system and the foreseeable specialised posts proposed by the Medical Chamber. Therefore, the coordinators of individual special areas were proposed to increase the number of specialised cities or to request explanations where there are differences. In some cases we have received explanations that we do not have enough mentors for specialists in the system so that they can be implemented in a qualitative manner. Once again, I stress that Mrs Godec's leadership is malicious and is not at all a conflict of interest. About my secretary of state, Sandra. As you know, any doctor who wishes to maintain a licence must carry out his profession, so in addition to working at the Ministry in practice, former ministers worked, such as Mr Marusic and Mr Gantar. Health activities in the hospital are not in any conflict of interest, but Mrs Godec should know at all that hospitals are not a direct budgetary consumer, and yet we have also received permission for this work from the KPK, and additionally; Mrs Sandra Tušar is no longer working and has terminated this contract with October 1st. Additional plasma explanation. This is again the case with plasma medicines for medicines that do not comply with the rules of public procurement and do not deal with the marketing of medicinal products in bulk, so they do not fall under the provisions of the Directive. The area of high standards of quality and safety of organs and substances of human origin, blood and blood derivatives allows Member States, despite the principle of regulation at European Union level, to maintain or introduce stricter safeguards and EU measures do not affect national provisions on organ and blood donation or use for the purposes of treatment. So it's actually about protecting our blood plasma products that are actually donated from our blood donors. Article 71(6) of the Medicinal Products Act introduces a priority principle for the supply of plasma products collected in the Republic of Slovenia in order to use this to treat patients in the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the angiograph, all the inhabitants of Dolenjska and White Krajina were without an intervention cardiologist and an appropriate apparatus to save the lives of the inhabitants of the region, so the patients were driving to Ljubljana or Celje; and this is not just 30 kilometers, as the interpellation promoter claims. Therefore, the Ministry of Health carried out a public procurement order for the purchase of angiographs. The procedure is ongoing and I believe that the invitation to tender will be completed as soon as possible, without the necessary complaints and revisions, and that the inhabitants of Dolenjska and the White Region will no longer have to drive to other health homes. It's an accessory to corruption. Let me say another additional measure – in addition to common public procurement, declarations and many other activities, we have carried out another activity in relation to zero tolerance, which I am advocating, and in order to ensure the highest standards of integrity and transparency, the Ministry signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Transparency International Slovenia in October 2015 on the development phase of the integrity project in connection with the implementation of the Energy Renovation of Hospitals project. The draft Integrity Pact is in coordination, and I expect short notice from the drafting to the final document. The Ministry is aware that corruption in general by undermining the integrity of institutions and democratic values poses a threat to the foundations of a modern state organisation and that potential corruption in procurement processes makes fair competition impossible and discriminates against the most favourable providers of quality goods and services and construction operators. Let me mention that this pact on ensuring integrity and transparency in procurement procedures follows respect for public interest, ensures preventive action against organised crime and corruption and establishes responsible behaviour of the signatory to the Pact. This was also welcomed by the European Commission, and some of the 15 projects will be selected to monitor and monitor these projects. We have also been commended here by the European Commission for doing all the work. Now, for a short time, there are some other facts that need to be said in the light of the statement made by the Chairman of the Health Committee that I am wrongly choosing my priorities. In doing so, he probably forgot that he, as chairman of the committee, had suggested that the Ministry should prepare a proposal for a pharmacy law, and the Committee had adopted that proposal. As the responsible minister, of course, I respect the conclusions of this Parliament's Health Committee, which is why we have joined the drafting of this law and it has not been my choice of priorities. However, I would not repeat once again the agreements, the coordinations, because there are records of a number of meetings, the proposals, and much has been said about this today. Furthermore, it must also be said that it does not hold to the information that, during my term of office, more than 300 million euro is available in the health register. If I provide you with data, at the time of Mr Gantar's ministry in 2012, 2.3 billion money was in the health register, and in 2013 2.2 million euros in the year, if you want, 2015 for the full time of my term, 2.4 million euros. So the difference is only 100 million euros. It is true, however, that between 2009 and 2015, according to the crisis, increased employment has raised more money than €263 million. There's something else about the introduction of VAT. It is true that I led the VAT introduction project and I am proud of it, because all the foreign studies and reports of the World Bank – so thick – have shown and said that this was one of the best VAT introductions in Europe and beyond. You can see that, too. At the time of the introduction of VAT, I personally negotiated with individual pharmaceutical companies – back then with Lek, Krka, with Mr Dragonjo and Kolarič – about the fact that pharmaceutical companies did not raise the price of services or the price of medicines due to the introduction of VAT. There are documents and it's proven. If we failed to negotiate, there could be a drastic rise in drug prices on 1 July 1999. For this reason, I cannot accept that after so many years someone has proposed to me as if it was my fault that we had to adopt the Sixth Indirect Tax Directive and introduce VAT. However, it was not possible, as the old EU Member States had in order to introduce a third, one lower level, not to speak of a zero level, which was not possible at all. Of course, we also negotiated whether it would be possible to introduce another lower level of medicine and nutrition. Also, as for my relationship as President of the Mutual and Receipt Award, you know it's 23. 5. Following the adoption of the Zuf, payment of certain health services was transferred to supplementary health insurance. On the basis of the calculations received from my Health Insurance Office, the Actors have calculated, in accordance with the actuarial profession, the need to raise the premium in order to cover damage or health services. Actuaries shall charge and calculate this in their methods for the price to maintain the licence. Why? Because the premium amount must be sent to the regulator, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, and the actor, if the premium is not large enough, may lose the licence. That's why there was a four-euro raise. But it is true that health care then saved money, and that I took a stand and proposed a reduction in the premium, so I experienced that I was released in 20 minutes in the Mutual. And there's documentation and evidence for that as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mrs Jelka Godec asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u124	Minister, you seem to have mastered things that you did a few decades ago, so about VAT. You read about health care what experts bring you to the table. Ask the experts to correct the allegations. In fact, I did not talk about political people sitting on the boards for the confirmation of a member of the board of directors. That's what my colleague Pojbič was talking about, so please, my performance when you said I was insulting and rude, in that sense, please take it back. Those weren't my words. Those were the words of Comrade Pojbich. Now I see because you worked on the Mutual, you know Lek, Krko, then you can answer Mr Kordiš about the medical and insurance lobby, so you know them very well. I also ask you again and again, answer me about corruption. What have you done in this area? What have you done in these two years about the octopus in the UKC, about the irregularity of the purchase of material and so on? Minister, you just don't want to answer that. You don't want to answer that. Neither answer the Messengers nor you who are behind the opposition to block you. Otherwise, I don't know how, but once again, tell your professional colleagues that they're writing to you because you read from health care, you tell the rest out of your head, which is commendable, and you answer my questions about corruption. You still have time to answer that question today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. He has the word of Dr. Ange Logar, to prepare Mr. Jan Mahnic. Koleša, I've been informed you won't discuss it. [[…]] But that's not true? That's what I was told. Do you want a word? Mrs. Kolesha Dr. Ange Logar. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] But someone checked out, and the lady didn't agree, and I wasn't aware of it. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] Do we agree to move on? Mrs. Koleša, have a word. Dr. Ange Logar, be so kind as to give her your word. Thank you very much. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know who checked me out, really, maybe you heard something wrong about my last name. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Lobier me, the uncles in the background. Madam Minister with co-worker, dear representatives of the Government and dear colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased that you are well-willed! I wouldn't discuss it as an expert in health, because I'm not an expert in health, so let me start my debate like this. The house, which the owner has not been restoring for many years, does not fix, but in the midst of several changes to the master, will then collapse as before, but if we want to restore it and restore it well, then it is long and thorough and, of course, even more so today, because we have to take into account a lot more in terms of standards, standards and so on. Well, one of the important building blocks of our health is certainly a building of trust, namely, trust in doctors, nurses, medical staff, and the system as a whole. It is true, we note that this trust is also largely shaken and many have contributed to this lack of confidence in the affairs, events, including those related to corruption, especially in recent times. We all know about the event last week. And general dissatisfaction is excellent ground for all the ignorant and impostors, and we are a very good indicator for politicians to prepare the terrain for these crooks, because we are more than a dramatic, inescapable and populist representation of the situation in society, but also in the health system, of course, people are more convinced that they are being hit by the bell. Remember the sentence that Dr. Matthew Avbelj recently gave us when he said that populism is a source and a guarantee of corruption, which is of course very true. Last week, I was monitoring some of these debates and debates about health care, and I also listened to Mr Gorenak, who presented to all of us in one of his television news stories one of his personal experiences, when he said that, in the face of some of the pains he had, he would have to know someone if he wanted to come first. I sincerely hope that our fellow Member has also reported this obvious corruption. In fact, he was appalled to note, as well as to the fact that the UKC itself was rumbling that bribery was taking place because of, of course, the benefit of interfering with the waiting species system. In this case, the leaders should act. And it was obviously only on the initiative of someone who reported such suspicions of corruption. I therefore agree that this contribution in some sense should also be an appeal to all those who know of any corrupt act to declare it, and that is what we have repeatedly stressed in this debate. There's no other way, actually. Since the beginning of this government's operation, we have worked together, and together we have found that it will be the hardest to manage the house of health. The very clear concept of maintaining an accessible public health system for all is, however, the most difficult way to remedy the long-standing stagnation of the health situation. However, for all of us, the only fair and long-term is only effective, but of course there is really another house, and this is the house that we are talking about here too, it is a house of capital, private interests, even some private practices, and therefore Minister Milojka is afraid. The minister told her thorough answer what she had already done and what she would do. Of course, we can simply say that it's nothing, it's all wrong, it's also the best way to bring it all together, and this debate today in some sense of course indicates that it is a desire, because it is also in some way a mockery of all those who argue in an argument is actually some sort of indicator that the one who screams has no argument. Well, of course, this is not about demolition here, in the National Assembly, the fact is that we have agreed – and I am very glad that we are – that the coalition will support our Minister in further work, but is about another demolition; the one that I have already mentioned in the introduction is the populist representation of the state of the health system. Only a very obvious case, at the time of the Ministry of Milojka Kolar Celarc, waiting species were extended by 30%, so it was heard. On the other hand, we know that waiting types have only systematically begun to register with Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc. Now understand if you can and if this claim is not one big populist word or sentence. Since it was quite quoted in the National Assembly, I would also end up with one quote, as follows: "We have to be realistic, populism is popular, but it is misleading people. When I listen to criticism of what we should do, I feel like I have been running the government for 10 years," said the President of the Government at the end of her term of office. I'd say it's really nice to be a member of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you, too. Procedurally, Mr. Gorenak. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, even because you gave me procedurally, because I didn't report it, but it's unfair to mention a man who doesn't discuss it. Yes, Mrs Koleša, I have reported the matter because I stand behind my words and do not sell canteens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u129	Dr. Ange Logar, it is your word that Mr. Jean-Mahnič should report to you. Here you go, Dr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u130	Look, the response to this interpolation is a little unusual. Now we have experienced for the first time how the President of the Government stepped in the defence of the Minister long before the interpellation took place, but here the Minister represented herself with some dramatic tone as a public health defender. Look, compare the pre-interpellation situation with the interpolation against the Minister of Health and against, say, Minister Gasperšič. There Prime Minister Cerar has long been leaving his minister in ignorance to convince him and so on, but here he has been expressing his support. If it were just these two cases, I'd say that this government obviously has first-class ministers. But since I still remember what was going on, let's say, with Minister Anji Kopač Dark or, God forbid, the Minister of Culture mags. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar, but I will say that the government obviously has first-class, second-class and third-class ministers. On the basis of the Minister's class, the response of the President of the Government appears to follow, unless this response to this interpretation is due to new staff changes in the cabinet of the Prime Minister and some Israeli piranha advisers. But all I have to say to you is, you know, virtual reality does not hold water and bet or show the unity of the coalition and the biggest government party in the weakest article, is the worst possible strategy, because this also weakens the government coalition. I was wondering if you'd listened very well to the minister today at the opening. I was so good to her that I had to read her opening address again. Look what she said, I quote, "Why do they want to take us away with an interpolation..." then she listed the reasons, "... and that's why we're being intertwined." Mrs. Kolar Celarc, how many of you are there? How many of you are there? Why do you use plural words? But you're three ministers, because if you didn't, you'd use a double if you were two ministers -- you're three? Did you think you and those lobbyists who are sitting with you to prepare legislation, which is why even within the coalition is a net cave, because you are proposing uncoordinated legal proposals here in the National Assembly for consideration? I also went to look at our proposal, in case it was written in the plural by mistake: them, Minister of Health. No, Mrs. Celarc, you. In this case, this dramatic language is not in place, especially because you use it in an area that affects all of us, all two million Slovenians, and in an area where things do not actually work. Let me go on to list these strange things about this interpolation. Look, Mr. Cerar is reading you in conflict with himself. Again, I quote what he said at yesterday's press conference when he courageously stood up for you. He said: "The health system needs to be reorganised, optimized and so on to improve care and reduce waiting types. We have affairs, corruption, a long waiting line, so we also need public support..." and so on. Then: "For our public health care also abroad they acknowledge that it is good, we must preserve it, we must improve it." Look, you have to be a genius at the same press conference in the introduction to criticise health care, how it sucks, how you have corruption, how long you have waiting lines, and then you say they recognize abroad. What do they confess? That we have good affairs, that we have great corruption, and that we have extremely long waiting lines? Is that what the First Minister was going to say? Because otherwise, you can't get all kinds of stuff in the same press conference unless your secretary informs you. In fact, you were in a conflict, too, Madam Minister. Look, if I sum up your words, at the same press conference, you said "in the last six years" – that is, yesterday – "there were six ministers for health. The conditions when I took over my mandate were unsettled. The cases have accumulated for 15, 20 years and there have been no major substantive changes." That's what you said. You've talked before about how all the previous ministers have done badly, and now everyone wants to, expect you to do well. What did you say today? Again, I quote your opening speech: "We have a good health system, as confirmed by many studies and international institutions, this is the result of the long-standing hard work of many of our excellent doctors as well as my predecessors in this difficult ministerial position." So at yesterday's press conference, you say that your predecessors haven't done anything for 15, 20 years, and then today you say that a good, excellent health system is the reason or result of the hard work of your predecessors in this position. Do you know which department you're at? I'm serious. Look, you can't because you probably wanted to look at our colleague Gantar in these words so he wouldn't be so critical in presenting the views of the members of this group, but you added in this round that your predecessors were doing well. But listen, in this position, in such an important department, the minister simply cannot speak. He just can't afford it. Then the first member of the moral-ethic MPs here in the National Assembly is the same at a press conference where all SMC members have stood for strong support from the minister – again a new element in defending the weakest member of this government. I quote Mrs Kustec Lipicer: "Support to the Minister on behalf of the SMC Group means support for quality health care, Serbs for patients, care for medical, healthcare and concern for the future of all of us." In short, it's not. At Miley Kolar Celarc public health stays or falls. Look, don't be so dramatic! Mrs. Celarcheva has come a long way since you were dramatic. If I take back the statement or quote from her opening presentation. I quote: "That is why I am here before you, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, because we have been elected by the mandate of public health." To this day I believed that you were elected for Mira Cerar, and now I know that you were elected Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc. From this day forward, this is clearly clear. But the thing is sad, look. She's truly sad. The health situation is, excuse me, catastrophic. The waiting types I'm reading these lists, I wouldn't even count them because I would repeat what my colleagues have already said. [[…]] By the time she took over the mandate, 93,000 patients were waiting for 13 specialist outpatients, today it's 118 thousand. Official information. When you say that this statistics are not real because they have not previously reported – among the biggest delays we find UKC Maribor, UKC Ljubljana – but they probably reported no? So that stats hold. That way you can't hide behind the codes, unless you forced them to start reporting these things. You also said that the situation in Slovenian health care is good, that it is better than in the surrounding countries. Look, here I have the Euro Health Consumer Index, a study that examined the state and the waiting line in the European Union. Green is good, yellow is more like that, but red is bad. You said, once again, that around us, the neighbouring country, is worse than Slovenia. It's a very small Slovenia, but you might see, it's marked red. Austria with green, even Croatia is marked with green, Italy with yellow. Only Hungary, the neighbouring country is red. So they are not all worse than Slovenia, but only one is as bad and everything else is better than in Slovenia. Then you also said that we committed ourselves to strengthening the public health system in a way that would ensure that all insured persons have equal opportunities for healthcare. See study 8 on your website. 1. published in 2016, comparing mortality in vascular diseases. Comparison of central Slovene, pomurska region. Do you know what the difference is? For 48%! If you have care or live in a pomur region, the mortality rate is 262 per hundred thousand inhabitants and 176 in central Slovenia. Is that the same thing? I think that's an essential difference. In this same study, it says, the current approaches do not improve the operation. This study is published on your website, OECD. It will be difficult for you to convince me that you are the greatest advocate of public health and that your position is crucial to how we, our parents and our apprentices will continue to treat us. But the best part was, well, I have to admit, when all of these statistics are looked at and listened to today's debate, as well as to your opening line, and I will quote it again: "Consider whether my responsibility in stopping and operating the network of emergency centres is worthy of interpretation or prior commendation." Ladies and gentlemen, you've received an interpellation, and you're really looking forward to a commendation. So in this reference, you were completely disappointed by this opposition. So in these catastrophic statistics, she did not commend you for the things that have already been prepared by the previous ministers that you are boasting about today. But what falls out of your normative framework, what you should prepare, you have not prepared anything, and you still expect to hear praise. And the coalition MPs, the honourable coalition MPs, are you also expecting or is there something that someone who has a reasonable relationship who has also been waiting in line for a review to commend the Minister for her work? Is that what you really expect? I ask you honestly because this is for me – I don't know, this minister is the weakest member of this government. [[…]] Black on white. We don't need special statistics either. See, at a stage when horrible crimes occur, when a doctor is shot, when doctors have to demand protective care or more security guards because they fear for their lives, when people wait two years for surgery, the minister expects commendation. Look, I'm sorry! At this point, if we are honest, with all these reforms that have now been made, the only real reform measure of this government would be the only real and most effective reform measure of this government to give up. This would be the best and fastest reform achieved. It would be easier for the government, because it would burden the weakest article and Cerar would not have to present two diametrically opposed positions in the same press conference, the same as the minister, and I don't know, for a Slovenian patient, it would probably be beneficial, because I would finally say that, because maybe something will move. To conclude with your self-analysis of the work done, which you also presented in the introductory address. You said, "Our fair and solidarity public health system updated and renewed will be based on the universal basket of services." But Minister, we're not there yet. He'll be thorough. Next: "Our renewed public health will have to be sustainable in the long term." Well, not yet. Next: "We will introduce part of the payment of healthcare workers according to the efficiency and quality of the work done." Well, not yet. And: "We will reshape the insurance supplement and replace it with fairer taxes." What you haven't done yet! And now the essence of everything you have concluded: "On these four points stands or falls the Slovenian public health system. I stand or fall on four points." How many of those four points have you made to date? Nothing. In two years, you've been nothing for more than two years, and on these four points, you have a health net and your mandate. Look, you said earlier that I quoted your words, that you were not worthy of construction, of interpretation, but of praise. That's what you think. I don't think so. Not that you're only worthy of grace, you're worthy of resignation. You're worth a break. But not really you, but taxpayers are worth your resignation. Because this is exactly what will relieve a very important problem situation and a person who will actually decide will be able to come. Which, if necessary, will also grant fifty concessions in one night if it so determines the law. She'll respect the law. Which will be able to take measures that will have the support of other organisations, but not to listen to cregaria within the health system day after day, while waiting periods continue to be extended. My conclusion after today's debate is: relieve the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u131	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Mr. Logar here has said some untruths or constructions, if you will. Interpellators themselves find, even in your text, that there has been no real renovation or upgrade in the healthcare system since 1992. This, of course, insists that the current government and I, as ministers, have taken over the health sector, which in some areas needs to be upgraded and corrected from the past. So, you yourself are admitting that for 24 years there have been no major changes in health care that should have taken place. At the same time, you're interpolating me and all the responsibility for the poor financial situation, for the losses in health care institutions, so everything that's possible and what's happened, even for the wrong pipes, you blame the Minister for Health. [[advertising from the hall]] . You don't have to, because I can just report that I'm to blame for everything in the future and in the back without having any authority or possibility of influence on certain things. You're coming with you into contradiction. I do not want to repeat all my arguments that I have repeated. Of course, you can also manipulate data whether it is a consumer index or using a much more credible institute such as Health at a Glance or WHO studies. Well, by the way, did you know what the life expectancy is between an uneducated man in Prekmurje and a highly educated woman in the Ljubljana region or in Gorenjska? In 14 years! Yes, but that is why we have written down in our resolution that we will reduce these differences as they are. Look, here's my colleague, Slovenia's green. So, next time, take a good look at the color. And I'm not going to go on, but I'm going to tell you, what you said the lobbies would be most happy if you stepped down. Yes, but I will not give them this joy, because many of those who have had their mouths full of reforms all this time have proved to be, at least for the time of my mandate in negotiations, coordination, that they do not really want you to be reform and change. They do not want a transparent, orderly and fair healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Jože Tanko. Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Government team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin with – what you have just said in the end, Madam Minister – I do not blame you for the wrong tubes, let us leave what objective responsibility says. But I'm sure, given how you run the ministry, that you don't even know how the pipes fit in, the question is, do you even know what the pipes are? That's why I won't blame you. All I have to say is that if I were a coalition member who was ordered to support the Minister at all costs, after what my colleague Logar said, I would push against it. It is probably not difficult to quickly paint Slovenia green, as you have now shown, however. This debate that we have against the Minister of Health today, which is, if I quote two coalition MPs – and I will not give their names because I want you to tell me something else to come up with – is one of the three ministers or ministers in this government that fall directly under Gregor Golobic's quota. I can say that this debate is déjà vu. Djej vu in the sense that whenever the Slovenian Democratic Party comes to the National Assembly with concrete proposals, this time it is an interpretation, let's say I am somehow oriented or touching the defence system. When we have a problem when we detect it, when we clearly specify it, when we write the points, there are eight points where we are gravely reading irregularities, and then at every point we write an explanation, the government comes up with an explanation that we are wrong to imagine that the situation is not the same as it is, and then all of a sudden they are passed on to the previous governments and there are no answers. During the debate we received this leaflet, this leaflet was printed by the SMC – just so that citizens and citizens will know – you paid 40,000 euros for these leaflets. You pay 40,000 euros a month for a pear to the Prime Minister, who then advises him on such flyers. It says – more money for health care and then writes that they have allocated an additional €13.7 million for over-priced and under-priced programmes. On the first page, they write, "Together for public health, the Minister of Health has to take care of everyone, not just a handful of rich people." You write on the same leaflet that the Minister has to take care of everything, not just the rich, but on the other hand, that you have committed an additional EUR 13.7 million. Ladies and gentlemen, with these additional 13 million you are sustaining a state such as that only a handful of citizens and citizens who are truly rich can afford health, not those who actually have nothing. The Minister of Health is constantly speaking against concessionaires, and we are also here today by various Members. Now, I'm going to tell you a very enlightening case of concessions. When the minister changed the rules on how to feed vaccines, we are in the Poljanska and Sevska valley without pediatricians. She made us lose our pediatricians. I know it's a primary health level. That's when the secretary said, "I have nothing to do with you losing your pediatrician." But since she changed the rule on the basis of which during the night the spaces of the pediatric infirmary in Gorenje village, in Žirje and in the railways became inadequate, we lost our pediatricians. She didn't answer for it, she didn't change the rules, nothing. How did we handle this? 14 days ago we had the opening of a new, renovated paediatric infirmary and we concluded a concession with a pediatrician. This is the positive story of these concessions. By the way in Gorenje village Dr. Janez Koprivec, Dr. Olga Mijatovic, Dr. Rok Kavčič, Dr. Matej Javah are building a new health home. These are concessionaires who, in addition to the already existing healthcare home that was renovated by the municipality, build a health home with their own financial resources. These are the ugly concessionaires the Minister of Health is talking about. Those are the ugly concessionaires! I can say, in addition to two general doctors, Dr. Nadje Šubic and Dr. Ande Perdan, we have a positive attitude in the valley of Poland and a very positive experience with this, let's say this private health care, which one is thus fighting. With public health, ladies and gentlemen, we only have bad experiences. We have private health care, all citizens and citizens are well cared for. Now, allow me to be a member of the SMC for a short time and read something. From one citizen, anonymously, I received a letter in my email about problems based on my own experience in the Slovenian healthcare system. This is another embarrassment more when yesterday the President of the Government stood before the speaker and said, "I call on citizens and citizens to understand and support." What citizens and citizens? The ones waiting in the waiting lines? Those who witnessed in Isola how someone had shot a doctor and a police officer because of too many waiting lines? Those citizens and citizens sitting in the Clinical Center in the waiting rooms watching Janez Zemlarič and the other lobbyists walk with full suitcases out of the Clinical Center? Of which citizen and citizen does the President of the Government want trust, patience and support? I'm sure you don't. Perhaps he has in mind other citizens and citizens; those you now import from Syria, Iraq and what I know where else. Those for which you spend 120 million euros. You've spent 120 million euros on migrants! And here you print 40 thousand euros of monthly flyers, where you write that you give 13 million euros for health care. Look, shame! It's a shame I don't think so, but on the one hand, it's a real courage to hope to print these flyers and say that you've spent 13 million euros on health care. [[…]] Please note that you have dedicated 120 million dollars to migrants! In short, this is where one of the citizens wrote her personal experience. The first of the stories written here refers to waiting types, for a short time, I won't read it all, because it's three pages. She wrote: "Besides, I experienced that they didn't want to order me to check in with a substitute doctor with the excuse that she was busy this week, but otherwise there are waiting lines set, and then the second week they don't replace me, so I have to order then. However, when I mentioned that we would miss the deadline for the submission of the application for extended hospital stock to the Health Insurance Institute, he suddenly found himself free in four days' time." So it turns out that the nurse deliberately invented a busy schedule, thus artificially increasing the waiting line. Is this in line with those instructions that our fellow Members of the delegation mentioned earlier? Not to mention that the lady here writes that she recently suffered the loss of a loved one because of the people who run the health system. Her husband's life could be saved by a lung transplant approved by a health insurance company. For reasons known to us at UKC Ljubljana was delayed by preparations for transplantation, and the partner was approaching the 65th year limit for such an intervention, and everything fell into the water. His health began to deteriorate. Despite their prognosis, I was able to extend his life by 16 years with the help of a selected doctor. The pain is too great to discuss this moment yet, but I will gather strength to share with the public one day my pain and bitter realization that if you don't have an uncle in the background in health care, you're finally just a number. I didn't make that up, Madam Secretary. These are the words of citizens and citizens. Those citizens and citizens waiting in line in hopes of not dying before and for whom the Prime Minister asks for support. Shame!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u135	I will read four more names for the last four debaters in this regular part. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Jurša, Mr Jože Tanko, Dr Dragan Matič. Mr. Badger, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u136	Good evening. Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Minister, other representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! I'm gonna calm this down a little bit. I'm not gonna be so sharp as to put gas on the fire because it was a little too hot today. Today we all agree that health care in Slovenia is at the point when it needs a serious approach to change. Some more, some are less actively co-created by this story, but I know that the Minister of this mission has taken this mission seriously and responsibly and in particular with a view to ensuring that health care is the same for all people. In fact, this has already been repeated several times today. This is a very important message. I have been monitoring her work since the beginning of the mandate, and I see that every move has been made by extraordinary efforts, especially because this area has stagnated for so long and has not received real attention for many years. And when changes occur, a little by human nature, but much more so because some fear that they will lose their privileges, and all the weights they try to avoid these changes. We have already seen in this mandate what it is like to introduce a change in the health field. I am not a member of the Health Committee, but I remember how many unnecessary words have been made and how much fear has spread needlessly in the debates on the new emergency medical system. And the same as the law that introduced the eProcurement and eRecept Information System. At the time, it was said that we were damaging the system. There were questions as to who would work at emergency medical care centres so that the network would not cover all residents. Today everything works, people are happy to receive appropriate help in the best time possible. Emergency cases are no longer waiting in family medicine outpatients in such overcrowded personal physicians. Today we see that it is a success story that we have become a country comparable to the developed world in this area. The reorganisation of emergency medical care has thus become an example of good practice in the field of systemic health movements, although some of the opposition are trying to show quite the opposite. The fact is that we have finally received a modern and European comparable organisation of emergency medicine, which is particularly beneficial to patients. Before the introduction of eRecept, the public were also unduly intimidated that people would suddenly be without medication, that the information system would be overloaded and therefore not functional. Today, everything works as it should, patients and healthcare professionals are burdened with unnecessary writing and handling of prescriptions, and next year, the eTravel will also come to life, which will make a substantial contribution to a more orderly order. In particular, I am pleased to learn that we have increased the number of reference outpatients in two years of this mandate, today we have as many as 150 reference outpatients more than in 2014. Thus, they are now in operation for 584 years and represent significant progress in the team management of patients. This means increased accessibility to quality and safe health care for the patient. In addition to a doctor and a nurse, such an ambulance also has a graduate nurse who checks the parameters of chronic diseases, and the nurse also advises on preventive activities. This means that patients receive significantly better care as they receive an early screening programme for particular types of chronic diseases, as well as enhanced medical care. In this way, since part of these examinations are carried out in the reference clinic, more time remains left for the doctor to talk and examine the patient, which is very positive. I welcome any further developments in the patient's well-being, and I wish that the big changes that await us in the future would be less fear; I wish we could discuss less and work more, as we have shown several times in the case of good practices that we can design a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Badass. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Prepare Mr. Jože Tanko and Dr. Dragan Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u138	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Council of Ministers, respectable colleagues and colleagues! When you look at the clock, you can quickly find out that we've started our third shift. Some of us who have more than a few years on our backs have a slow-knit brain. Therefore, it would be significantly better in the future to plan such interpretations and try to choose the amount of time that we will devote to this problem in each individual parliamentary group. I am aware, however, that unfortunately this is not going well in the National Assembly and, of course, you can quickly estimate that in some parliamentary groups, colleagues and colleagues are competing, who will be more insulted by the minister who is ahead of us, and someone is interpreting it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, whether it's from the left or the right, it's not too right, I think we need to improve this relationship and we need to be more respectful to each other. Of course, then it is expressed that individuals still shiver at the words spoken by one Member and then shake hands with someone who is more hurtful. No! No! I mean, at least in my opinion, it's not the right way. I do not advocate such debates and such behaviour. You know, about the health issue, I have to admit, we had a lot to talk about in our parliamentary group. In particular, because we are assessing that this is one topic of particular importance under the Coalition Treaty and it is necessary to resolve the problem that has accumulated in this area for many years. Given that we have a Member who knows this area a little bit more in our Group, the Minister must also not hold back from looking at certain things from his point of view and presenting them. In a way, we respect the fact that the Lord has performed various important duties in this area and that this brings some experience and then through this presentation of these experiences at this point, which we are dealing with today. I have to say right away at the beginning that I'm not going to support the interpolation myself. In view of the fact that we talked mainly about two concepts in the field of health, one is public health and the other is private health. Every health care is very important, but it is important if it is good and offers citizens and citizens what they need at that time. But I also have to say right away and admit that I am and will be a public health advocate. Thank God we've kept it in these years, so to speak, from independence until now. Someone told us, I think it was on the left hand side, that we were involved in all governments, and we didn't do anything. If we have already done so, we have kept this public health care and in most cases I must also say, although there have been many different assessments, people are satisfied with public health. I can answer this question or the conclusion that we have been in all governments, our parliamentary group or our party. I have already said that we are pleased that public health has also been maintained, that even those who have spoken this, or those who have spoken this, cannot, of course, show the results of their work because they still have too short a working period or too short a working period. If we assess interpolation as an act in the hands of the opposition, in any case it is a legitimate thing, and it is true that it also invests interpolation when it is not satisfied with the work of a certain minister, Minister. But I think this interpellation has also served us who cooperate within the coalition, within those who run the government. We have made public how we want to discuss new emerging laws. We have made it clear that we also want to participate. And another matter, very clearly, we have also made it clear to the President of the Government that it is necessary to stand closely for the Minister if it is to be expected that these changes will actually be made. If this support is not available, of course reform cannot be carried out. But here I would point out one thing which, in my opinion, is very important, and of course also in general, if there is not enough money to carry out reforms, then, of course, it will not be possible to carry them out. Support, yes, by the President and the whole government, and of course, support for finance. Now some worry or concern us that from the financial point of view, the adoption of budgets for the next two years – the items do not exactly show that enough money is earmarked for health care. Well, the right opposition somehow tripped that Desus and SD had "tossed" the Act on Pharmacy. We didn't throw the law. All those who have little knowledge of the procedure in the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure – we have only moved the matter to a second level, this is a public presentation of opinions. On the basis of a public presentation of opinions, then the views of the professional public, the interested public, the representatives of the municipalities and others, here I also think of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, a law can be drawn up, which we will also easily adopt. As I have already said at the outset, I will not support the interpretation itself, nor will the entire Desus Group support the interpretation, but I will say that we have conditionally pointed out to the Minister that we want just on the date that the Minister has set herself, that is December 12th of this year, to be sent to the House of Health and Health Insurance Act. But, of course, I also want another matter as a coalition Member, which is that the Minister of Health and the Chairman of the Health Committee are more closely involved in the preparation of these documents, and try to keep an eye on the issue and move the matter forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Jursha. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare for him as the last Mr Dragan Matić. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. We can listen to the debate today on interpolation, in fact 95% of Members and also representatives of the Government do not understand what interpolation is and talk about everything possible, not about what is written as an obvious. Interpellation, if we try to look at it in substance, is essentially an inventory of the situation after a certain period, an analysis of the situation after a certain period, is an inventory. Given that you have been on the government for two years, that you are also a minister for more than two years, on this cut-off date the conclusions that, at least I can argue on the basis of the discussions I have heard are undeniable. The issues that we have written and defined as obvious are because, with no debate, with any fact, no document of the case has been rejected. Actually, none of these matters. If we put ourselves in a situation where you've taken up your mandate and you've written some wonderful coalition contract with fairy tale objectives, a lot of them are undecided, and if we look at these annual plans of yours, that's what we call the government's normative programmes for the Ministry of Health, then we see that realisation is practically zero. There is no action, no law to be commended by the Minister and the Government. He's not here. Like the famous mini justice reform of Klemenčič, you have defined the pharmacy law as a reform because it was a kind of miracle when Mr Klemenčič proposed it. But, sorry, the way the tablets are sold can't be reformed, especially since all these models already exist. This fastening around this pharmacy law and this shagging within the coalition is probably the most profound thing. It's probably not just the law, although it's bad, although it's very flawed and unconstitutional, but it's probably about some bigger, more capital things in this area. But that's the way it is in the coalition. I think it is worth it to the Minister once or twice, when she finally has something else to say, to read the debate of her coalition colleague, not a direct one, but a predecessor to the post, Mr Gantar. He basically said everything that doesn't count from the inside. These are not just the readings that we speak, but these are also the findings of those who know the system; who know the system as an operative, as a surgeon, as a doctor, as well as as a politician. I think it's in order to imagine what strong support you've given to a minister who doesn't have any concrete results after two years. Perhaps someone in the coalition will be offended, but these are the facts that you can check for yourself under the Government's normative programme, which you can look at in a coalition contract or whatever. Interpellation, respected colleagues, which we have now tabled, is not an interpretation of Bručan, not of Kebra, not of Mr Voljč and not of Jereb; it is specifically of the Minister. This is said to refer to a time-bound period and actions during this period. I will say that all these debates you have had served you more for, I don't know, hearing for the second half of the term of office for the existing minister than for some serious debate on this. I think that we should pay particular attention to some things; the area of customerism, the area of corruption that has been particularly opened up in this mandate, has in fact remained without any serious government response. If the Minister of Health does not know what corruption is, then her colleague, the Minister, Klemenčič, who has worked very hard to prosecute so-called corruption, has not seen corruption, perhaps even created one by means of his decisions that he has written and made certain caveats. I think what's going on in the health field is what I'm going to say, so obvious deviant phenomena that appear every day, and that nothing is done in this area is a scandal. The fact that the Minister does not react – for example, even in the case of surgeon Zimmerman; even her co-worker, the first right hand, was involved in these surgery and the rehabilitation of this, nothing happened. So we need to know that in this area things are not going to move anywhere. The only thing that gives hope in this area is an investigative commission that will detect it, of course, if your mandate is of course a debt. There's not much hope for that. As we can see, in the coalition, you've somehow agreed to give the Minister some spare time, a two-month extension. So you know that things aren't good, and you definitely know that it hasn't happened and done anything and now you bet on a certain date December 12. In the case of Mr Gasperšič, it was the same. He made a lot of promises about the second track, and next week there is nothing possible from this government before 2020. In view of the situation in this country, something similar will happen in this particular case. In this particular case. Mr. Gantar is right. The President of the Government, with this immense trust that he shared with the minister and stood behind her, also took on a great deal of weight. That December 12th is also the date for him; if the people you trust so endlessly, even though there is no basis for such trust, and you support them, then that is it. We have not put in interpolation to break the health model, we have put the interpellation against a specific person. However, I myself advocate a form of health care that will not cause any problems like now waiting times, where there will be no corruption that will be effective, which will not be too expensive. Now it will be public health, whether it will be licensed, whether it will be private, that is the second question. But we expect a rapid response from health care when we need it. We don't need it in six months, we don't need it in two years, but when the problem arises, we need to solve it. What kind of health care this model of effectiveness is most appropriate is a decision. Those who insist immeasurably on public health will also decide who will carry out this public health care; Mr. Zemlarič will continue to show up, whether someone else or someone else will appear, and so on. It's more public, more corruption. In all countries where they have suffered from endless state property and public property, corruption is essentially the case. Go to Venezuela, go to Korea, go to Cuba or anywhere else. There's nothing else, there's no other model, and you don't work under any other model. In short, I think the minister deserves to step down. As she obviously does not recognize that nothing has happened at this time, despite the coalition partners telling her the same thing, interpellation is the only measure left to note against these conditions which are unsustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Last discusser in this regular part. Dr. Dragan Matić, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u142	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Council of Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! In Today’s Nearly Fifteen Hours [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] The proposaler or SDS party was scrupulous, in my opinion, quite demagogically trying to somehow turn the debate into a time period that suits them. [[…]] That's two years. They want to make an impression that the Minister of Health had entered a system that was relatively solid and that after two years of collapse, and now they're grabbing her by the hair and convincing her to leave, and they've triggered an interpretation against her. Of course, it is a very transparent maneuver; the SDS party, when it answers, wants to count the beginning of the world from a specific date so that it can then continue to manipulate it. Just as a few weeks ago in the debate on the bank hole, Member Logar freely stated that the bank hole was created in 2013. That things are not so simple that they are connected that each case has its own future, its past, its own genetics, said already Mr Tomaž Gantar, our current colleague, then as Minister of Health when he left – I will allow myself to read his resignation statement. He explained in the introduction why he was leaving that he had failed to achieve everything he had asked; this is said to modernize the health system and then he wrote: "The same was the aim of all health ministers in at least the last decade, but so far everyone has encountered obstacles that have made the modernisation of health legislation impossible. Solutions that would be effective and at the same time satisfy everything are simply not. And it is a confusing belief that by means of health reform overnight, we could solve problems that accumulate in health care for many years. However, there are many views of 'different health professionals' that block any effective change on behalf of public health. I am convinced that it is in the interest of these health professionals that they probably already know why nothing changes in the health system." End of quote. Indeed, if we look back a little bit, he mentions ten good years, and let's see who the ministers were and let's start with Mr Mag. Andrey Brucan. He arrived in December 2004, then in September 2007 he was relieved of various affairs, but a little later. So he's been good for two and a half years on this function. Then Mrs Zofija Mazej Kukovic was a good year – from September 2007 to November 2008. Then Borut Miklavčič was from November 2008 to April 2010 – it is one and a half year. Then Dorian Marušič from April 2010 to February 2012 – is weak for two years. Tomaž Gantar – poor two years, from February 2012 to December 2013. Then, for a while, Mr Karl Erjavec also tested himself in this function – says the Minister of Health – among the many who performed them. Then it was a record short of Dr. Alenka Trop Skaza, who was weak for two months. Everyone mentioned some lobbying, some pressure. Borut Miklavčič resigned because of the lack of coordination with regard to the Health Action Act, after 38 versions being asked by the President of the Government, then President of the Government, Mr Pahor, to prepare 39 more, and preferred to give up those honours and leave the post. Then, of course, the last Alenka Bratušek was also acting as Prime Minister of the Government. It's kind of a set of ministers, how long they've been in this position. Dear Minister of Health, it is obvious that, according to a long tradition, some people think that your life expectancy in this function has somehow expired, and they want you to leave. I believe that this is what they sincerely want and that it is the interest of many lobbying. To return to what you yourself have stressed in your reply to the SDS Members. They themselves contradict each other when they write in their interpretation: "The valid Slovenian health insurance system was established in March 1992 and has not experienced any real renovation or upgrade since then. The current regime is reflected in socialism and is not in line with the modern European framework of competitive health service providers." It's strange that Mr Grims is making a fuss over us to talk about ten years old things, and here they are talking about 24 years old things in interpretation, and he probably can't finish any debate alone, so he can't explain things to us that are over 70 years old. When the proposer states that the Slovenian healthcare system has not changed for more than 20 years, it is only clear that the Minister has taken over such a system from all predecessors, including from Mr Bručan, who, of course, had an ideal opportunity in his ministry because – when are reforms taking place? [[…]] Major reforms, such as health reform, take place at a time of conjuncture. When we have a huge inflow, when economic growth is, when money flows into the budget, when it flows into public cash registers, among other things, into health care, and then it is probably time to make health reform. Did something happen then? What did Mr. Bručan do? Let's see. Operations desks, that's what he was pretty interested in. Here he had much to do, by leading the negotiating group to purchase these tables came the SDS official, then a bit with Sanolabor maneuvered that they had brought these bidders into the right position and that then these operating tables were bought under, let's say, suspicious conditions. The following affair is followed by the decision of the Minister of Health to grant Auto-Moto related Slovenia or Flycom, with the support of the Government, the right to carry out emergency helicopter services for the victims, without a call for tender. Otherwise, after the Commission's pressure to prevent corruption and media decisions, Bručan withdrew and promised a public tender, but then said good-bye, and the government of Janez Janša had to pay some more than EUR 950,000 in compensation for the Automoto connection of Slovenia. And because they like to ask the SDS about evidence; here is the opinion of the anti-corruption commission that it was a corrupt act in 2007. You can see it, too. What else did the gentlemen do at the time? In pediatrics, pediatric clinic. You know, that's where the Pediatric Clinic had to be renovated and it was about laying down electrical cables, and corporate business and tax advice was provided by Partner Fin, who was led by a fairly connected man named Domen Zavrl, who received 51 million tolars. Although it is not clear why such cooperation in cable laying should be needed, it has somehow expired. Well, among other things, this gentleman later had to return 600,000 euros that his company was supposed to try to conceal. Now I'm not going to go any further to explain the human resources adventures of the then government. According to public institutions from Postojna, Murska Sobota General Hospital, Maribor General Hospital, Clinical Center Ljubljana And Lady, named Saša Markovic, received and so on – that we will not go too long in this direction and too far. These were the conditions that were then dealt with by the government when the yellow sun was shining in the blue sky in Slovenia. These times of conjuncture then, of course, passed, the times of crisis came. Unfortunately, these good times of conjuncture have not been used to bring about health reform, so the crisis has hit the health system so much more and left devastating consequences behind. Several times today, it has been mentioned that since 2009, funds for the implementation of health programmes have decreased by around EUR 420 million, according to five years. And now someone expects that after this shock, the current government, under the leadership of Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, will arrange this in two years so that everything will be fine and right and we will come back to the green branch. And let me point out, this government is trying. In 2014, an additional 30 million were provided for the implementation of health activities, 57 million in 2015, 60 million in 2016, for the reduction of waiting periods and 16 million euro in particular. The balance sheet of the Health Insurance Office also shows that the balance sheet has improved; the balance sheet of public institutions is also shown to lie from red numbers. More funds are also provided in the budget: in 2015 18 million, in 2016 13.5 million, in 2017 16 and several million euros. So it's about improvement, but of course it's not about overnight. The shock was too severe, the period during which health reform could be carried out, when this was the most painless and even most likely, was delayed. The Minister of Health has done her work in full. With the coming of her term of office, she took over the situation when we did not have a valid health plan in the country, although this is a statutory obligation of the Health and Health Insurance Act – the last healthcare plan expired in 2013 – the Minister made it clear that it is most important to systematically resolve the situation that she sets clear goals for the future on the basis of a realistic assessment; and that is exactly what happened. It happened that, in cooperation with international experts, she prepared an analysis of the situation, which led to a Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025 and, of course, we have a Strategic Document Together for the Society of Health. Now we know where we want to go, the goals are clear. This country did not have a strategic document in this area before. Many times today were mentioned in the emergency centres, and somehow it felt as if they were trying to tell us or the ministers that they were wearing foreign feathers, but it wasn't true. This is the fact that these emergency centres have already been planned and set out in the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period 2007-2023, that this has been set up, but it should be stressed that at the beginning of the mandate the situation in the area of the construction of emergency centres has been catastrophic. The threat was that European funds should be reimbursed, so that the Emergency Centre Novo Mesto and the Emergency Centre Nova Gorica were before the construction began, while no funds were provided at the Emergency Centre Nova Gorica, while the other emergency centres were somewhere in between. Today, all ten emergency centers are operational. Up to 30. 6. All operations within the Emergency Centre Network project have been physically and financially completed as they work. This should be an example, my lord, of good practice in the field of systemic health movements, when we can finally obtain the modern and European comparable organisation of emergency medicine, which is in particular for patients. So it's not that we're out here now, who deserves it, but it's that there's a clear signal that these kind of structural changes are possible in the long run and that we can tackle them and that they can be successful and that each of us can feel them on our own. It was obvious that nothing was done. The Law on Health Databases – adopted by the Act on the acquisition and transplantation of parts of the human body due to treatment – adopted by the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions, of which the Republic of Slovenia – has also been adopted, Resolution on National Programme, Nutrition and Physical Activities for Health – has also been adopted. 16 sub-legislative acts, action plans: Action plan for the implementation of the environmental health strategy for children and adolescents, the drug action plan for the period, a comprehensive plan for the treatment of people suspected of ebola, technical guidelines for the elimination of domestic violence in the implementation of health activities, guidelines for the promotion of health in the workplace. [[…]] This is 2015. 2016 – what is most important and I have already mentioned – Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025, two Regulations, Dementia Management Strategy in Slovenia by 2020, 15 Regulations, not to mention further. What is most important now is that the package of legislation which is promised and which the Minister claims will be either adopted or presented by the end of the year, and it is obviously in the interest of someone who is also in the interest of preceding this Minister's duration, as has been the case with ministers over the past 10 years. There's a lot of tricks in me, I'd say, really demagogic tricks. We have heard that he is trying to justify himself or explain the tragedy in Isola when he apologized to a foolish murderer for his long - term waiting species. If someone is mentally ill and commits such horrors, then it is least cynical to explain it with too long waiting species. If I withdraw, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc has undertaken her tasks in a thorough, systematic and responsible manner. In all ways, it strives to maintain the public health system in such a way as to remain solidarity and accessible to all citizens. Actually, it's the backbone of the social state. If all the lobbies or individual groups scatter this spine to us, then we will live in a society that we personally do not wish for or for our children. I trust and trust the Minister that she will not give up her efforts in which we will continue to support her. Madam Minister, I wish you every success in fulfilling the coalition programme. I want you to insist on your goals. It is self-evident that I will support you and, together with my coalition colleagues, I will vote against the interpretation. Although some would very much like to write off the end of the game in halftime, that will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u143	Procedural. Now I don't know who was first. I think it was Mr. Jože Tanko's first.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much. During that time, the two men who were in charge of the work of the assembly were replaced. I think your predecessor should react in this part. We are talking about the intervention of Minister Kolar Celarc on 20 September 2014. We are not talking about the archival documents questioned and the ministers who are in history. In a way, what Mr Matić did was, in fact, a typical testimony to the debates of Members of the largest coalition party. When they don't know what to say in defense of their minister, they're dealing with history. Prehistory; 15, 20 minutes prehistory. Milojka Kolar Celarc is responsible for not doing the things she was told about in this interpretation, and neither her discussion nor her supporters went to any document or at least to try to turn down the impressions from the interpretation. Not one of them was discussing it this way. Obviously, Mr President, the coalition Members do not know what the interpretation of the work of the Minister or Government is – paragraph 1 of Rule 250 of the Rules of Procedure. They are not even able to read this in order to know what is being discussed today when interpreting. I propose, Mr President, that you take a shorter course because two more interpretations will be in order to learn what is the topic of interpretation, which time period covers and which matters we are talking about. As far as the effects of the Minister are concerned. The government has passed seven laws in the normative programme this year, and it's the end of the year, and we have one in the first reading. You're saying you've done it? I don't know how many years ago. You're great. You'll break when you get to seven. You're already so excited about one in the first reading. However, Mr President, as I have suggested, a shorter course. Teach Mr Matić and the others to at least know what interpretation is, because it is a personal act. We are talking about the work of a government or a single minister and not about public health and similar stories as we have witnessed today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u145	I've got two more procedurals. I'll answer that first. I can only say that when the time for discussion is up, then it is procedurally good that the debate continues. I will not teach anything, but I would ask that we stop now with procedural ones, because we just want to look for an extra time to either oppose what has been said – this was not procedural. This was not procedural in the view of the President. Can we stop with procedural and continue? Do you insist on two more procedural ones? They're both insisting, all right. Okay, then we'll both listen and then we'll continue. Unless, of course, there will be a procedural proposal. He's got a word for procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. My suggestion would be that the honourable SMC Member, who spoke of 24 years, would kindly remind you that 24 months may seem to be waiting in waiting lines for more than 24 years, but all I have talked about has been about the last 24 months. Because, Mr Matić, I hope that this will not be too much of a shock for you, but that you have found 40 million for Mr jedan's company, but you haven't found 40 million for critical waiting lines, it has happened in the last 24 months. That you've found 123 million for illegal migrants, but you haven't found 120 million to eliminate all the waiting lines, it's happened in the last 24 months. Even if this is the source of that river, it's spreading among the railways, I can tell you that this minister's contribution to science, to finding a new age, has also been in the last 24 months. Because in the last 24 months people have learned that after the Stone Age, the Bronze Age, the Iron Age, unfortunately in Slovenia is now a waiting time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u147	It's really not meant to amuse us. It is procedurally designed to really say something that has at least a procedural form. We must acknowledge to our colleague Tank, in this case, that he has tried to have a procedural debate through the form. This time it was used because you don't have time to give a replica. That's why I'm giving you a warning. Dr. Franz Ducky, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. I came in half sick this morning, and now I'm out of my mind. [[Laughing in the hall]] That's not funny. You're cutting yourself up here like monkeys. That's not funny. How do we remember this "like" interpolation? After SDS has studied its dramatic arch, Dr. Logar Dr. Tomšič has learned what is a critical analysis of discourse, that in SMC you still do not understand what a coalition is, and that we are making a fool of anyone who already has a toothache, much more. As a Member, I'm not going to read now at number 90, what people are writing to me, I could read some swearing, I could read that it's a waste of time, I could read that it's empty bullshit. We are an ageing society – we are. We don't have enough money in the health system – we do. We don't have enough people in the health system - that's right. In the health system, one is working, one is dying — that's how it is. We have some problems with concessions – that's right. Certain hospitals have negatives — yes. And this is where I'm gonna stop. In these 15 hours, except for my colleague Gantar, I have not heard any of this debate. You should have stopped this already, President, it's not an interpellation, it's some ping-pong I've had after two years in a suitcase. My procedural proposal is to suspend this meeting at this time and to convene the College of the President of the National Assembly after the meeting and to finally teach your fellow leaders what we should be doing here! Why don't you fucking go see what the National Assembly is doing? Because I've got this suitcase! Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u149	We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister of Health and the representative of the Interpellation Applicant will be given the floor. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! What did today’s long debate show? In particular, how many factors are responsible for the state of the health system in Slovenia and why we are of vital interest to all citizens and citizens that this system works best. If anyone in my position wanted to make excuses, he would simply say: The standards are set by the Medical Chamber, the doctors are bound by their oath and the code, the budget is the smallest share for health care from all EU Member States and most of the money, which is two thirds, is at the Health Insurance Institute. And even though it's all true, it's not, and it can't be an excuse. On the contrary! The Minister responsible or Minister is the first one in the country to be responsible for the health situation. It is responsible for setting up a system to move forward with the time to be updated professionally and re-engineered and, above all, to ensure that, in accordance with our constitutional definition, all citizens and citizens have equal access to health services. This is my responsibility, Your Honor, and therefore now is the time to say one more thing about values. For at the end of the day it is quite literally always about what you believe and what you are willing to fight for to the end. I can't and can't fight a crazy mind coming to the hospital. I don't know, and I can't fight the wrong pipe. But I know, I can do, and I want to fight the circumstances that make such irreparable mistakes, accidents or crimes in the system possible. We are fighting to shorten waiting lines with a series of systemic measures based on a clear state of knowledge of the pilot project, with additional financial inputs and also with a police investigation into unacceptable infringements. We are fighting to recharge the universal basket of services and that citizens will indeed have equal access to health services and that we will be an exemplary European country with a regulated health system. We fight to make our public health system sustainable in the long term, because we mean not only the generation of our parents, but also the generations of our children and grandchildren. We are fighting to regulate the implementation of health activities as a private sector in a transparent way and to ensure that healthcare workers are paid according to the efficiency and quality of their work. We are fighting to transform supplementary insurance into a fairer system, which will preserve and nominate more resources in the heart of health care, but not offer marginal and huge profits. We fight not to allow tragic or perverse cases to shed a bad light on the vast majority of the lives of life-sustaining health workers and workers. When we talk about health care, we often touch on key values that made me decide to enter politics three years ago: ethics, humanism, equality, intergenerational solidarity, justice and honesty. If you give me your trust again today, I will continue to make a sincere effort to go along this path with all healthcare stakeholders for all citizens. This is how I understand public health, so I understand my responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u151	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the Interpellation Speaker, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u152	What did today's interpolation bring? The fact and statements that the Government under the leadership of Milojka Kolar Celarc, who is the backbone of the social state, is successful in the health system, to work successfully and to deal successfully with matters. Minister, in my closing speech, I expected answers to my specific questions and not reading pearpanfletts that are well-heared, but not everything is as nice in reality as you said today. So, in today's 15-hour period, we've been asking you a number of questions that we haven't been able to answer. Why has the normative plan that you have set yourself not yet been fulfilled? Why have you not been able to draw up laws that, in your opinion, are key laws that will help change things in the health system? You did not respond to what are the systemic solutions to prolong waiting periods or to reduce waiting periods; hence, waiting periods will no longer be extended. Coalition Members also spoke about these systemic solutions, which, unfortunately, have not been heard in the National Assembly today. You haven't answered my multiple questions about tackling corruption in health systems. You have not answered me what you have done in two and a half years to ensure that corruption does not occur and that you and your fellow Members, or your fellow Members of the Party, who have cited here today the suspicions of corruption, what you will do in this area. So there were no answers to the key questions. What systemic solutions in the area of reduction of waiting periods are long-term? Long-term, you only talk about short-terms. And how much money are you gonna put in these things? Then you didn't answer, you didn't answer why there's no legislation, but when will be. That's not what we're interested in. We are interpolating your work, and today I have a sense in the implementation of the Member that time or as I would call it, the thought goes only between 2004 and 2008 and as if we were interpolating another minister. Interpellation therefore refers to the 8 points to which you have responded today only because it is not your fault that it is not your fault that former ministers, former governments, that you have been given a poor status, but at the same time you ensure that our public health system is good, better than in other neighbouring countries. You did not answer my question whether the Ministry of Finance is preparing in the long term, i.e. from 2018 onwards, the reduction in health resources from 6.6 GDP to 6. You didn't answer that. You just laughed, but there was no answer. You have not accepted responsibility for the situation. Once again, you've moved on to former ministers and former governments. You do not want to face the consequences, and as we have heard today by the coalition Member, you have the wrong priorities, you have been expected to have a clear vision of having legislation prepared, or that legislation will be read as well. But most of all, it was painful, or the most common thing to hear was that the opposition was being held by the lobby. That the opposition is behind a lobby that prevents your work, not only in the National Assembly but also outside the National Assembly. I didn't get an answer here either, which is what those lobbyists are doing together with the opposition to your work. It's nice to talk, it's nice to judge, but tell me the facts, Madam Secretary. We haven't heard that from you. But we have heard that there are some lobbyists, so the lobbyists in the back, who, therefore, do not want to change, probably because of the fact that the taxpayers are taking advantage of the tax money, which is why there are also various medical anomalies, overpayments of medical equipment, waiting periods, and so on. What I was saying in my debate is happening today and here. Corruption in waiting times, in skipping waiting lines; the lobby we're talking about everywhere, everyone's talking about -- you didn't exactly tell us which lobby. Please state who is the one in the healthcare sector who is preventing changes in the health field. At the same time, we also find that young doctors are going abroad because they are in an irregular situation at home, do not let them work at home, and go elsewhere because they are more successful, and eventually better paid. Patients also go abroad, to treatment in Croatia, to Austria, where there is a poor health system, as you say, but obviously more effective and can go to a private or public health service, and the insurance company will return the treatment. Foreign doctors can also treat or have outpatients and the insurance company pays them. In any case, you want to push our doctors through the Health Activity Act and not allow them to work. So, foreign doctors can be and our patients can go abroad and be treated there. You have asked us, or Members, to be sound in mind after two and a half years, I think no one else can remain cold in what is happening in the health system and what arrogance we are experiencing today by the Minister when she does not answer the specific questions. So you have not fulfilled any coalition commitments, nor have you fulfilled the conclusions given to you or adopted in the National Assembly, either at the parental committee or at the National Assembly. You ignored these conclusions in the field of system regulation, treatment of children with special needs, and ignored this conclusion that you must inform or submit the Proposal for a Regulation on emergency medical care to the National Assembly. So you don't really respect the National Assembly. You said that you would not give people the joy of giving up or leaving this area. What people? A citizen, or a lobby, or who? And whether you follow or follow Dr Cerar stands behind you with these words: "When I appointed her as a health minister, I knew she would improve the lives of our citizens and citizens and improve the health system to be what we deserve." [[…]] What do we deserve, Madam Secretary? Like today? And you will not give this satisfaction to the citizens to leave, you have made this clear and loud today! It was said that everything was O.K., nothing needed to change. I think December 12th is the time when this agony will end with you. Because everything is O.K. and nothing needs to be changed in the health system. The opposition will, of course, be monitoring your work, but I think it's part of the coalition, because they've given you time to settle things. So far, we have been monitoring your work and will continue to make recommendations, including meetings. I expect you to participate actively in these sessions so that you do not avoid the responsibility you have so far. I hope, however, that you will certainly be defended in the coalition today, but there is some unrest within the health coalition, as well as differences in this implementation. Today we have heard that they are not pleased with you, so on the one hand I do not understand those coalition Members who have thought and debated in this direction, so that they do not support you or that they are not pleased with you, and yet they leave you in this area, in this place. Today's interpolation wasn't just like that, people saw it, and what it's like in this ministry, what are the coalition's views and you're looking at health care. But most of all, I have to say that the responses to what I asked you; that is, corruption in health care, lobbying in health, the networks that control, as you yourself have talked about – unfortunately, the answer was not Mrs. Minister! Who are you defending? Which lobby are you defending that you haven't spoken their names today or that you don't need names, at least groups? We have been informed that we are defending a medical condition or management of the Medical Chamber, but you have not answered me what you think about the joint declaration of doctors in which they told you, today and here we want changes because we are overloaded because we are afraid to work and so on. After a tragic event in Isol, you convened a meeting of all directors of public institutions and went on vacation, Madam Minister. This is your responsibility! And there's no excuse here, there's no excuse here, Madam Secretary. It is sometimes to be understood, but in the event that you convene a meeting and leave, but it is a security situation and that public institutions have demanded security, increased security, this is extremely irresponsible of you. The Network of Emergency Centres, Madam Minister, once boast, secondly you say that it is bad that you have accepted such a project, which was incomplete, but on the other hand you did not have a problem taking pictures in 10 emergency centres and saying, "This is what I did." Make up your mind now — whether the emergency centres are okay or not. I think that this is a good thing for Slovenian health care, but with great shortcomings, as you yourself find out, and in two years you could do so. And you knew about these problems already in February 2015 and you did not act for pediatrics until March 2016, Madam Minister. Why not before? Why did you not act immediately when three meetings of the Committee and one of the National Assembly were convened? You haven't answered that or you're saying it was bad projects and it's not your fault. Then you are not to blame, therefore, that in our largest healthcare facility UKC Ljubljana, there are anomalies as they were at the Neurological Clinic, where there were no cases – so they did not report things to you, and you are staring at one eye because you requested the resignation of the professional director or director of Neurology, and this did not happen – your authority fell there! And then you say you don't have a chance. You have 6 members from 11 in the Council of the Institute of UKC Ljubljana, if you want, that's right. Praise the foreign doctors you imported for UKC Maribor. Can you boast that you have achieved more specialties in certain areas? You can't! So you're involved, or the Ministry is responsible, and you agree to call for specializations. You're reapplying to a third party. Accept that responsibility, Minister. You wrote in pediatrics that you can achieve an increase in specialization. And your colleague told you that specialization, that emergency doctors are some new knowledge that started in 2006, but now we are 2016, and that specialization takes place for five years and when we have calculated all this – 2012 issues are closed. So already urgent doctors and more specialties could ask you if you knew already in February 2015 that these doctors were missing because you were warned about this, Madam Minister. So the answers, which are systemic solutions, long-term systemic solutions that have long-term effects, we have heard today, you will accept or you will accept rather to shorten waiting periods. I also asked you if these waiting periods are really shrinking, or under any pressure. That's what I've been asking you because I don't know, I mean, it's been heard that the doctors are under terrible pressure that they have to arrange this to be nice statistics. But when this is over, when the opposition calms down, when people calm down, the waiting periods will grow enormously because they will re-enter these people. These are just statements that came from the hospitals, and that's why I asked you about it, and you could agree that it wasn't true that it wasn't happening. But you didn't answer, Madam Secretary. You also gave your consent to the doctor, pardon, Master Kopač for UKC Ljubljana, who has twelve million losses in half a year and is forecasting cold-blooded 19 million at the end of the year. And you say it's okay. It's inherited. If I had inherited a bad condition, I would have done everything I could to have this situation reduced in my bank account or that the negative is going to be positive, and you're talking about 19 million in cold blood. And then they'll say, we don't do surgeries anymore, we don't do interventions because we don't get the money. And that's okay? Of course, you have no influence because you're not the director. You gave your consent to the appointment of the headmistress in Brežica, who is a market inspector. Therefore, we have not received concrete answers, nor in the field of corruption, nor in the field of why there is no legislation, nor how the waiting types will be reduced. What's hottest. I hope you'll have it by December 12th. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-10-18-SDZ7-Redna-23.ana.u153	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on interpolation and move on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellations propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision following the discussion: The National Assembly shall, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, extend its non-trust to the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. In accordance with Article 118, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the non-trust of the Minister will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of Members and Members vote for it is 46 or more. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Let's vote. There are 80 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, has not been voted in confidence. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
