ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Susana Lepi Šimenko, Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Erika Dekleva, Iva Dimic until 6 p.m., Ljudmila Novak until 6 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Kamal Izidor Shaker, Dr. Franz Runczek, Franz Lai, Uroš Prikl from 13.30 p.m., mag. Matthew Tonin from 19:00 on and Marjan Dolinšek from 15 till 20:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We move on to the 26th A-point of the agenda, the proposal of the Minister of Culture candidate. On 10 May 2016, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar, proposed that he appoint Mr Anton Peršak as Minister for Culture. I give the floor to Dr Mir Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 10 May 2016, I proposed to the National Assembly that Mr Anton Peršak be appointed Minister of Culture. Mr Peršak, a candidate for Minister of Culture, has been active in the field of culture throughout his career. He is a university-graduate director and a university-graduate Comparativeist. After his degree at the Academy of Theatre, Radio, Film and Television, he acted as an independent cultural worker, director, writer, or publicist and critic, he was employed by AGRRFT as an assistant and later as an associate. After 1992 he was a Member of the First Congress of the Republic of Slovenia, then the longtime mayor of Trzin Municipality and a member of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia as a representative of the interest group in the field of culture. At the same time, he worked as a writer, a publicist, and at first also as a critic, and a theatre director. He wrote ten books, participated in a number of journals, from literary-scientific, lexicographic, essayist, publicist to historical. He wrote radio and television games as well as numerous literary, theatrical, and film critics and newspaper articles from various fields. For two years he was president of the Association of Slovenian Writers and then five years President of the Slovenian Centre of PEN, and in October 2014 he was appointed Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture. It follows from the above that, in addition to professional knowledge, the candidate also has extensive political experience. Mr Peršak will also contribute, on the basis of political experience, to the successful and accelerated implementation of the objectives set out in this cultural mandate by the Coalition Treaty. In it, we have written down coalition partners that we will advocate for a state-owned, free, inclusive and widely accessible culture and the autonomy of creation. We have committed ourselves to strengthening Slovenian culture, language and cultural heritage, because in them we see the promoter of creativity, social cohesion and economic development throughout Slovenian cultural space. On the basis of the above references, I have no doubt that Mr Persak will pay particular attention in his work as Minister to closer inter-departmental integration, cooperation with local communities and strengthening dialogue with all stakeholders in the field of culture, particularly with the non-governmental sector. As he personally assured me, he will work towards maintaining good solutions and eliminating or improving past bad practices. Let me first highlight the good wages and great achievements of Slovenian culture. Our culture, regardless of our relative smallness, is very quality and diverse, visible and successful on a global scale, which can and does us proudly. However, for many years now we have been witnessing a loud demand for a thorough overhaul of this important social area, which unfortunately faces a number of challenges at national and global level. Therefore, in the coalition agreement, as the first necessary measure, we have recorded a revision of the so-called cultural model. The cultural situation is far from ideal and therefore requires an effective solution to the problems faced by creators and other cultural workers. These and other challenges must be addressed in a deliberate manner in dialogue with all relevant stakeholders, but at the same time decisively and without delay. Your Honor! Culture has always been a driving force for Slovenian development, the development of the Slovenian people, especially in the most difficult trials. She was one of the most important constitutional elements in the creation of a independent Slovenian state. We must be aware that cultural policy has not yet seen all the major changes and the necessary adjustments to the new social political and economic circumstances since Slovenia's independence. I therefore expect the Minister of Culture to take decisive action in the direction of urgent and European comparable systemic changes in these changed social conditions, which will make it possible to do so with the exception of autonomy in this area. I am convinced that Mr Anton Peršak is the right choice for all of these challenges, as his references, including knowledge of the Ministry's activities, ensure that he can approach the objectives set without delay. For all the reasons I propose to Mr Anton Persak for his appointment as Minister of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his further explanation. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee on Culture and responded to questions raised by members and members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the committee. It concludes that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. The Committee's report will be presented by Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Ministers and Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at the 13th urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture on 16 May 2016, Anton Peršak presented himself to the members and members of the Committee and answered their questions. In his opening remarks to the members and members of the Committee, the proposed candidate presented Slovenian culture, which, despite its financial problems and outdated cultural model, considered to be very successful and representative. Among other things, he said that in view of the relatively small community within which this culture originates, even in the international space, our culture is disproportionately perceived and valued. On the other hand, he considered that for many years there had been a tendency to reform the cultural system and explained that there were a disproportionate number of people working in the field of culture, including more than 3 000 500 self-employed, more than a third of whom lived below the poverty threshold. He presented some problems in the area of culture, such as the acute lack of funds to restore, protect and maintain cultural heritage, in particular immovable in public property, and the complete absence or lack of a market for art. He also said that a series of strategies would have to be drawn up and legislation revised. In his view, key developments will need to be made in the area of protection of cultural heritage, public sector regulation in terms of improving public service, and the adoption of a law on urgent cultural programmes, the preparation and adoption of a national programme for culture, the preparation of a new law on the realization of public interest in culture, the media law and the adoption of a new law on RTV Slovenia, which would allow the depoliticisation of RTV authorities. The debaters and discussers, after presenting the candidate for minister, wanted more detailed answers to some questions. The candidate answered the questions raised and took note of his views, views and opinions at the meeting of the Committee, as well as of more concrete proposals for action in the individual areas exposed to the Ministry of Culture. A more detailed presentation of the candidate, the questions of the members and the members of the committee and the replies of the candidate are reflected in the record of the committee meeting. Following the completion of the presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee, with 10 votes and 1 against, adopted the opinion that the presentation of Anton Persak, the candidate for the Minister of Culture, was appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u5	I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. I'm holding Bon Clanjschek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! Your Honor! We will not oppose the appointment of Mr Anton Persak as Minister for Culture in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We believe that it is the responsibility of the right person to be appointed as Minister of Culture in the hands of the Prime Minister of the Government, and therefore we believe that he has proposed a candidate whom he considers to be the most appropriate. At the hearing of the Committee on Culture, Mr Anton Peršak presented his views on the cultural situation and gave a lot of detailed information on the organisation of Slovenian culture, the work of culturers and the entire Slovenian cultural system. He showed a great deal of knowledge of the open issues, which is understandable, since he has served as Secretary of State at the Culture Ministry for two years. We sincerely hope that the knowledge acquired by him during the course of his duties as Secretary of State will help him to serve as Minister, while at the same time not being a major obstacle. We hope that he will find his answers to the open questions that led to the departure of the former Minister of Culture. We also want his work to be marked by quality dialogue with both culturers and artists, which can be a major challenge, as well as with coalition partners and other ministers, which is sometimes an even greater challenge. We expect the new Minister of Culture to find appropriate answers to the questions that remain open in the area of culture. Despite the fact that the Committee on Culture was well aware of the situation, we also lacked proposals for solutions to individual problems and not just a detailed description, so we sincerely hope that these solutions, such as the issue of the cultural euro law, will be clarified by the proposals for laws to be addressed in the National Assembly. We wish the Minister a great deal of success in his work. As has already been said, we will not oppose his appointment in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, the last of which is Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u8	Respectable both presidents, respected ministerial team, respected young visitors and visitors on the balcony, respected colleagues and colleagues! It is and must be understood as a fundamental national project of the first kind for the Modern Centre. We have already clearly written this into our electoral programme, into our programming documents and, together with coalition partners, into a coalition agreement. What we have written down in the coalition agreement has already been said much by the President of the Government, so I would not repeat myself here. What is important and what is reported in this coalition agreement is that we also understand culture as one of the fundamental elements of the interconnection between the various resources not only at the level of policy action at the country level, but also at the local community level and within our international action. It is certainly no secret that the expectations of the Modern Centre Party, in particular the parliamentary groups, are very large to the work of the Ministry of Culture. We wish that the results of the work will soon point to a recast, where there will be a different need, and above all to the current needs of an adapted cultural policy, which will be refreshed in some way. This is particularly true in areas that have been neglected or neglected in recent periods, or have been consciously neglected in some cases. These include an emphasis on cultural heritage, on media legislation, on architectural policy, on film education, on design, also on copyright, on the status of cultural workers, on more effective administrative control of work and, of course, on the appropriate high-purpose and rational use of budgetary resources. We must certainly also stress that we are aware and that, already through our parliamentary experience, it has been demonstrated that successful pursuit of the objectives set cannot be achieved without the patient and close cooperation and dialogue not only between the ministries, not only in the relationship between the government and Parliament, but also with all the civil society concerned in the field of culture, which is extremely diverse, very vivid and full of challenges and expectations. From the presentation by Mr Anton Persak, Minister for Culture, on the Committee on Culture, as well as from his previous both professional and political experience in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, we expect him to be able to carry out with his team all these challenges, the content and commitments of the coalition agreement, the national cultural programme and to cooperate constructively with all the stakeholders already mentioned. We believe that Mr Peršak, as a discerning knowledgeer of the state of culture, will be responsible, inclusive and also with the necessary degree of patience to carry out his role as Minister of Culture. On these grounds, of course, we give him one unanimous support for his candidacy, and on this occasion we wish him all the good in his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u9	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u10	Colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens! The change in the ministerial chairs of Cerara's government no longer counts, nor does it take seriously. But today is certainly one of the more problematic and unreasonable decisions. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, on her resignation from the ministerial office, said that she was the first minister in history to have to leave because she acted legally. She gave difficult words to Cerar, who was building his entry into politics on Purgatory politics, enriched with legal knowledge and many experiences he was selling for good money, of course at the expense of taxpayers. Let me remind you that the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, assessed this same minister as all the other ministers and ministers two months ago on the basis of the evaluation of the work done as successful. The question of the credibility of the Prime Minister is rightly raised if this is practically only a few days after a positive assessment by the entire ministerial team and the statement that there is no reason to replace it requires the resignation of the Minister, and this is due to the many years old problem of the mine in Idrija. In short, the Minister of Culture had to leave because of the mines, which were logical, and so it should be, should be resolved at the inter-departmental level. If this were true of Cerara's policy, all ministers who have not done their job should be held accountable. But of course that didn't happen. It is true, however, that Juliana Bizjak Mlakar was the only minister of the Cerarje government to speak publicly about problematic economic activities to be carried out through the public cultural institution in Idrija. It would require immediate action in an ethical and moral environment, but it happened the other way around. She had to go. A minister who didn't want to stay out of the pressure of the elite. We have experienced something similar when the acting director of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana Brigita Čokl, who spoke on the Commission for Public Finances about health corruption and even disclosed specific data. Choklov was quickly replaced, and so far her political supporters almost declared her unappreciative. Cerar's decision to put Tone Persak as Minister of Culture, who has served as Secretary of State and was his right-hand man, is a real precedent. At the so-called hearing before the Committee on Culture, Peršak refused to comment on Cerar's conduct and did not answer the question whether the Minister acted correctly because she did not give up the pressure of Cerar and followed the legal opinion obtained, the expertise of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the Institute for EU Law. The SS presentation by Tonet Persak on the Committee on Culture made it clear that there will be no cultural change. Even after the arrival of Tonet Persak, the cultural resource remains financially malnourished. And apparently that's not what he's asked of him. The fact that the Minister's candidate, who served almost half the term of office as State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, does not know, respected, does not know the core commitments of the Coalition Treaty on Culture, tells us everything. Nevertheless, Tone Peršak is the right choice for the coalition under a and b, although not long ago he stated that he no longer wants to serve as secretary and wants to go back to writing. It is also unusual to reason with those who build their decision to support Persak on his personality and recognize him as a non-conflict and tolerant person. But Tone Peršak is something completely different when you go to political accounting where he should never have been. As a promoter of the exclusion of Janez Janša from the organization of the Slovenian centre Pen patient and non-conflict properties did not show. Even more. He used non-democratic methods with his fellow thinkers, and Janša prevented any possibility of explaining or defending himself. It was a method that was contrary to the Constitutional Charter of this organisation and to all democratic principles. And that will be the future minister of culture. As a result, the Slovenian centre Pen remained impoverished because it was then protested by Boris Pahor, Drago Jančar, Tone Kuntner, Alenka Puhar, Brane Senegačnik, Jože Snoj, Ferri Lainšček and others. But maybe these are the qualities he's looking for, and he's expecting Miro Cerar. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, the fact remains that the policy and conduct of Mir Cerar are based on the complete amnesia of ethical and moral principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u12	President, thank you for your word. Hello to the Council of Ministers! Of course so do you, respected colleagues and respected colleagues! At Desus, we have proposed Mr Persak as Minister of Culture. We are convinced that he has all the necessary competence to perform this important function. We can say that cultural is in the right sense of the word. At the same time, it has political experience. He has been working on culture all the time, and practically from his student years to today. Allow me to give you a brief introduction to his work so far. Mr. Anton Persak graduated from directorship and comparative literature. At first, he was independent as a free artist. He worked as a writer, publicist and critic all the time. But he also turned out to be a theatre director. For years he also passed on his knowledge to younger generations by teaching at the Academy of Theatre, Radio, Film, and Television. More than ten books came out of his pen. He also received a nomination for the Kresnik Prize for the novel Usedline, which describes his past. For a period of two years, Slovenian writers also entrusted him with the management of their society. Later he took over the management of the Slovenian centre of Pen for five years. Our candidate for minister is not only an experience in the field of culture, but he is also more than actively involved in politics. At the end of the 1980s, he chaired the Constitutional Commission of the Association of Slovenian Writers, which monitored the constitutional changes of the country and co-sponsored the writing constitution, the concept of the Slovenian Constitution, which took into account the possibility of including Slovenia more broadly in the Yugoslav framework and highlighted the need for political, economic and cultural sovereignty. It was some kind of starting point for the Slovenian Constitution in 1991. Mr Peršak gained political experience while serving as the first President of the Democratic Party of Slovenia. In 1992, the citizens entrusted him with the mandate of representative of all the people, so he served for four years as a Member. Also at the local level, voters actually saw in him and entrusted him with the role of mayor of the newly established Trzin Municipality. In addition to Mr Peršak's experience in both the cultural and political fields, the candidate for Minister of Culture has also been more specifically familiar with the work of the Ministry of Culture as State Secretary in this mandate. Of course, he learned the situation at the Ministry. In the Desus Group, we expect him to keep his promise and actually keep what is good at the Ministry, change or eliminate what is bad. At the same time, we expect that, by the end of the mandate, it will have to carry out the most urgent tasks in the field of culture, such as the preparation of certain strategies, the preparation of a systematic overhaul of the cultural model, the adoption of solutions in the area of cultural financing and the change in the area of cultural heritage protection. As the candidate said at the hearing on the parental committee, there is still much to be done, even though we are already halfway through the term of office. Many proposals have already been prepared, such as a study for a new national cultural programme and studies for the protection of cultural heritage. Of course, the candidate is also aware of the financial constraints. Culture has a financial problem not only from the point of view of the low share of resources in the state budget but also from the point of view of the lack of other levels of funding. In the DeSUS Group, we support Mr Persak's thinking that, according to the example of other countries, we should also look for other sources of funding, such as funds and foundations. In public, Mr Peršak is known as a person involved in many areas, from environmental action to debate on Slovenian culture and society. In the DeSUS Group, we must also point out the fact that Mr Peršak is a calm gentleman and we believe that he will do so in relation to the government team and working with it. Given his excellent knowledge of culture and his experience in this area, we are confident in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners that he will work well with stakeholders in culture. Mr. Tone Peršak, you have a challenging assignment ahead of you. We believe that you will take them immediately and with all responsibility. We are aware, however, that we cannot expect miracles from you, especially given that you will have to look for the best solutions within existing funding. In view of your experience and personality, we do not doubt in the DeSUS Group that you will be able to resolve the majority if not all the objectives already set. Mr. Pershak, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u13	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the distinguished President of the Government, the ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! At a time when the President of the Government proposes to appoint Mr Anton Persak as the new Minister of Culture, a week of amateur culture is taking place in the field of culture, which raises public awareness of the importance and spread of the culture of lovers. Under the auspices of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities and the Association of Cultural Associations, more than a thousand cultural events will take place throughout Slovenia and in place. The plurality of cultural events testifies to the vitality of the cultural pulse even at a time when the public financial environment is not as favourable to it as anyone would like. The budgetary dot accompanying the candidate as minister will undoubtedly mark the continuation of the mandate not only of the cultural base but of governments as a whole. Days ago, we were able to read an article in one of the Slovenian newspapers about what the minister can afford, depending on his wallet. The author thus indicated that the effect of the individual minister was proportionate to the extent of the resources available. But that's not necessarily the case. In fact, the very days of a lover’s culture indicate how financial constraints can be overcome. On the basis of a biography that has been thoroughly dissected by the media in recent days, Anton Persak, a candidate for the Minister of Culture, would find it difficult to challenge the suitability of the first man in culture. From the 1980s onward, the director and competitiveist has been intensely involved in the cultural and political life of the nation. He marked him as co-author of the Writing Constitution as a Member, as mayor, as president of the Association of Slovenian Writers, as President of the Slovenian Pena, as State Councillor, as Secretary of State and we have released something. In response to his candidacy, unlike some predecessors or predecessors, he did not receive the sharp words of the professional and interested public. Most of them have thus stressed its openness to dialogue, its characteristic characteristics, which are particularly numerous in politics, and the above-mentioned experiences in culture and politics. Those who advocated a sharp cut to the top of the Ministry's staff structure, however, misjudged his role as second man at the Ministry of Culture in the last two years. In view of the above, we have listened with interest to his view of the management of the centre, the vision he has, as well as the assessment of the work of the predecessor. At the presentation before the parental committee, we paid particular attention to the candidate's definition of the attitude towards amateur culture as one of the most important promoters of cultural participation. We were also interested in the fate of the law on the so-called cultural euro. This long-term public investment plan, which would accelerate the realisation of certain urgent investment and other projects, is difficult to expect after a period of restrictive budgetary orientation in the public concerned. At a time when greater pressure is placed on the work of the institution of particular cultural and national importance, on Radiotelevision of Slovenia, it is also important that the respondent minister who has to worry about the adequacy of the normative protection of the institution is also responding. This should not even be left out in the care of the functioning of the media landscape at all. Even as the strategy in this area declines, the acuteness of the problems, the social status of journalists, media life with special importance status, the lack of transparency of ownership is only increasing. It follows from the candidate's replies that the issues mentioned are well aware of themselves. Its commitment to the Gradalist approach, to the gradual introduction of novelties, or to the adjustment of refugee relationships in culture, is noted. From this point of view, it ensures the stability of the director's policy, which, in the light of the need to create better conditions for cultural participation, is also most necessary at this moment. Respected and respected! The Minister is a member of the government, and in addition to her personal responsibility for her own, she also bears collective responsibility. We expect that the candidate for Minister of Culture, Mr Anton Peršak, will be able to carry out such a team task properly both for the benefit of the director, as well as for the government, whose part he will become, and in particular for the task of being able to carry out for the benefit of the citizens and citizens of this country. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will also support Mr Anton Persak's election as Minister of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u16	Dear Prime Minister, Honourable President, distinguished ministerial team, distinguished colleague and colleague! The candidate for Minister of Culture Anton Peršak is a man from the cultural sphere with rich experiences and not only knowledge but also understanding the position of culture. We think it is a suitable candidate, the only problem is that he will become the minister of the government team Mir Cerar, which leads to culture, as well as other social sub-systems of extremely harmful policies. We will therefore not oppose his appointment as Minister of Culture in the United Left. First, a few words about the exchange at the Ministry of Culture. Prime Minister Cerar told former Minister Juliani Bizjak Mlakar that she was misdirected, inactive and incompetent in the management of cultural policies and that she was proposed by her State Secretary as a candidate for her replacement, which is only the right-hand man of the Minister and also has an important impact on the ministry's functioning. This fact points to the fact that Prime Minister Cerar has clearly taken other reasons into account in the replacement. The minister was dismissed because she resisted the elite and suspicious business of public money in the Idrija Mine. Just so we're aware of that and you know we know it. Culture has lost €60 million in the budget over the last six years. This is a huge savings cut, and in some ways it is surprising that the situation in culture is not even more critical. The tightening of the belt is known in all dimensions of culture, but it was felt most naturally by the weakest, self-employed, plethora workers, while cultural programmes, immovable heritage and many public institutions also suffer tremendously. There has also been a decline in the quality and scope of the cultural offer as well as accessibility. At the hearing he also correctly noted Peršak and stressed that our culture has outstanding potential and from the culture of lovers to the most well-established cultures. However, it must be added here that these potentials will remain untapped or fade away if there is no reform of the cultural system that will enable these potentials to be realized. We have about 3 thousand 500 self-employed, of whom, unfortunately, more than a third lives below the poverty line. Obviously, the potential is very high, as a large number of candidates and candidates meet very strict criteria, but the country does not make it possible to live a decent life for cultural workers and does not allow the conditions for cultural production. The starting point is clear, therefore, that culture should no longer be financially malnourished. Countries that raise cultural budgets all the time, even in times of crisis, include Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Belgium and Austria, because they realize that culture is a condition of quality living, that it raises all other spheres of society and that it is not only a cost, but, above all, an opportunity, even in economic terms – for those who want to see the world only through profit. The future minister needs to be acknowledged that at the hearing he has some answers to show that he is capable of thinking about culture. We would also like to hear more about the area of the media that has suffered severe blows in the last decade, and it can happen that in the future we lose quality media to serve people and the public interest. The beats in the media area were double. On the one hand, market pressures, which have fully evaluated journalistic pressure and which have led to a great deal of chastity among newcomers, have therefore been subordinated to the centre of economic and political power. On the other hand, the direct political pressures that we monitor from week to week from the right, especially the SDS, to be more precise. Peršak can look at positive examples for the democratisation of the media landscape in Croatia, for example – I stress before the power of the fascist right was taken over – where there were a number of extremely positive projects in the previous government, such as public procurement. We particularly want future Minister Tonet Persak to be as ambitious and courageous as possible, brave both in representing the views of the Government and in providing greater resources for culture as well as in other measures that are urgently needed. We hope that he will be able to stop the clientelistic interests of the cultural elite and will open his ears in dialogue especially to those who often do not have a voice to be heard, but represent the basis of living culture in Slovenia. At the same time, we wish him not to drown in the paradigm of the government of Mir Cerar. Although Peršak with rich experience from the sphere of culture and the ability to look at it critically comes with good prospects, it is necessary to express a scepticism that he will be able to intersect with the direction of a government that not only does not have a hearing for culture, but is also harmful. As stated in the introductions, we will not oppose the appointment of Tonet Persak as Minister of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, and above all, I also address the distinguished candidate, Mr Tonet Persak, because I will communicate with him through technology in my address. First of all, everyone here is gathered, citizens and citizens to congratulate you on the week of the amateur culture 2016, which lasts from 13 May to 22 May. Interesting, even with Slovenian diplomacy day. With the week of amateur culture we place the Slovenian phenomenon of amateur culture at the centre of the event and expose its positive effects on society. The President of the Government acted very wisely, and he is very symbolic in his decision to appoint a new minister or candidate for a new minister this week, if he has to. There is a lot of symbolism in this, and this gives me a lot of motivation for further discussion. I looked at the website of the Association of Cultural Associations of Slovenia, which at the weekend of amateur culture on its website asks: "Culture without societies?" And he says, "Yeah, dead culture." The National Assembly is probably entirely, 100% for living culture, i.e. for cultural societies. What about the tax receipts, Mr. Tone Peršak? Tax registers for cultural societies. For New Slovenia and for Slovenian culture, you will be a great hero, if you are at the first government meeting, I am sure that today you will get confirmation, you will propose a debate and a proposal that tax collectors should at least be abolished for cultural societies. You're gonna be a big hero. This is what we need. There'll be nothing out of snitching. We in New Slovenia are working hard to ensure that our Slovenian culture does not become part of the Talilian European pot. The creation of a Culture Minister is, of course, also an opportunity for parliamentary parties to present their views on cultural policy. Slovenian culture means the treasure of national creation through the centuries, so we are Christian Democrats, and we believe that others, too, are proud of it and want to preserve it. At the same time, with appropriate legislation, promote the creativity and cultural participation of contemporary creators. For the present and future of the national community, whose identity is not based on the historically stressed statehood, nor on the extraordinary economic or military power of its elite, culture is indispensable. Without Slovenian culture there would be neither Slovenian state nor Slovenian politics. The values of cultural heritage and the achievements of modern cultural creativity can also be applied as an economic category in tourism, in printing, in discographic production, in industrial design and so on. We advocate the social recognition of culture, which has a special status because it is a vehicle of national interest, values and the way of individual and national self-realisation and creation. We advocate the promotion and development of Slovenian in traditional and new areas, in particular information technology, entrepreneurship, university and tourism. Active language policy is needed. Slovenian citizens must be assured that they can talk about all public matters and get information in the Slovenian language. When the Slovenian Language Office was established 15 years ago as a government body and thus the responsibility of the entire Government and all its departments was determined, it was put on the cultural reserve after some years. It was presented as a sector within the Ministry of Culture, and its tasks and responsibilities were particularly curtailed there, and it came to the lowest point at the time of this government as a service within another sector, as well as the field of organisational and human resources strangulation. How do you see the future of this body? We expect officials representing Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union to consistently exercise the right to use Slovenian as one of the official languages of the European Union. We want balanced care for the central cultural institutions and the decentralised network of these institutions by municipalities and provinces. All citizens have the right to enjoy a quality culture and to work in the field of culture. The countryside is the holder of authentic national culture and human tradition and cultural heritage, which is why it is particularly valid in Slovenian culture. Lover's cultural activity plays an important role in the development of an individual and represents an important positive contribution in the life of an individual and society. There are also some concrete facts that the Christian Democrats for Minister Anton Persak would like to draw particular attention to. Cut the limit on resources for culture. For example, libraries have lost a great deal of material in a few years. Do something to preserve the building’s heritage, where the country has no strategy, especially the problem of castles owned by the state, which do not have content and fall. In particular, let us expose the decaying Plečnik stadium behind Bežigrad and the church of St. Michael on the Barrow. The stove's big. We hope, Mr Peršak, that you have a positive attitude towards Plečnik and in particular his timeless humanist architecture. If you need any further information on Plečnik, I am sure you will call your colleagues and friends from the Czech Republic. Mr. Peršak, help Plečnik on his way to Unesco. Christian Democrats from the future minister are also expected to regulate the process of managing hidden graves in a work that falls within the competence of the Ministry of Culture. Cemeteries certified, marked and arranged in accordance with the law adopted in the National Assembly last year must be entered in the register of cultural heritage. This should actually be done by the memorial service after the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, and this is not happening according to our information, which is unacceptable. Since the future minister joined Desus's party, he showed that his ministry would be a political function. Of course, the ministerial function is a political function. Membership in a party may only mean the intensification of its political action. That is right, even though the culture in the public is seen as an almost consecrated thing that is not supposed to be adhering to politics. Since he is a famous culturer, even a master of Slovenian words, we expect that Slovenian cultural policy under his tactics will look at the basics of Slovenian culture. Members of New Slovenia will not oppose the candidate. We sincerely wish him much success and happiness in his work and a great deal of political support in eliminating tax bills for cultural societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Prepare Mr Matjaž German and Mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Today we have heard that culture is national. Surely, however, there is much more in my opinion – there is a field, a field, which in fact is a sensitive, intellectual, emotional way that opens up some human issues that are more tangible, less tangible and certainly addresses them in some liberal, free-thinking way to all its stakeholders, to those who create, and to those who enjoy its fruits. Thus, culture and art are certainly the spirit of the state. They are a way in which, as a community, we understand ourselves intimately, how we understand each other, and how we really understand the world around us. When we talk about culture, we are certainly talking about some complex, complex processes and we cannot limit them only through the prism of some tax registers or some different populism manners. It is really about processes that take place in very diverse fields, both in the field of performing art, in the field of film, in the field of music, visual arts, architecture, cultural heritage, as well as in the cultural culture that we have heard today. And that is why we have, in a political sense, and we must have, the Ministry of Culture, because it is the Ministry's primary task to in some coordinated way promote different cultural thinking and then the Minister as his primary or core work integrates them into his own vision of the development of cultural policy. I think that this is the only way in which dialogue between different actors in cultural policy can actually occur, of course, in the way that some of the shifts that both professional and lay-out public are expected to take place in this sector are difficult. When we talk about a ministerial function, we certainly need to talk about a function that has to fulfil a fundamental virtue, and this is that with some culture of dialogue, with some reasonable argument, it processes all these stakeholders later both at the theoretical level and at the level of some ideas then also in practice. It is a fundamental principle of cultural or artistic omaca and some basic trust that the minister must fulfil and must be recognized as such by the lay and professional public. Mr Peršak also answered professional questions more than satisfactorily at the hearing. He has shown knowledge of Slovenian cultural landscape, as he has long-standing references in this area, where its potentials, which should be further encouraged and developed, and where are all those shortcomings and problems that have long been plagued by various creators, especially the non-governmental sector and self-employed in culture. Given that Mr Peršak was aware at the hearing, of the requirements, plans and principles of the coalition contract, i.e. the already mentioned reform of the cultural model, new media legislation, issues relating to the Slovenian Film Centre, JAK, Slovenian Matrix, what is with professional publicity and criticism in public media and so on. And given that it is aware of these issues and the principles of the Coalition Treaty, I sincerely wish that it will be able to take all these issues into account, so that we can finally talk about the cultural sector as a resource that has a certain degree of prosperity, and that the debate that has already been heard from various sides today, so that the debate on cultural policy can finally move away from this status quo, from this zero, very narrow point called the annual distribution of the state budget, and the part that is so past, present or future ruling policy is intended for different cultural stakeholders, both institutions and self-employed in culture. I think this is what the Slovenian cultural landscape really deserves after 25 years of independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u21	Mr Matjaž German has the floor. Get ready, Magus. Branislav Rajić and Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My implementation is primarily in the direction of respect and support for Mr Persak. Not only as a coalition partner, but also as a Member, I wish in some way to find a way and, above all, encourage the resolution of cultural issues. In terms of personal experience, both in the field of culture and in the field of politics, I think Mr Peršak is the right person in the right place, or his work and his actions will be those that show that we are right or wrong. Nevertheless, there is a need for encouragement and, above all, support in certain circumstances, because culture is always between hot and cold, between love and hatred, between war and peace. But in our space, not only cultural, but bivanian, culture still has one special place that requires special care. My wish is for Mr Persak to find the right moderate path and, above all, energy that he can connect the two worlds both politically and culturally, because I believe that for each individual, that is precisely the great challenge. I come from a cultural family on my own, and I got into politics. I wish Mr Anton Persak the best in his implementation, his work, especially his great courage in dialogue with culture and with the culturer, Slovenian culture, and in order to find and establish himself in the place where he belongs and belongs. Thank you. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u23	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone! I must say that it is understandable that the opposition does not support the Prime Minister's choices. But anyone who loves the truth cannot remain silent on the statement that this is just another candidate who will drown in the paradigm of the Cerari government. Unlike all previous governments, there is absolutely no paradigm; it is much more effective; it is a living organism which, in two years of work, has extremely good results in all areas. So it has as much in common with the paradigm as the combined left and the combined right. Also, Mr Horvath, you have raised many questions in your position as a member of your group. Most of these questions would be answered if you or one of your own were to attend this hearing, so that you might have a more clean situation. But I will focus on what I was interested in during the presentation of my former colleague, and now future Minister Anton Persak. I was interested in the position to address the policy and the issue of protection of cultural heritage. We've had quite a few problems about this so far. I must say that Mr Peršak's candidate has provided extremely encouraging and good answers to this. I was wondering if he would be able to prepare a strategy for the management of cultural heritage in view of the lack of resources we have at this time and during this period, whether he would approach some Slovenian castles being fully restored to the final use in a relavitated function. And that answer was yes. I also wondered whether it would change this practice of not selling off castles or not renting them in the long term, which would allow for revitalisation and renewal, and then using them in one modern function and remaining to the craftsmen as a renewed and valuable cultural heritage. Not just pretty. And last but not least, what was particularly important to me is that many times we get from people inside Slovenia complaints that, if I say so, bureaucracy at the Ministry of Culture has had some kind of silent support so far that it slowly responds to the failure to provide answers and permission to intervene around cultural heritage facilities when it comes to events that people would like to have nearby, such as castles or other cultural heritage objects. Even in this case we received a positive response at this hearing. So I think that when it comes to dealing with cultural heritage, we have all the elements to say that the future minister is aware of the importance of this discipline and will be able to deal with it in the right way. It is equally important that he is aware of how the architectural profession today is in crisis in view of the construction crisis and that he thinks that the architectural profile, in particular architects, landscape architects, would be involved in the implementation of cultural policy and would not let them wait for employment or projects only in the operational area. I'm very respectful of the education that the candidate has, and I don't think a combination of theatre directorship and comparative literature can give a more sensitive person than this. So in this sense, I see his commitment as some kind of confidence-maker, and I believe he will fulfill this expectation. On this road and doing this, I wish him well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u25	Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for this opportunity. In order to strengthen the cultural parliamentary dialogue, I would like to recall the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. A respected colleague and friend of the Mags. Rajic somehow referred to my debate in his debate. There hasn't been a debate yet. As Member of Parliament, I, Mr Horvat, from seat 90, the last seat in this House, have not yet discussed, but I have presented the position of the Group of Members. Last time, the President, Mr Vice President, did the right thing by deceiving me when I made a similar mistake. That is why I expect you, Mr President, to do the same, and I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u27	Most likely, the criteria should be the same for everyone. Comrade Rajić, after he has spoken, you can turn to him in the same way. We'll take into account the same vats. And also some new practice that each new vice-president brings to the National Assembly. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u28	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Honourable President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about culture, and I am saying that this is also part of culture, whether we have sincere intentions today with this proposal for a Culture Minister or only those who occupy this city. Mr President of the Government and my colleague from the Desus Group, I'd like to tell you a few things. I'm also a member of the Committee on Culture. President of the government, it's not good that so many of your team have changed on not half their terms of office. I once compared you to a football selector, and the results would be very bad if, during the championship, the selector switched so many teams. What happened since I told you. Many of your ministers and ministers have been replaced, in one way or another, for such or other reasons. The fact is, it happens in every government. Of course, today, when we talk about the new cultural minister, there was something particularly interesting. As a member of the Committee on Culture, of course, I wondered why the Minister was leaving. You said, for the most part, I heard through the media that failure to comply with the decision was the reason. I went alone to check that in 2015, on day 31. On the 12th, more than 30 conclusions were unfulfilled by the ministers of your government. That's right. This applies in particular to the Minister of the Party to which you also preside. This minister had to leave because of this decision. But there was something else very interesting. I have not seen this in the history of Slovenian governments. When she explained about this speaker in the National Assembly, she said that she did not trust you. That was something special. It's our culture. Mr Tone Peršak, I see many candidates and candidates in this National Assembly who could present such a presentation or even better. That's a fact. Of course, it is something particularly important for culture, the Slovenian culture, from which quota this minister comes. We have heard that he has recently joined the party DeSUS, but this concerns me if membership was only to occupy this ministerial chair, whether it is a serious work in culture in the Republic of Slovenia. But let me also say, Mr President of the Government, because this candidate for a minister comes from the same party as the former minister, and I hope that I will be confirmed by those colleagues and colleagues from Desus who are sitting on our committee, as was the cooperation between the biggest party, and by someone else, with the previous minister. Many times the mockery, the teasing, many strange things have been there in these months. She has always been a minister on the Committee, and the former Secretary of State has always sat next to her. What am I trying to say, colleagues and colleagues? Mr Jurša, I have listened particularly carefully to you in your presentation of the position of the Group of Members. I hope that you have really serious intentions that this new candidate will not have a problem if he receives the support of the Minister, that he will be heard in this way in the Government and that he will be able to work successfully when he is on the Committee on Culture. If this is not the case, if the story repeats itself as it did with the previous minister, then these hours today and this talk, the President of the Government, are in vain. For the benefit of Slovenian culture, it is a prerequisite for you to agree in a coalition, what will be their future. The minister, who had to leave because of a decision she had not fulfilled, and there was a lot of smoke, had to leave because she probably resisted those who did not want Slovenian culture all the good, but probably wanted to draw tax money through Slovenian culture, she could have left. However, I fear that this story will be repeated in the future. I think it is very irresponsible that today we are not honest that you have proposed to Mr Tonet Persak only for this quota to be occupied, but it is not my will, in particular in the eyes of the Minister of Finance, to listen to the Minister or Minister in your quota, as regards the area of culture, so that culture can get what Slovenian culture deserves. I don't want to talk like that. I want to talk real. And that's a fact. Mr Peršak has always been a close associate of the former Minister, who has supported her. When your Members and Members made fun of her, he looked at the ground and today he takes over as Minister of Culture. I don't want to judge him because I don't know him enough, but I tell you that the intentions are not real, and this is not going in the right direction, and this is not going in the direction of Slovenian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u29	Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Prepare Mrs Anita Koleša and Marijana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u30	Your Honor, the President of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, everyone else is present! Culture is a safe area that has undoubtedly been neglected in the last decade or two. One of these areas that has been neglected. At the beginning of the term of office, this government was aware of this. A very ambitious programme of amendments, a coalition treaty on culture, which must now be implemented to the end, has been prepared. I am sure that we have also proposed to the party Desus this time a very good candidate for Minister, Mr Persak, who has been active for a number of years in the field of culture, also valued in cultural terms and has the necessary political experience. Above all, he has the character and he is a good and tolerant interlocutor, which will be useful in introducing cultural change. Culture is also an area that has probably not changed significantly since independence, has not adapted to circumstances, to new situations. During all these years, problems have accumulated that are not only of a financial nature but also of those present. I believe that Mr Peršak, too, is aware of this, that it will also be necessary to bite in the field of culture into a variety of sour apples, and to make some decisions that will probably not always be made and everywhere after the year. Above all, I am convinced that it is aware that only the additional resources, like if I can also mention the health care that is closer to me, only the additional money, of course, problems and problems that arise during these years, are not being solved. I see a similarity in the second part. Slovenian culture is also visible and appreciated, still, not only at home, but also abroad, even in the international space, and I am sure that at the work of Mr Peršak it will also be in the future. To find the right path for urgent movements in a systematic overhaul of the cultural model, which is undoubtedly necessary. Of course, I also wish him a successful job in this regard, in order to achieve all the objectives set within this Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u31	Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, distinguished President of the Government, Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I came to this house of democracy with great support from my friends, citizens and citizens, whose culture is not only the basis of Slovenian identity, the condition of freedom of expression and creation, the possibility of their own creative cultural or artistic creation, but also of a way of life. Of course, there are thousands of those who sing, dance, dance, paint, write, write, write, write today in hundreds and hundreds of societies. And I am proud of these cultural allies in politics, who often do not have any clear party-specific opinion about their party affiliation, but they want to finally possess the right content in the cultural field. In any case, we will want the true content that we sow today only in the near future or in the distant future. This is what I expected when I came to the National Assembly to see many things happen in the field of this culture. It's probably too little. And what I expected most to begin to move is, in the field of this cultural system, a cultural model, especially because there have been many things already done in this area in the past years, and cultural people are prepared to agree that these cultural debates should not focus solely on the distribution of the annual state budget. At Mr Persak's hearing, we have been assured that something will happen in this area and that the future minister accepts the continuation of dialogue between all these stakeholders in culture and wants to transfer it to the field of performance before the end of the mandate. Something similar has happened in the field of media landscape. Our coalition agreement is clear here: the advantage is to establish precisely the definition of public interest in information, which will be systematically supported, the priority is a comprehensive reform of media legislation, the media environment needs to be regulated through transparent ownership and the autonomy of journalists and editors. I have touched on two areas where, at the moment, a lively professional debate, a lively dialogue based on arguments, in which the Ministry would play an important role in coordinating and interplaying these different cultural thinking. Such expectations are, of course, realistic only if the Ministry is leading a person with a vision of contemporary understanding of culture and art, with knowledge of the establishment of mutual exchange of views, with broad cultural visibility and with respectful communication. Members of the SMC have also recognized the characteristics in a recognised writer, publicist, director and esteemed mayor. Maybe this one too. At the time of the presentation, Mr Peršak mentioned the extremely poor condition of the artists. This has also been done by Members in recent years, at a time when the country has had great concerns about how public companies or the state and state-owned companies buy expensive gifts to save terrible money and limit their purchases to EUR 20, which has affected an important part of the people who have lived through artistic creation. Until then, they lived, they live today. Mr Pershak said that this must be changed. I must say, I agree very much. It is true that it is a small step, that it is not a complex solution, but I think it is also very interesting and important to me. Perhaps Mr. Persak would be interested to know where he is listening to us when we finally bought some artistic work in this National Assembly. Eight years ago. I think we could be ashamed of ourselves in front of all the Slovenian artists. Mr. Pershak, don't take too much heart the position of our biggest opposition party. You know very well that culture is a very complex matter, perhaps too complex for everyone to understand. And also art is too beautiful for everyone to feel that I am not talking about the omens and culture of Cerarov and Persians. Mr. Pershak, I wish you good work. It is never difficult to cooperate with cultural people, and I am very excited about this cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u33	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the word to prepare the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u34	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Ministers, other members of the Government and ministries and honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present my own opinion on the appointment of a new cultural minister. I will use my words primarily to Mr Peršak. We have heard a lot about culture itself today, about the needs of culture, etc. I support all these discussions. With regard to Mr Persak, I would say that I am joining everyone who you are and will tell you today that Mr Anton Persak, a candidate for the Minister of Culture, is exactly the kind of person we want for culture or for the leadership of the Culture Ministry. I am sure that Mr Peršak will perform this function well, professionally and with all his knowledge. He has all the necessary powers to do so. He's a culturer in the real sense of the word. It also has extensive cultural experience. He acted as a writer, publicist, critic and theatre director. He was also a lecturer at the Academy of Theatre, Radio, Film and Television. For several years he also led the Slovenian Centre PEN and was president of the Association of Writers of Slovenia. Nor is political action foreign to Mr Persak, since the first President of the Democratic Party of Slovenia and in 1992 was elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In 1998, he became the first mayor of Trzin, and he served for many years. We can see that Mr Peršak has done his work in all areas where he has acted in a responsible and successful manner. I am therefore convinced that the Ministry of Culture will also be able to coordinate the political fabric and interests of the cultural sphere. In doing so, I wish him great happiness and success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u35	The word is "ma'am mag." Bojana Mursich. Prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Prime Minister, ministers with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Today we have a new candidate for Minister of Culture. Mr. Tone Pershak has a long political path. He was a mayor, a state councillor, an MP, a secretary of state, and he could still list it. He was unrelentingly involved in culture, which is also reflected in his personality. This is why, unlike some of his predecessors and predecessors, he was unlikely to have received harsh words from the professional and interested public. I believe that there will be open dialogue and constructive cooperation. It is particularly important to me that his positive opinion in the area of amateur culture is reflected mainly in the local environment and his attitude towards cultural heritage. His mandate will be relatively short, but I expect a lot from him at that time. The initial new cultural strategy and the introduction of the cultural euro, which is estimated to bring an additional €185 million in seven years. With these resources, we could do much more for our cultural heritage, which is failing for the most part. With these resources, we would save the most endangered cultural heritage. It all depends on the resources of the cultural budget. In recent years, while we have seen that funding for culture is declining from year to year. On the basis of the cultural resources invested, something can soon happen that the basic activities will no longer be feasible, and it is certainly important, as the candidate for the Minister of Culture has stressed, that he is aware of this. There will also be a need to find new, other legal frameworks for filled cultural cash registers. I hope he'll follow that. They expect a lot from the new Culture Minister also self-employed in culture, who not only want improvement but deserve it. Your Honor, Mr Peršak, you have my support for your candidacy and I wish you every success in achieving the objectives set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u37	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Prepare Violeta Tomić and Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministerial team, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I can't start with this – I don't know him, but I'll tell you everything about him. I've known Tone Persak for many years, we've also been the same year, so my debate on this title may be a little different. Although I said the main debate on the Committee on Culture, if I may say so, but today I would like to take two, three basic thoughts. First. Tone Peršak is a Slovenian educator, a culturer, as a whole person is also an athlete. He was engaged in the long run at a time when it seemed very strange. When we ran across Tivoli at the time, everyone thought we were wrong. But Tone Pershak was a man who didn't care, and he was just happy. And that's who we were if I can get in there in some way. Second. He is an outstanding acquaintance of his field, as he also proved at the presentation. We call it hearing. He answered questions very clearly, perhaps for a little while because he knew the problem. But even when he did not know the exact answer, he said his way of thinking and how he would determine when a problem would arise. This was based on profoundly defined philosophical considerations. What I think is very important to me from this debate at a hearing or a presentation is to precisely distinguish what it means to be a secretary of state, what it means to be a minister in government, what the power of government is and what the division of power between government and legislative authority is, that is, a national assembly. These relations are quite clear to Mr Tonet Persak. As far as the political definition is concerned, the man who is neither left nor right is a extremist is, in essence, a Democrat and, in essence, a great hero. At the turn of the century, he knew exactly where his place was. And speaking of his political profile, I wouldn't start with him being mayor. In the political profile he was in the right place when he was a member of Demos. And he was one of the co-authors of the famous writing constitution that was the basis for the constitution that we have today. So he was always in the right place, and he knew how to stand up for his opinion. Of course, this is part of the narrowest circle of invaders, as we call it. It is interesting when some who feel that they are defending some military aspects of independence, the question of if this is true, but they are attacking Toneto Persak, who is the lone speaker in the purest sense of the word. But in a civilian area that sometimes seems very important to me. Reminds me of when they were fighting about what was worth more decades ago, whether you were an SUV or you were a fighter in the brigade. At the time, we had similar discussions and the grounders were long behind. This is also where some relationship with Tonet Persak appears through this aspect, if I may say so. However, as regards some specific questions about his participation, the question raised at the hearing and when a colleague says he does not know the coalition contract. Do you know what that looked like? Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, as you remember, you said, "What do you think of the 8th number of the coalition contract?" And Mr. Pershak said, "Which one is that?" "Yes, number 8 but." Well, after she said what she was thinking, Mr Tone Peršak said exactly what he thought about the specific number of the coalition contract or the problem that was for the 8th number. The question also raised today regarding Mr Persak's role in excluding Mr Janez Janša from the Association of Slovenian Writers. It's like I know things, but, of course, it's easier to talk, and no one at the hearing asked him because he was there, and he could tell the truth about what he was thinking or how he was doing. There were some who had been silently silent, but today they are referring the question to us who were not with us. But I thought it was something like that. Mr Marjan Strojan as President of the Association of Slovenian Writers was absent and Mr Tone Peršak chaired the meeting as Vice-President at the time. The 16 members of the company demanded the exclusion of Mr Janez Janša, and the Honorary Court ruled on this. The honorable judgment of Dr. Franc Bučar has decided to exclude Mr. Janez Janša. The Management Board concluded and decided to exclude Mr Janez Janša. In this definition, however, it was quite clear that Mr Janez Janša could complain to the general assembly of the Association of Slovenian Writers, because the fact is that this is not an administrative body and you refer or complain to an administrative body, but you complain to a social body, the highest body of society – who works in society knows this – is a general assembly. This was not done by Mr Janez Janša and was thus excluded for society. That's all I know about this matter. At the hearing, perhaps Mr. Tone Peršak could say more. I want a fellow runner, a future minister, to do a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u39	Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, I stress that the Vice-President of the National Assembly has dealt with me at a time when I cannot defend myself because this has been said in the position. He was also a tough liar, but I'll say it when I'm next. Therefore, I ask the President to at least warn your narrow team that they do somehow comply with certain criteria, but not least with their performances, that they do not attack when someone is unable to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u41	It's all the same rules, I can answer that. You said yours, and then you'll tell yours. Well, then you can do it with each other, but I really wish it wasn't. Mr. Primož Hainz, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u42	Mr President, I would, however, ask you to ask your colleague, in the light of the allegations, to tell her what was bothering her, because this is the procedure. He says I lied, and it's a very awkward thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u43	Yeah, I understand what you're saying. On the one hand, it is purely procedural and on the other hand, it is substantive. What was really wrong was that I didn't listen so carefully that I could see every moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u44	In particular, his statement was about my question at the hearing and the candidate's replies. What he said isn't only half-truth, it's untruth. And I'll tell you exactly what I was doing. I don't have another dementia problem. Thank God.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u45	She'll tell you later. I think we can leave it at that, too. The text is by Violeta Tomić, to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič and Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honorable Prime Minister, ministerial team! I'll say I know Tone Pershak, too. I've known him since I was 18, when I made admissions to AGRTF and started studying. I was lucky that I was right in the year that Tone Peršak led from 1st to 4th year as an assistant. Our cooperation was correct, very warm and I must also say that in this year we had quite a few eminent people who are today, for example, Barbara Hieng Samobor, who is the director of the City Theatre, Ljubljana, then the Istok Mlakar, which you do not particularly need to represent, Brane Šturbej, who is also a recognised artist, also president of the Association of Dramatic Artists, and so on. Tone Peršak was always receptive and, above all, we later came to know him as a pretty smart policy. We know he was very involved in the 1980s. And at the hearing he also highlighted how important culture and culture were and played an important role in the period of independence. Unfortunately, and he said so himself, culture has lost little of its political legacy since its independence. I would also like to highlight the Week of Lover Culture and congratulate all lovers this week, because a loving culture has a very important role in bringing people together, especially at times when individualism is a time when each one is alone somewhere, it is the culture that unites people, especially in the countryside. And another positive function of a lover's culture is that it produces art. Later, many people decide to dedicate their lives to this. And then there's high art. That's what we got. This would have led to a reduction in the cultural budget of 60 million in six years. And we wonder why the situation in culture is not worse. I'll tell you why it's not worse. Because it was at the expense of the standard of employees in culture. Lover culture is important, but these people have some jobs, culturers, and artists have been trained to do this job, and they have no other job. And the fact that one third of self-employed people live below the poverty line is a disgrace, a shame to cultural politics, and a shame to the state. In the last month, we had two deaths of very important colleagues of culture, artists who were my age. We say they were killed by constant cultural stress. It means, eternal fear, whether they will carry out their projects or not, never go to the hospital, never be absent, never, because the show must go him, never commit himself, but always put the show first. Then, of course, the person gives his heart sooner or later. This was also touched by Tone Peršak at the hearing when he said we were chronically late for invitations. The fact is, we're chronically late for calls, and that could be fixed real quick. The bureaucratic apparatus should be organised in such a way that artists do not wait until they have already provided, say, for cooperation or for co-production with some foreigners, but shake whether they will receive money from our Ministry of Culture or not. In short, when contracts are concluded with subcontractors, they should be safe enough to know how they will proceed. The forced espection of self-employed is also a painful wound. Precautions and exploitation of institutions of people who are self-employed. Self-employed – the status was sometimes a choice, forced today, forced those who end colleges in job shortages and then, above all, remain self-employed in theatre art. Self-employed at twenty-three, when they don't even have the chance to create a biography so that they can work with the big directors of the big show. But big shows cost money, high art costs money. The state must decide whether or not to do great things. One opera, we know it stops. And there's no question as to whether or not it can be saved. So it happened to the world-renowned director of Pandur that he was expelled from Maribor because he supposedly spent too much. But if you have a big dream and you're doing big shows that are universally recognized, you can't do that on a loving level. The fans are actors and many who participate in the performances. Lover's because they're not even paid worthy of what they do professionally. And hence the social distress of many employees in the so-called culture. But the costume has to be paid if you want to see something on stage, you have to set up the set, even though the human force is almost free. And this will have to be resisted in some way and with the gradual increase in the budget for culture and the cultural euro mentioned above – it would also be wise to consider tax concessions for sponsorship, there is no sponsorship, no one is encouraged to sponsor it. In short, there is a huge task ahead of the new minister, and I sincerely hope that he will succeed in this short term, as set out, as well. Young people are in the most difficult situation. Young perspectives are in a position to be employed by institutions in half or even in quarters. Which means that for a few hundred euros they're available for a month, for raids, for night work, all day long, and many land exhausted in hospitals. It's a slave in which educated artists have fallen. I wouldn't say culture, culture is a very broad concept, culture also covers the level of debate that we sometimes have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u47	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bačič and Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u48	Respectable to both Presidents, the Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Allow me to address Mr. Persak personally. Dear Mr. Pershak! Your résumé is very rich, so I think you are and will be in the right place. I have already wished you on the committee a great deal of perseverance and patience in solving countless problems that have plagued our culture for many years, but without it there is no nation. You are particularly respected among the culturers, so I believe that synergies for development and progress in culture will be even greater. You know how to listen, hear, and respond very well, so our expectations are high. You have my support and I wish you a successful job.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u49	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor to prepare Mr Franc Jurša and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In my position, I have already said how many diverse areas Mr Peršak has done his job and has been successful everywhere. Not only in the cultural field, he was also successful as mayor, even one of the most successful mayors. I am so sure that the tasks ahead of him will also succeed. I must say that at the time of Mr Peršak's State Secretary, we have worked very well with him. I sensed his qualities, such as calmness, modesty, and correctness. These aren't just my observations. Journalist Ali Jerdin also attributed him a talent for rational dialogue in the Saturday annex of Dela. All of these are qualities that Mr Peršak will still need in his work, as he will often have to decide among the conflicting expectations of the public. Dialogue, public hearing will also be a safeguard against reckless and premature interventions into culture. I would like Mr Anton Peršak to be aware of his political experience and involvement in the cultural field in favour of the area he will lead. I believe that he will prove to be a good minister who will know between different interests in culture to defend the voice of the public. That is why I will gladly support him and wish him a successful job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u51	Mr Franc Jurša has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and then the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, President. Since the Members and Members of our Group have spoken quite encouraging words on the path of the ministry to the future Minister of Culture, I would not like to repeat all these encouraging words. I would also not like to repeat the position of the Group of Members, which I presented at the beginning of this meeting. But perhaps Mr Persak would like to say some other things that may not have been presented in this Chamber so far, and of course they are public. Mr Peršak comes from places that lie on the sound of beneficial influences on the development of human resources. Why did I say that? Because I want to say where Mr Peršak is coming from. Mr Peršak did not have favourable living conditions in his youth. A hard, Slovenian country gave bread to his mother as well as to him. Even then, Mr Anton Peršak knew that such a work would not give him a decent life. That is why he also decided on a path by which I find that we are very pleased today, because our party has proposed a man who knows a culture that is a culturer of the soul and body. Of course, it is not just a culturer, and we have said that politics has political experience, which will certainly serve him in his further work. It is very important that a person who is tolerant is ready for dialogue can listen, and more importantly, he can hear and then he can adopt a conclusion that will benefit culture and all cultures and people as a whole in the field of culture. Why did I tell you it was on good human resources? Mainly because I would like to point out that Anton Korošec, a right-wing politician, is one of the most famous Slovenian politicians between the two world wars. Edward Kocbek, Dr. Karol Grossman, lives in the immediate vicinity of many large names, names with large beginnings – from Miklosic, Osterec, Golar, Trstenjak and so on. I also want to say that very important things happened here 148 years ago. It was the first Slovenian camp where we Slovenians expressed what we have today. Back then, we talked about what they wanted to say and what their conversational language was like. This has already greatly affected his personality to become a culturer, candidate and future minister of culture. We mentioned him as the mayor. Yes, it must be said that the mayor was four. We must say that according to economic indicators, this municipality was the most successful municipality in the field of economy in Slovenia, and that this man, who is a candidate for Minister of Culture, would be appointed at least ten times as the most successful mayor if they were assessed in Slovenia at that time. This means that we have proposed a good name, but we have not proposed that name in order to complete a quota. The government must have ministers. Not long ago, if we recall, we had more state secretaries in the government than ministers. We can't forget that. Therefore, we must not discuss today that we are only perfecting a quota. If we were to complete the quota, then the Desus party would not be involved in this matter. We're filling out a city that belongs to us under a coalition contract. Mr. Peršak has really stepped into the client's office recently. For the first time, he may have been invited to join a client. But his essence is important, it is important inside him, or he advocates the social note that our client advocates. We're very close here, or we're the same. We are therefore pleased that we have been able to propose such a candidate. And I will personally support him with a single vote, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u53	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well, now my performance probably won't be like some performances of predecessors who somehow acted like some kind of celebration when we thank someone for the work we've done so far. Allow me, however, to start where things are still not cleared up — why is this change actually? Why did this exchange happen? I have here a document of the Ministry of Culture published on the government's website, the achievements of the Ministry of Culture, which were published at the end of the year or when the President of the Government was doing this famous evaluation year and a half. This one's written on just a few pages. The Ministry's achievements are written on a nice pile of paper. This was when the Prime Minister considered that there was no need for exchanges. In his letter informing the National Assembly that it was necessary a few days after this, the Minister of Culture immediately exchanged the following: the fact that nothing had actually happened in the field of the Ministry of Culture. Even the following sentence is found inside: "There were only a few amendments to the law, where only minor amendments to the existing legislation were made." This is supposed to be the work of the Minister of Culture until yesterday and her right hand, the Secretary of State. But today it's gonna be different. But the measure will be complete, and I have here a document of the introduction to the so-called report on the evaluation of the work of ministers. During the first year of its mandate, the government has also adopted a number of systemic measures in other areas and has highlighted culture among them. President of the Government, it would be good if you were at least credible in your records, because they are found very quickly. On the one hand, nothing happened at the Ministry, it was just some minor corrections, and on the other hand, on your websites we find your signatures under documents, where you say that this ministry even took systemic measures. All that I said confirms once again that the key – the minister did not go because of her work, the minister left because she did not want to do something that she considered illegal and that was contrary to the act and also to the legal opinion. You know, we should talk about this. We will sing the praises to Mr Persak when the term of office is over and when the results are on the table. Today some of you have said a great deal about culture, what is necessary and what will be done, but I warn you, we are halfway through the mandate. We are not today before the first hearing or the first presentation of the candidate and the beginning of the mandate. Half the term is already behind us. And in this half of the term, almost, I agree, is a little bit longer, but we never know how long it will take, in fact, it is important that Mr Peršak was on his right hand all this time and that a lot of this could have been realized. It wasn't. So that his presentation also showed that there will be no significant changes in culture or culture policy. He also talked about projects already under way and, in my opinion, started – some are already running, some will be the end of the mandate, some only after a few years in fact and are linked to European funds – and provided by the former Minister. So, some things are going to go as well as they have been. But it still remains open why the minister had to leave. Let me also remind you of the record of the Association of Slovenian Writers. On 22 September 2015, they provided support to the then National Council for Culture, which called on the President of the Government to resolve the then Minister. The Association of Slovenian Writers joined this initiative or the then National Council for Culture. Among other things, they say that there is sufficient financial undernutrition in the Ministry, that there is a need to stop crop cuts and that culture needs to be taken seriously and that action is expected from the President of the Government. In some ways, they also call on Minister Marble, for they know exactly who has the financial scissors and the canvas in his hands. But, you know, the Association of Slovenian Writers also talks about the unacceptable policy of the then minister and ministry and that things go down. The then National Council for Culture also supported about 2 000 500 cultural people with signatures. Nothing happened. The National Council for Culture has retreated, and the culturers have quieted down. Interesting. A few years ago, however, they had significantly more resources for culture, all together, not just culturers, the country as a whole, protested only because they were associating with another ministry and more resources were available. But let's just leave it. The fact is, nothing happened. The minister then, of course, said that he would not give up on this blackmail. Two months later, in fact, in his address, he sums up everything that was previously pointed out and denies everything that was written a few days earlier on the website. It's an incredible act for me. Don't make any mistake. I'm not talking, and I'm not protecting the former minister. Maybe someone else should do that. I'm not talking about Tonet Persak right now either. I'm talking about the problem we're facing in this country. When it comes to elites, when it comes to networks – pok! Your bags are packed, and you're gone. That's the problem. And for a hint, the Association of Slovenian Writers, which then warned that there was something at the Ministry and where Mr. Tone Peršak was a member of this society. Why didn't he step down right away? Now I don't know if it's from this company or as a secretary. In a double role. You're a bit of a schmuck, you're a little cooperative. Is that right? For, on the other hand, Mr Peršak is able to account very well when he is fit. As was said earlier in Penn. Otherwise, I'll leave it alone, but by the way, Mr. Hainz, you can excuse his actions, but the consequences are known. If the name Boris Pahor doesn't mean much to you, if the name Drago Jančar doesn't mean much to you, if he doesn't tell you the name Tone Kuntner, who has a lot of patriotic, cultural roles for this country, then that's really your business. But the fact remains, and this is that we find Mrs Svetlana Makarovič in Pen, for example, and some others no longer. But now I have to answer some of the controversy or even my concerns about my debate. The first is that my questions at the so-called hearing session were almost inappropriate. It won't hold. My questions were very specific and applied exclusively to culture. And my first or one of those questions that I have to answer now or to say this, I am answering Mr Hainz with regard to his implementation of the possibilities Mr Peršak had, to say the following. Hearing was held in the morning and afternoon or morning and evening. In this morning's work, I asked him what he thought about the ten measures that were written as some of the commitments of this coalition, where we really are. In doing so, I did point out one of the measures. I was sure that someone who was running for ministerial office knew ten measures for the area that he was supposed to be carrying out and he had been doing it for two years. And that's when I didn't cut. I didn't get a concrete answer, I asked about digitisation, and I also said what action it was, but then I didn't get a lot of answers about it. It is true, however, that Mr Peršak then took a little look at the matter and, in the evening hours, somewhat complemented his answer and stressed the importance of this question of mine. So I think I was more than right. Some of you have also mentioned that Mr Peršak has a number of political experience. I don't even care about that. It doesn't bother me. Some will say that they have a number of political experiences, some will say that they like to sit from one party to another when they need to. Earlier it was said, Mr Peršak was on the right side, Mr Hainz said, on the right side when he was in Demus. And since Mr Hainz said that, I hope he understands what I'm about to say. He was on the right side or sent from the right side. And then he was in another party, and today he's back in another. But look, this is his personal decision. It's his personal decision and I leave it to him. True, he had great political ambitions. He was also a candidate for the president of the country. I don't know, maybe that's when you gave him your vote. Earlier, it was also said in one of the implementations, I think by colleague Kolesh, that the National Assembly should, however, pay more attention to culture and that some artistic painting should also be purchased. I must tell the Secretariat in particular in support of the Service of the National Assembly that it makes a huge contribution to culture. If you are walking both in the premises of the State Council and in the lobby we have many different exhibitions, many authors present themselves and each of us has the opportunity to buy some artistic work. We don't have to impose responsibility for buying on others. Let's take this step ourselves. Finally, I must also say that by my own participation in the job, for which I am very grateful, I have allowed one of the artists to have an exhibition in the lobby of the State Council where he presented his work. Last but not least, Prešeren's rewarder was in the past, and I think it's important. Some of you smile at this, but I'm just answering the subject. These themes were, and it's right to know what we're talking about and to build a mirror, when we last bought a book, when we finally bought an art job, and when we went to the theater. I have to say that I did the first and the second, and the third, not because of the time limit. Well, I'm sorry. There's a lot of things I'd like to see. It has also been said that they want or want more cultural dialogue, which is lacking in this national assembly. Many times that is true, but interesting, not even my own parliamentary group, but I will start like this, culture begins with a good day, goodbye, thank you, please. [[…]] That's how they started teaching us. And now even Mrs Juliani Bizjak Mlakar's own delegation has not thanked herself here in this national assembly for the work done. I'm talking about today. I think that this is also part of culture, because, last but not least, this exchange is still connected to it and will somehow sit in this national assembly. It has been said that it is very important what cultural level we have in our debates. I absolutely agree with that. I think we're going to be little people and we're going to be basically all these little people when we talk one thing and we're going to be doing the other. It can't be moved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Good day to you, too, on my behalf. Replica, Mr. Primož Hainz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I've been named a few times, or I don't know if I have that kind of credit, but I do. First. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert announced the question about the points of the coalition contract, where she did not perform so much that she said only a number. That's exactly what I said she asked for under this number. But the truth is, I broke it and I'm sorry, it wasn't number eight, it was number six. Second. I have to say it's true that I made a mistake and I apologize for talking about the Association of Slovenian Writers, but it was about Pen. Sorry, this is the Slovenian centre of Pen, the association of writers, poets and publicists. But it is also a society that operates according to its own rules of the game and is not directly linked to the country in this sense of complaints, decisions. There were no corrections at this point. But as for the liberators, I have to say, I think this is the right side, but I could explain it more precisely every time, but I don't feel the need, because I thought that some of us at least understood what the right side was at that point, because some of us were trying to get rid of it. As a socialist myself, when we proposed plebiscite, I am still proud today of the fact that Demos was a little grumpy about whether people will or will not be people for it. In short, I think I got it right that I've defined this right side quite well. About Mr Persak's mission, and I wouldn't lose words about it, because she was, I think, extremely insulting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you, too. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the Government's representative, Dr. Miro Cerar, gets the floor. He doesn't want a word. We're moving on. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Before applying, I would like to point out that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If he would also like to discuss the representative of the Government of Dr. Miro Cerar, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater shall have five minutes. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I apologize, Mr President, but this time is essentially intended for some of the answers that I had not been able to give before. Mr Hainz spoke about where the socialists were and where Demos was. Let me remind him of Dr. Jožet Pučnik's statement, unfortunately, already dead: "Yugoslavia is gone, now it is Slovenia." It saddens me that some heads are still different. As far as the presentation of the candidate for minister is concerned, you can now speak in any way, the fact is that someone who was almost a year and a half State Secretary, who was on the right hand and today as a candidate for minister, should know ten commitments. And I asked clearly what he thought was important or what needed to be realized because I was actually interested in what had been done so far. Also because of what I said earlier, I do not believe that the Minister was replaced by a misdemeanor and a failure to implement the conclusions. And I stress, more and more, but today I am absolutely convinced that the Minister has been replaced only because she has pointed out the economic links, the problem of action and the desire of some to drain public money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u59	Dr. László Göncz, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We have now applied on time, mainly because some of the communication noises have resulted in our application for position and debate. So much for information, in a business sense. As regards the content of today's agenda item, let me say that Mr Tone Peršak, the proposed candidate for Culture Minister, made a good impression on me at the presentation at the meeting of my mother's working body. With a very broad knowledge of all or most of the cultural elements as such, he also pointed out, from the perspective and strategic issues of this important area, dimensions which certainly justify the proposal to become a cultural minister after this vote. I must also point out that Mr Persak's work so far, which I know more or less, especially in the literary field and also in the field of the organisation of literary activities and cultural activities, is such as to predispose him to this function. He mentioned several important areas. I'll only point out two. First, he highlighted the importance of upgrading systemic solutions in the area of cultural heritage, which I think is very important. He also highlighted the media landscape, where much needs to be done. I could also add a cultural euro, which today has been a lot of talk, so I wouldn't delay it. In the second part of my debate, however, I would like to point out in particular those two aspects, which are also of exceptional importance from the point of view of the national communities and require a special sense by the Ministry of Culture or the Minister of Culture. It is the stable functioning of the cultural institutions of the national communities. In the near past, there has been a dramatic decline in funds in this area, not for the time of this government, but for a previous period, and unfortunately this decrease has led to a number of major setbacks in the cultural activities of the Hungarian national community. We want such interventions not to occur in the field, and we are counting on the understanding and support of the Ministry of Culture. And the other thing that I would specifically point out is the area of the cultural heritage of the national community. It is no coincidence that we are in the process of establishing a coalition agreement, although we are neither directly co-forming nor signatories to this treaty, but we have highlighted in particular our discussions with the then candidate for Prime Minister to record the importance of regulating this area from the point of view of the national communities. I believe that now is an opportunity, although the mandate is already up to half, but there is still enough time to devote, within the framework of this announced upgrade of the cultural heritage programme or the resolution of cultural heritage, to the appropriate importance and time-consuming to the question from the point of view of indigenous national communities. On my part, Mr Persak's support has been provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u61	However, as the last speaker before the vote, Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice-President, the distinguished Prime Minister with his colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Peršak is a member of the team with which, after some initial misunderstandings, which were immediately forgotten, we have established an open dialogue and fruitful cooperation based on the European and UNESCO approach to cultural issues, which also concern national communities and their identity, which consists of the language of cultural tradition and heritage and such a rich cultural landscape of Slovenia. This is also evidenced by the truly rich cultural activity of national communities in places where we live historically. The activity, which, despite what we have heard, represents a very strong feature within the cultural activities of our places and cities. These activities are an indispensable element of local cultural development and are visited throughout the population. It is my opinion that these cultural activities reflect the best possible exploitation or the best possible use of these resources for our culture. This dialogue I have been talking about is necessary and valuable because it is necessary to know that the unenviable situation, including the demographic situation in which we are located as an Italian national community, is a result of the historical facts, practices and policies which our Constitution prohibits. Part of this arsenal, which was used against us, against this language and culture despite formal protection, was also part of the so-called "damnatio memorialae", meaning that this population had to be cut off from itself. There is still a lot to be done to make this situation better. People who deal with culture are also aware of this problem. Some of these people are also at the Ministry of Culture and I hope that we will be successful in this work and that we will realize what makes sense to European values, especially in the field of culture and cultural diversity, which is a cement of European integration and Europe's ability to avoid the dangers that have plagued us throughout the 20th century.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Battelli. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: Anton Peršak is appointed Minister of Culture. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 12. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 12.]] I'm guessing Anton Peršak is appointed Minister of Culture. I congratulate the Minister on his appointment and wish him a successful discharge of his duties. / applause/ I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u64	I swear to uphold the constitutional order, to follow my conscience and to work with my strength for the welfare of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u65	Mr. Secretary, would you like to address the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u66	Dear Members and Members, honourable Mr President, distinguished Mr President of the Government, Ministers, Secretary of State! This event and all the words spoken here today are, of course, very binding. I thank you for the trust expressed in many debates. I know that this trust is also, I will not say the burden, but the commitment to work at the Ministry with all the energy that has already been presented and also in the coalition contract to the tasks that I would not now be able to list. I know them. I hope and expect us to be fruitful in this regard. All those who have given your voice today with confidence, as well as those who have been critical, have expressed your interest in the welfare of Slovenian culture. Thank you again. I thank Mr President of the Government for proposing me. I also thank Mrs Bizjak Mlakar, who invited me to the Ministry as a co-worker a year and a half ago. Thank you very much for the votes cast and in anticipation of your continued cooperation all for the good of Slovenian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you, Minister, and we wish you well. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues, colleagues, we're moving on with our work. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Slovenian State Holding Act. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of four Members, with the first signed mag. Alenko Bratusek. With regard to this bill, the group of 15 Members and Members, with the first-signed Dr Bojan Dobovski, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposal for the Magi Act. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, nice greeting! The Slovenian state holding company was set up in 2012 with one key purpose, namely transparent and more efficient management of state property, as this would give citizens more of it. This was the main objective of the establishment of the Slovenian State Holding. Initially, the law stipulated that the entire state property was simply transferred to SDH property, which was unacceptable for us, so we changed the law and prevented the privatisation of Slovenian property in one stroke. Today, SDH manages and owns state property. Being owner or having something in management is an essential difference. I stress this because one of the proposed amendments to the law before you relates precisely to the fact that SDH must, at the request of the National Assembly or the competent working body, provide information on its business. The reason we are proposing this change is in the arrogant attitude of the Slovenian State Holding to the National Assembly. They're avoiding data transmission. At the request of Members, certain documents shall be deemed not to be a public undertaking. They are not a public undertaking, but according to our assessment, it is their duty to operate transparently and to report all this to the National Assembly or to the competent authority or Members. Why they're acting like this, I don't know, they're obviously trying to hide something. I'm not surprised about all the human resources affairs. However, the National Assembly is the body that appointed SDH supervisors, so it must have the right to verify their operation. Transparency should come first. Is that right? The second proposed amendment concerns the discharge of the members of the Supervisory Board. The existing law provides that it is only the Government that can propose the dismissal of members of the Supervisory Board. Given that the National Assembly is the one who appoints supervisors, it is likely that it has the right to propose their replacement. The conditions for replacing our proposal are not changing at all. The third proposed amendment concerns the sale of Slovenian property. In the last year, you have practically sold everything you sold to the financial funds and, if possible, to the financial oasis. There was a lot of talk about the so-called Panamanian affair of how the government will fight the Slovenians who invested their money in the tax havens. That's right. Each of us should contribute to our country as set out in the rules. Those who violate them must be held responsible or punished. However, I find it difficult to believe in such words that virtually everything you have sold has been sold into tax havens, on the grounds that it is tax optimisation for customers. If they can tax-optimisation, the right environment brings its country, then you must also allow it to our people. Or vice versa — if not us, neither on our property can and cannot others. And perhaps even more importantly, the change we are proposing is that the new owner of the company must pursue at least the same objectives as those set out in the strategy for this company. It's our common assets. I hope that we have common goals for this property to be managed transparently, fairly and as best as possible. If that is the case with you, I expect your support today that the law will be able to continue the legislative process. In particular, Coalition Desus and SD could show that they want our assets to be managed in a transparent, fair and as good as possible. If one of the biggest government clients is talking and the other is working.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u69	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Method Dragonji, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u70	Dear Members and Members, Mr Vice-President! With the adoption of the Slovenian State Holding Act, a system of corporate governance of SDH and state property was established in Slovenia, in line with the OECD guidelines. The first principle of these guidelines is that a clear distinction must be drawn between the ownership function of the State and other state functions or the separation of policy from the management of state-owned companies. In doing so, the OECD Guidelines make it clear that the State must not interfere in operational matters and must respect the independence of the Supervisory Board. However, the situation for state-owned companies to gain too much autonomy is avoided by a clear ownership policy whose basic objectives are defined in the strategy and in other management acts. All these and other OECD principles and the recommendation of the European Commission have been finalized by the Republic of Slovenia under the SDH Act in 2015 by the appointment of the SDH Supervisory Board and the adoption of a capital investment management strategy. As a result, compliance with all the OECD post-accession recommendations has been confirmed. Slovenia fully accepted the OECD certificate in September 2015 that we are in line with the corporate governance guidelines of state-owned enterprises. This is also confirmed by the implementation of the recommendations of the European Commission, which, this week, formally proposed that Slovenia be excluded from the excessive financial deficit procedure after seven years and restored to the financial state. We can estimate that this is good news for international financial markets, which have already recognised Slovenia's great efforts, which can now be indebted at 1.5% interest rate, as opposed to the period in 2013, when interest on government bonds exceeded 6%. Further recommendations from the European Commission are linked to the consistent fulfilment of the corporate governance framework of state-owned enterprises, SDH and bad banks. In the context of the proposal to amend the SDH Act, particular attention should be paid to the European Commission's latest report on Slovenia of February 2016, in which the European Commission, inter alia, stated: "It is crucial that SDH works independently of political pressure." However, solutions to the proposal for amendments and additions to the SDH Act proposed by the proposer go in the opposite direction of the Government. All the powers vested in the SDH Supervisory Board shall be transferred to the National Assembly. There is a desire to formalise constant political pressure on SDH members and on SDH administration. In addition, we stress that SDH supervisors are people from the economy and do not belong to political and media exposed persons. The key is also that state-owned buyers want to commit themselves to the objectives of the Capital Investment Management Strategy and want to impose restrictions that are not consistent with real developments in global capital markets. Such proposals would, according to the Government's assessment, break down the fundamental principles of corporate governance and the above-mentioned achievements of Slovenia and reopen the door to the politicalisation of the management of the country's capital investments, which could result in non-professional and ineffective management of state-owned companies and consequently have a negative impact on public finances. Let me finish. The proposed amendment to the law is, according to the Government's assessment, bad news about the management of the Slovenian state holding company, interfering with its independence and eliminating the separation of SDH from politics, so the government opposes further consideration of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u71	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Members' Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Tillen Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u72	President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! There have certainly been many words about the Slovenian State Holding in this house. In management or ownership, it has the bulk of the assets that we consider to be common assets of all citizens and citizens in the SMC Group. Let me point out, in the SMC Group, that the concern and particular attention of many stakeholders, from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the media, citizens and citizens, and, last but not least, of us Members, that this huge asset is managed in a prudent and transparent manner, in accordance with the legislation that has introduced modern corporate governance standards and in accordance with the State Property Management Strategy, which we have finally adopted in this Assembly for more than two decades, we consider to be legitimate and justified. In our domain, however, it is particularly important to consider whether this area can be better regulated. Three amendments are envisaged in the proposal. The first consists of two parts, one which highlights the importance of the fact that when the investment is sold, the ownership of the buyer must be known and verifiable, while the second part relates to specific requirements for the sale of shares of important or strategic companies, that the new owner must pursue at least the same objectives as those set out in the asset management strategy and the annual investment management plan. The transparency of the buyer's ownership has already been repeatedly exposed to specific cases of sales of state property both in the media and in this house. This issue is shown to be important from a number of perspectives, and there is no question of who is the buyer or who is behind the buyers, since both the performance of the sales process and the sales price achieved and the future consistency in respect of any additional commitments and the further development or development of the company. The Slovenian State Holding is already obliged to conduct these procedures transparently in a manner that ensures traceability or subsequent verification of procedures and decisions. In our view, the detailed examination of the buyer’s ownership profile with which the transaction is concluded also includes, without a doubt, the final or eligible owner’s data. This is not to be overlooked by the fact that we are living in time and in relation to the free movement of capital. On the one hand, on the other hand, we are exposed to a number of more or less internationally-established corporate acquisitions practices, which, depending on the customer's purpose and objectives, are geared to individual acquisitions with the aim of providing an offer that will be as likely as possible for the seller of the sales process, i.e. SDH. The terms are therefore determined by the seller, but each condition also has its own price. Nevertheless, in the SMC Group, we believe that the practice of taking over companies offers sufficient solutions to structure acquisitions that ensure the transparency of ownership and that the requirements for disclosure of beneficial owners should not have a significant impact on the achievement of the objectives set by SDH in the sale of individual companies or their shares. The traceability or determination of actual ownership, according to our Group, is a prerequisite when we are talking about sales of property owned by countries. The second part of the first solution offered is written in a way that can be contradictory to itself, since achieving at least the same objectives can, in economic terms as well as other aspects, mean even achieving the diametrically opposite objectives, since, for example, pursuing the objective of a 10% return on capital may, at the same time, at least constitute a requirement of 20 % or more yield, leading to a significantly different attitude towards taking risks and determining the path by which the objectives will be achieved. It is also worth noting that the compatibility of the objectives, the suitability of the buyer or any additional conditions to be imposed on the buyer is already possible, identifiable and feasible when it comes to deciding whether a particular company or share of the sale is to be sold, while we advocate in the SMC Group that the assessment of any additional conditions should be carried out for each individual case of sales planning. In our view, a generic approach to both different companies, the scope and the importance of assets is not appropriate, as in finding the best solution and thus the best result for the country should be sought in view of the facts and circumstances associated with the sale of a given share. The second solution proposed by the proposer concerns the powers which the National Assembly would like to grant in connection with the discharge of SDH members. The current legal decree stipulates that the National Assembly appoints or disposes of members of the SDH Supervisory Board at the request of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The latter, in accordance with the law, is considered to be a congregation of SDH. In terms of established relations, we in the SMC Group feel that the Government has all the necessary resources and leverage for a competent identification and assessment of the possible preparation of a proposal for the resolution of SDH members. The criteria on the basis of which such an assessment is carried out are clearly set out in Article 44 of the current law. With such a regulated relationship between SDH and the Supervisory Council, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly shall ensure an appropriate balance and thus the stability of SDH's operations, which is crucial to achieving the objectives that we are charged with through the State Investment Management Strategy in the National Assembly. Finally, in terms of corporate governance, a clear definition of competence and responsibility is important. The government is responsible in this regard. Sharing this among several stakeholders reduces the weight of the related decisions. The third package, submitted by the applicant, should be illuminated with the appropriateness and capacity of the National Assembly in order to enable additional powers to exercise control over the functioning of SDH in a way that would lead to better governance of state assets. In view of the fact that the National Assembly was entrusted with the function of legislative authority, it is already conceptually a matter of sense that the National Assembly assumes the functions of another branch of authority, which has even a Directorate established to that end. It shall have the staff, with knowledge, resources and powers to carry out the related tasks. In our view, interference with other branches of government, in this case executive or even management of state property, is moving attention away from the area entrusted to us Members. It is also worth mentioning here that the existing law allows for the participation of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly for the Control of Public Finance at meetings of the SDH Supervisory Board. The President of the said Commission is, as a rule, and also in this reference, a member of the opposition party is precisely in order to provide an additional incentive to ensure transparency in the functioning of the Supervisory Board. Corporate governance in the area of state property management is a good result of cooperation with the OECD and the warnings we have received so far. One of the building blocks of effective governance of state property is thus certainly the shift of SDH from daily political shocks, which, due to the often pronounced volatility of the daily policy, can have significant negative effects on the management of the state's assets. As a result of us and of Slovenia's international involvement in the international environment, we in the SMC Group feel that any surrender to such temptations by the legislative authority represented by members of political parties will certainly not remain unnoticed at home or abroad. Let me conclude by summarizing the position of the SMC Group of Members. Part one of the first solution, which we understand as a call for greater transparency over future owners, we support customers, but at the same time stress that this is already envisaged in the framework of the principles and other provisions, and at times the question arises whether it is also sufficiently articulated. The proposal to give the National Assembly the powers it has with regard to the discharge of government supervisors seems inappropriate to us in view of the established model of corporate governance and the related division of power, competence and responsibility, as it poses high risks to the instability of future mandates of both supervisors and the SDH indirect administration. We also believe that the additional powers of the National Assembly in relation to the third proposal can lead, in our view, to the assessment of professional decisions in the light of the needs of daily policy without a clear benefit for the country. In the SMC Group, we would like the words to run for the next few hours primarily with the aim of making the proposer's initiative substantively crystallised and justified in the spirit of finding possible better solutions than the existing law offers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u73	Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u74	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Slovenian State Holding proposed by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the cause and consequences of the changes and additions to this law are mainly in the bad functioning of the government as a supervisory authority in terms of the assembly and the consequences of the actions carried out by the Slovenian State Holding Authority in particular related to the latest sales of state property. Undoubtedly, both the Commission for the supervision of public finances and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have already addressed this issue, the issue of the sale of companies to companies registered just before the opening of the sale process or established in almost so-called tax havens, we have also noted in the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the one hand, the proposals that follow can lead towards the objectives set, and on the one hand, according to the functioning of this government and the coalition, SMC, SD and Desus, we do not rule out in the Slovenian Democratic Party, even if the law mentions the facts that this coalition would decide to go the other way and bypass certain parts of this law. I would like to try to clarify these matters further, as regards the Supervisory Board. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are still convinced that a representative of the opposition should have a place in the supervisory council under the same conditions as the members of the Supervisory Council in the Slovenian State Holding. In the position of the Modern Centre Party, it was said that the representative of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission or the President could be present at the meetings of the Supervisory Board, but they forgot to say that without voting rights. I do not think that without a voting right you can have the same effect on the functioning of the Supervisory Board as if you had a voting right, because this is not just an insight into the meetings of the Supervisory Board, the SMC's distinguished representatives, the President of the Commission for the Supervision of Public Finance cannot be on the committees of the Supervisory Board, on the Human Resources Commission, on the audit committee. We know what decisions have been taken by the Staff Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board on the proposal to appoint members of the NLB Supervisory Board. The Secretary of State mentioned that this would increase political pressure in the supervisory board. Dear Secretary of State, isn't the presence of the Minister of Finance and the presence of the Minister of Economy at the meetings of the Supervisory Board even greater political pressure? If we are talking about such political pressure, then I am sure it is. With regard to the Supervisory Board, we have already warned ourselves that there is a conflict of interest in the appointment approved by the Coalition. That at least one member of the Supervisory Board proposed by the Government is in conflict of interest and does not meet the conditions for a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. This also proved to be true when the President of the Supervisory Board said that this lady was being excluded from the decision-making process when we were talking about the Ljubljana Bank, because the fact is that this lady is employed in a society with a 50% share of Nova Ljubljanska Banka. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, in view of all of the above-mentioned activities of the Slovenian State Holding Group, it can be worrying, especially because the Government or the Ministry of Finance do not react. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that it is imperative to complement and amend not only the law, but the strategy for the management of state property. That is why we now call on the Secretary of State to bring to the National Assembly, as soon as possible, an updated and amended strategy for the management of state property, because we are convinced that this is the document which should contain all these things, which is also mentioned after the amendment and amendment of this law by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Last but not least, the leadership of the Slovenian State Holding has come to the conclusion that the strategy endorsed by this coalition is inadequately defined. The fact is that they point to the very issue that we have already pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party when adopting the State Property Management Strategy, namely that there is no essential element in this strategy, which you have drawn up, which is then also unanimously supported by the coalition, to how companies should act in the event of takeovers. This is what we have warned you about, and this has now come to the lead of the Slovenian State Holding, which at last week's financial conference in Portorož also called for you to start changing and supplementing this strategy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose these proposals, but we would like to point out that state property is not government property, that the government is solely responsible for the management of state property and that it is the property of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Convinced that governance of state assets is not the most effective, this is especially evident by the resignations of the members of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. The new Ljubljanska banka is ahead of an important journey, goes into a sales process, does not have full leadership, does not have full authority. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the full responsibility for the situation lies with the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The text is given by the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law to support us in the Desus Group after the debate. In the vast majority, we disagree with the solutions proposed. It is suggested, for example, that the National Assembly, on its own motion, may recall a member of the Supervisory Board. The current regime provides for the appointment and recall of SDH supervisors by the National Assembly, but on a proposal from the Government. The government represents the Assembly and, in accordance with the guidelines on cooperative governance, this is its task, but in the case of SDH, it is for the management of some billion state assets for a particular specific purpose. In this case, therefore, a security guard shall be installed in the form of the necessary agreement by the National Assembly. In the Desus Group, we believe that the possibility of recalling the proposal of the National Assembly would seriously erase the line that distinguishes policy from governance, which would be a major blow to the stable functioning of the Supervisory Council. With regard to the solution that the National Assembly would be responsible for overseeing the operation and operation of SDH, it should be recalled that the SDH Supervisory Board is already responsible for this. Supervisors shall also be liable to compensation for their conduct to the Republic of Slovenia and shall be liable in the proposed law for compensation for Members and Members and provided for. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that such a solution would result in harmful politicisation in the management of the country's capital investments. However, in the Desus Group, we agree that the sale of state property to companies whose owners are not verifiable poses a serious problem. It appears that the owners are quite a few companies sold by the State, companies from tax havens. This was also pointed out by our Member Uroš Prikl, with a question on the sale of New Credit Bank Maribor to the company from the tax oasis. After reporting to the media, between the eight companies sold from the list approved by the National Assembly in 2013, three ended up in the hands of companies of collectors from tax-friendly environments: Photona, Elan, NB Maribor, and two – Adria Airways and Helios became part of the ownership chain in which companies from Luxembourg play a key role. The SDH management, in its press statements, advocates the view that if the investor were prevented from optimising taxes legitimately and legally, he would be willing to pay less. Especially dedicated companies registered in tax havens are, therefore, something normal in the business world. We agree that high purchases are probably the most important objective in the sale of companies. At the same time, it must be recognised that, following the publication of Panamanian documents, a lively debate took place on the competent working bodies, where we were mostly united that the global tax oasis system offered the possibility of tax evasion, and as such it was harmful. Secluded taxes could be used to build roads, hospitals, schools or, if you want, to finance long-term care at home or, if you paraphrase, if anything is legalized, it does not mean that it is legalized for the benefit of everyone. However, we also have our reservations until the first paragraph of the proposal, since, as regards the work to ensure that the new owner pursues objectives consistent with the strategy, it is necessary to be aware that the strategy does not relate to individual companies, but to the capital investment of which the State owns. As has already been said, we will decide in the DeSUS Group on the further consideration of the bill following the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The purpose of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act is to eliminate at least some of the anomalies that have recently occurred in the functioning of the Slovenian State Holding Act, which is entrusted with the management of state-owned enterprises. The key solutions are three, namely the obligation to sell state shares in companies known and verifiable ownership of the buyer, then the possibility of the National Assembly to decide, on a proposal from the Government, whether or not a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State holding company is to be released if, of course, it violated the provisions of Article 44 of this Law or does not fulfil the conditions for membership. Furthermore, it introduces the supervision of the National Assembly over the Slovenian State Holding, namely its business, operation and implementation of strategic documents. On this basis, the National Assembly could also obtain the documents and data it needs to carry out such control, which is now unavailable under the provisions on the independence and autonomy of the Slovenian State Holding. While the government opposes the adoption of the law, it considers that it would intervene in the autonomy of the Slovenian State Holding. In our view, however, the autonomy and independence of the Slovenian State Holding Group are important and must be separated from daily, political and other pressures. However, Slovenian State holding company is still only a property manager and not its owner. At the moment, legislation currently in force does not practically distinguish between these two concepts and thus makes it impossible for the owner, i.e. the country, and consequently the ownership of all citizens and citizens to control effective governance. This influence is too limited. We would also like to point out that the Government must be aware that it is responsible for managing this property and that it cannot transfer its responsibilities to the Slovenian State holding company. Although the National Assembly adopts the Capital Investment Management Strategy on a proposal from the Government and appoints the Supervisors of the Slovenian State Holding, it is strongly limited to the National Assembly by the fact that the initiatives must be given by the Government, but Parliament itself does not have access to documents that could carry out democratic control imposed on it by the Constitution and by legislation. But from us, I think we can say that citizens and citizens expect this control to be carried out effectively. Therefore, we believe that the proposed solutions are going in the right direction mainly because in the last months, when certain sales of state-owned companies took place, we point out here the case of the New Credit Bank Maribor, of course, similar to other cases, there were doubts about the real ownership of buyers' companies. These customers generally came from tax havens and the characteristic of these customers is that we do not know their properties and that they are obviously organised to avoid paying taxes. Given that, in the last amendment to the Banks Stability Act, we have made a great deal of efforts to draw up the text of an article that prevents bad banks from selling claims to those who have also caused them, it seems appropriate for us to transfer this good practice to the Slovenian State Holding not only within the framework of a bad bank, as we have already done. In view of the events in recent months in the management of Slovenian assets, especially in the event of the New Ljubljana Bank, we would also expect a more efficient and faster response from the Government to make proposals to eliminate these anomalies. Since this is not the case, we believe that this law, which is in the process, is appropriate for us to discuss these solutions and to adopt them in a form that will address all these anomalies and shortcomings that have been taking place in recent times. Above all, these anomalies are taking these anomalies to damage people’s property, but not least then we take responsibility and we are in charge of covering bad decisions. All too often, then, by ministers and also other representatives or governors of the Bank of Slovenia, we hear that the law has been adopted by the National Assembly and that they want to cover their responsibilities somehow. It is therefore right that we are trying to sharpen this responsibility precisely in all those involved in this management. We believe that we are obliged to do so primarily because it is our common property and one of the foundations of a good and to the citizens of a friendly country and must be managed for the benefit of all. Therefore, we are convinced that it is right that this debate continues, together, regardless of customer affiliation, to make the effort necessary to at least slightly improve the way in which we manage state property for the benefit of all citizens and citizens to whom we are also responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u79	Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman, and a nice greeting to everyone! Now, after two years of the work of the government of Mir Cerar, many have forgotten the promise of the Party of Mir Cerar that privatisation will be considered. In the United Left, we knew from the beginning that even the most thoughtful privatisation was already harmful on the medium term, as the investor always gets more than the state pays. It is true, however, that we did not expect privatisation under this government to take place so recklessly and so recklessly. In the United Left, we do not sit on a flyer about independent supervisors in state companies, because we know that these are truly independent of the will of citizens and citizens, but they are not independent of the will of capital and client interests. There's no such supervisors. However, we did not imagine that the SDH Supervisory Board would be headed by an active bankruptcy manager, and the head of its administration would be the manager of the succeeding tycunized company without any awareness of public interest. We have always encountered obstacles to information acquisition before entering parliament, but we are surprised to see how little relevant information is obtained by Members and Members and by what weak professional basis the National Assembly makes important decisions. The protection of public interest in sales procedures, ethical staff in the responsible functions and transparency of the functioning of the State and the parastatal funds are three areas covered by the proposal for a law before us. Following our assessment, the implementation of the proposed solutions would make a significant contribution to the improvement in all three areas, and we will therefore support the law. As you know, we have already proposed two major amendments to the SDH Act in the United Left, and some of the solutions that we have proposed could also be incorporated into this proposal by adopting it for further consideration. Therefore, allow me to identify up to all three proposed solutions and give some practical examples indicating that changes are necessary. The first amendment concerns sales procedures. Applicants require that the ownership of the buyer should be known, and in particular that SDH must ensure in the sales process that the new owner of the company develops in accordance with the objectives of the management strategy we have adopted here. Indeed, the practice shows that it would be difficult to find an example in SDH where these requirements would be taken into account, despite the fact that there are several paragraphs in the management strategy that explicitly require this. Section 3.3 states, for example, that the purchase cannot be the only main objective of the sale, but also that macroeconomic effects must be taken into account and jobs must be maintained. If this provision were to be taken literally, then privatisation should be waived. It is clear that private owners will cover the costs of the loan with interest on the medium term with profits or transfer prices and will forgive in order to achieve this objective. This will increase the excess value, so we see harmful effects on jobs and employees everywhere in privatised companies. Of course, the government will not recognise this in any way, but the government will certainly not be able to deny that it has in no case produced an analysis of the costs and benefits of privatisation. If I am wrong, I expect you to show me a study showing that in Slovenia the sale of companies that were privatised during the Cerara government and 46 companies, which you intend to partially or fully privatise under the management strategy, is being paid in the long term. Of course, problems do not end there. Not only did SDH not have clear instructions on what the public interest is to protect it, SDH did not even verify that the buyer could actually meet the obligations of the purchase contract. Customers consistently hid behind companies without capital and without employees, so-called dedicated companies. One would also understand that buyers set up a dedicated company in the tax haven for such a large transaction, although we do not accept this tax dumping. The problem is that the chaining of businesses here does not end and that it is often actually difficult to determine who the real owner is and whether there is some takeover of the hostile takeover. Therefore, of course, we clearly support the demand for ownership to be disclosed before purchase. I must recall, however, that in the United Left, a good year ago, we proposed an amendment to the SDH Act, which would require the consent of the National Assembly before the sale. At that time, we also proposed that the government submit an analysis of the consequences of the sale to the proposal. I believe that this would be a logical upgrade to what a group of unrelated Members is proposing. The additional problem is in control of the new owners. In Slovenia, it has never happened that the government or the state company would sue the taker for failing to fulfil the promises in the sales contract. Security guards may be installed in these contracts, but the principle applies if there is no judge. If I am wrong, I should ask the representatives of the Government and SDH to present to me the case when this happened, that the new owner's country has sued for not complying with the provisions of the purchase contract. At the same time, the problem is that no democratic authority has access to the sales contract, not only to initiate appropriate procedures. We therefore support the third solution that the National Assembly, with its new Article 67a, will be given explicit powers of control over the work of SDH and that to this end it will be given the opportunity to access the relevant instruments. I personally and orally requested the reply of the Minister of Finance, which are the guardians of the Adrio Airways Technika Treaty, and I received only an answer from SDH that I do not have the right to access this information. Unfortunately, this does not end the list of irregularities in privatisation. The capital investment management strategy also requires SDH to examine staff requirements. In the case of Adrie Airways Technik, it has turned out that even the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management is being played here, especially not to mention that the Management Strategy, which you have adopted by the coalition Members and Members, is being played. The law was undoubtedly in breach because the management did not organise any consultation with the Council of Workers, and SDH also did not address the proposals of the two unions regarding non-financial commitments to the new buyer. The strategy turned out to be contradictory. On the one hand, it requires SDH to verify the possibility of a labour buy-in, but if a group of workers is actually organised for purchase and SDH rejects their offer, then SDH does not even allow the collective and trade unionists to make proposals for non-financial commitments. In the case of Adria Airways Techniki, it has thus proved that workers in the takeover proceedings are unfair. Their offer is rejected, but at the same time they do not get the opportunity to form non-financial commitments. This, respected, is a direct consequence of the work of the Cerara government, which I stress once again, for one of its objectives, the development of economic democracy has been a priority in the coalition treaty. What the truth is, it clearly points to the case of Adria Airways Technics. Finally, I should be able to identify the possibility for the National Assembly to propose that the members of the SDH Supervisory Board be recalled. The number of Members who can propose a recall should probably be prescribed, and it is unlikely that it would make sense for the entire national assembly to vote first on the proposal and then on the recall. But these are technical things that come into second treatment and can then be corrected by amendments. The point we need to discuss right now is the purpose of this solution. It is necessary to operationalise the right of the National Assembly to exercise its supervisory function and to recall members of the SDH Supervisory Board. At present, the National Assembly cannot begin this procedure without the cooperation of the Government, which, as a rule, supports the Supervisory Council, irrespective of the irregularities that are taking place there. But we have seen many irregularities. I must recall, however, that we proposed last year in the United Left that the National Assembly on Candidates for Supervisory Council Members vote individually, as it calls them off individually. It may not be necessary to reiterate that the coalition did not support this proposal. On the basis of this, we will support the proposal in the United Left, but I certainly note that this proposal also does not solve the essential problem of managing state-owned enterprises or operating SDH. The first step would be to ensure that workers in state-owned enterprises are entitled to their representatives' appointment to the Supervisory Board and the SDH administration. This would give them supervisors who would be independent of their client and capital interests and accountable to their employees. This is also what we proposed last year with the SDH novel, and this would be a structural safeguard of public interest against partial interests that stifle and destroy state property. We have already been assured by Secretary Draganje last year that the Government will prepare its proposal, and I hope that this proposal will come eventually, if possible, in time for the appointment of a new administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u81	The position of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Mr Dragonja Methods, colleagues and colleagues! Of course we agree in New Slovenia. It is necessary to discuss legislation governing the operation, functioning of the Slovenian State Holding, strengthening the supervisory function, and in this respect we will also vote. We will support in the first reading the proposal for a law prepared by colleagues and colleagues of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The new law, which is before us in the area of state-owned property management, proposes some changes. The first is the introduction of a verification of ownership of the acquirer of the State investment. By adopting the proposed solution, it is the view of the applicants that they would avoid guessing who the new owner is, whether it is a so-called straw buyer or whether the investment was sold to the so-called postal mailbox. It is also proposed to introduce a request to the new owner for the continuation of the objectives set out in the strategy adopted by the National Assembly for the investment in question. This is a Capital Investment Management Strategy. In New Slovenia we have strong concerns about the validity of such a request and its consequences for the progress of further privatisation procedures. We're afraid of stopping completely. Such burdens would, in our view, distort the role of the new owner, reduce the interest of investors and make it difficult for the country to withdraw from the economy. Let us note that Slovenia, according to OECD data, is one of the countries with the highest level of state ownership in the economy. Why? Because politics wants to influence the operations of state-owned enterprises and to benefit from it. Like what? Financially. It is of particular concern that we stand out very much after investments with a majority stake. The priority of Slovenia must be to transform as quickly as possible into a normal social market economy, which is very difficult or even impossible with such a high share of state ownership in the economy. Novela also intervenes in the field of oversight of the National Assembly over the functioning of SDH. Under the current legislation, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, appoints members of the SDH Supervisory Board and can also resolve them under certain conditions on a proposal from the Government. The amendment proposes that the National Assembly may also, on its own motion, recall a member of the Supervisory Board and that the working body of the National Assembly may require clarifications, data and documents from the latter for the purposes of exercising supervision of the operation and functioning of the SDH Supervisory Board. Above all, in increasing the supervisory powers of the National Assembly over the work of SDH, we see the Christian Democrats as an opportunity to improve existing bad practices in the management of state property. Stories such as Paloma and Nova Ljubljanska banka show serious irregularities in the Slovenian state holding company, which should not even happen on such important issues. Increasing the supervisory role of the National Assembly is therefore certainly a measure worth considering. Despite some of the concerns we have about the law in the New Slovenia Group, the bill addresses the real problems that we want to discuss further. The area of governance of state property is so important that we simply need to talk about it. The law follows some important issues related to the decision-making on state property that we want to discuss in the next stages of the legislative process. As I mentioned the country's capital investment management strategy, and some other parliamentary groups mentioned it, from this point of view I call on the coalition and, of course, first of all, the Government to take immediate steps to change the country's capital investment management strategy. This is not a good one, especially I think of five companies where the state wants to maintain its quarter share plus one share. Moreover, the strategy specifically states for NLB that the concentration of capital above the share of the country is prohibited. We have discussed this very fairly today in the Committee on European Union Affairs also with the present State Secretary, and we agreed. We also have the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union where the European Commission is suing and has actually received a judgment, and some countries, as has been said, have passed the judgment in favour of the European Commission. Who, dear colleagues, among you would buy a four-bedroom apartment, pay it in full and allow the previous owner to remain in another room? Who? None of us, because it's just crazy. In Novi Slovenije, we will therefore support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act at this stage of the legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you, too. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u84	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The problems of the government regarding property management are becoming more and more at the forefront of the Slovenian public. What are we talking about? We are talking about having meetings in Parliament on the management of state property, on supervisors, on licensing, but proposals that are good – and all acknowledge that they are good – are not accepted because they are in the future preparing strategic changes. Informal groups that influence this are increasingly coming to the fore. We can raise two problems. The first problem is non-transparent recruitment at all levels, especially exposed to SDH, DUTB. The second problem is that there are no mechanisms of responsibility and control mechanisms; however, if there are, they are not implemented. The State can manage its assets and manage it through its assets. SDH somehow controls 11 billion state assets. And through this, the country can be managed for the good of the people. We refer to corporate guidelines for OECD-like governance. Short, firm — What do these guidelines mean? They mean that the government sets goals, priorities to establish mechanisms for accountability and transparency of action, while at the same time responding to Parliament. However, we forget about these guidelines to transfer something that has been well implemented abroad, namely corporate responsibility, the responsibility of supervisors with their assets. In our home, supervisors do not respond in compensation with their property. And until that happens, we will not have responsible management. The second part is control mechanisms. The government has not established or implemented control mechanisms. What are we talking about? On anti-corruption rules, on asset transparency rules, on money laundering tracking, on internal and external controls, on transparency mechanisms that could highlight integrity tests introduced in some countries. We do not implement such mechanisms in our country. The government is also blocking access to data. It does not impose the responsibility of those in the highest positions. It does not allow investigative journalism to be supported if we do not receive information from the Government. At least investigative journalists could come up with some information. We have not yet introduced financial transparency. All of this is typical of weak governments. Weak governments who are subject to informal groups and their influences. They avoid responsibilities, so no one will answer with their possessions. More. They take responsibility for another, for SDH or for Members. The Finance Minister and the Prime Minister of the Government have repeatedly pointed out in this Parliament that the Members have been appointed SDH supervisors and that you are therefore Members responsible. The government bears its responsibility to the Members. And it is precisely because the government is not taking responsibility and is transferring responsibility to the National Assembly that we have drafted amendments to the SDH Act in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We're pursuing two targets. The first objective is the transparency of the buyer. Recent cases show that there are non-transparent purchases, buyers are hiding and the right buyer can be hidden through the chains, while the buyer can at the same time be the one that caused the bank hole or the liquidation of companies. We were able to return part of the measures by the Group of Non-Aligned Members to the DutB Act, so our proposal is to return the same guards to the SDH Act as well. Of course, the buyers, who are supposed to be strategic buyers, at least that is how we decided in the strategy, should follow the guidelines we adopted in this national assembly. The second objective follows the objective of appointment and discharge. If the government says that we are Members responsible for appointing SDH supervisors, then it is only right that we also retain this right to recall them. In parallel, we can access documents that are important and disclose data on the functioning of SDH and whether SDH meets certain objectives outlined in the strategy. Of course, we are not involved in the management function here, but we would like to increase the control that the government does not wish or does not know how to exercise. If we are already responsible, it is only right that we get certain information for monitoring. Of course, all the mechanisms remain. If I finish. We hope that the coalition will confirm the proposed changes, namely changes in the direction of transparency and accountability mechanisms and mechanisms that mean that we will manage assets for the good of people, not for the good of some informal networks. The law before us is the first step. If you feel that any solutions are not good, we have time to harmonize them and make such solutions that those who do not work in harmony with the law will be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Bratuškova, as representative of the proposer, please choose your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, my fellow Members and colleagues, for the opinion expressed, and for the support of a number of members of the Group. I hope that, in the course of the debate, I will also be able to convince the SMC's largest group to support this law at first reading and to correct it together. Very briefly once again, three key changes. It seems important to me that, of course, we cannot, nor do we want to take any powers from the coalition or from the government. But if Slovenian state holding on behalf of citizens and citizens manages our assets, I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that you too want the information you require from them to provide you. If there are secrets in the way that we read them where this city is, and of course we do not talk about them, nor do we harm companies or Slovenian State Holding, to anyone, but it is not owned by the holding company and it is right to know what is happening in this holding company. This is just about transparency. That's the first change. The Supervisory Board, or so I will start, Slovenian State Holding is not a purely ordinary business company, because if not, we would not need the Slovenian State Holding Act, we would simply have the Company Act, it would be established and functioning. It is not an ordinary business company and we call the Supervisory Board, you name it in the National Assembly. In this case, we were a congregation for this company because usually the congregation appoints overseers. And it is probably true that this same congregation has the right to propose a solution if, on the other hand, irregularities occur or the conditions laid down in the law are met. And nothing changes these conditions, the conditions for the dismissal of the members of the Supervisory Board remain the same, only the National Assembly would have the power to propose their replacement. Of course, you know that if a coalition is united, it can't happen, so you don't have to be afraid of anything here either. Just think logically if the one who appointed someone has no right to propose his release, I don't know, at the time of our first adoption or the second change of law, we missed it, and it's probably not a sin if you forget something, so we'd like to fix it now. With the majority of the votes in this National Assembly, the well-respected coalition, or especially the modern centre Party, should not worry that anything will be done past the government and past the ruling coalition. You're the one who's gonna make that decision. And third, as I personally point out, on every Finance Committee on every Public Finance Supervisory Commission, I think it is unacceptable that we require our people to respect laws, to pay taxes, to not allow them to take their assets and money to tax havens and, on the other hand, to sell that same property right there. Right there. This year I don't know if it was any, not this year, not even in last year's time, at the time of the government of Mira Cerar, what kind of sales were made in a different way than the financial fund and the tax haven. I don't think he can and must not be our target. However, if we are selling to a country called the tax oasis, the owners must be the new owners of the company to be disclosed. This seems important to us without selling a company like what happened to Adria, someone who didn't know this fund as well, 18 employees have and come and buy an important company like Adria Airways. So this is really not a matter of taking over state property by the opposition, but we would like to ensure transparent, fair governance, in general, so that Slovenians and Slovenians have as much of this management as possible. Therefore, once again, the biggest government party to consider if this is not in line with its programme, if this is not in line with its pre-election promises, this Act on the Slovenian State Holding in the first reading supports, and then, of course, continue as always, as we can always correct things with amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u88	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear proposalant! For the introduction of one symbol. In fact, just a year ago, Slovenian State Holding decided today to sell Telekom and then, look at the fraction, corporate performance, our government will come and stop this sale. So this is how we go corporate. Here's to the intro. Rage and anger not only in the media, in the public, but also in one part of the opposition, including coalitions in the last period due to the untransparent operation of the Slovenian State Holding Company in the sale has somehow united the public. As it turns out, the question is, who are these buyers who come and buy state property? In New Slovenia, we are committed to this and we stress privatisation, we stress the search for responsible owners for our property, I stress responsible owners, not verified owners such as, for example, companies established two days before the tender for the sale of one Slovenian company is published. We cannot call these companies otherwise as speculators from tax havens, collectors of anything and there are reasonable suspicions that this may be our money, which was once transferred from Slovenia to tax havens. These speculations exist and appear increasingly likely behind these companies, usually either Cyprus or Luxembourg, the tax haven in Latin America and so on. As far as the law is concerned, Nova Slovenija will support the law in this reading. Personally, I personally agree that SDH must verify the buyer; it should, if we are talking about it, also for the Banks Claims Management Company; otherwise, we have a tragedy like the one that happened to us in the Vipav Valley when Agroind Vipava was sold to a straw Ukrainian owner for EUR 2 million. So we're looking for responsible owners, which is why it's right to check them out. I also agree with the recall. If the National Assembly has the option of putting someone on the stand, it should also be able to suspend them. He has this possibility, in fact, but only on a proposal from the government. However, I do not agree in this part of the law saying that this company, as the new owner says, must continue the strategy. Here it is a little confusing, and the new owner will decide what to do with his company. In the next stages it would be right, since New Slovenia will amend this law in these articles. Otherwise, the law is welcome and good in view of the circumstances in which we are today in the management of state property. This management – it is worth mentioning the obvious that our sales and asset management are controlled by the lobby, the network and not by the Government anymore, because I really don't understand that nor does the politics of the largest coalition party that is drowning. And finally, the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, the biggest sale we have ever seen. Once again the so-called IPO sale was chosen, it is said that we will not be looking for the strategic owners of the New Ljubljana Bank, but we have opened the possibility of dispersed ownership. And what's the worst? The worst part is that the country will still have a certain share in the company, with which it will still be able to prevent key changes in the New Ljubljana Bank. I will support this law at this stage because it is well-intentioned and is actually good for better governance of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u89	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Let's get the mags ready for him. Dušan Verbich and Mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! How we will manage state property in Slovenia, what our industrial policy will achieve, and how we as a community will ensure lasting growth in jobs, economic growth, employability and, ultimately, the sustainability of all our basic systems on which we have founded the country, that is, health, education, social security and solidarity, we are talking over and over again, but more and more in the context of finding that we must begin to correct some finance in all segments, or even all systemic solutions, because we find that certain decisions that we have taken either in this context or in previous ones do not simply follow the objectives and interests that I represent on behalf of citizens and citizens here. In the case of State property management, and when it comes to SDH and the amendment to the law proposed by unrelated Members and Members, it is indeed a proposal that wants to open an important debate. Firstly, to evaluate what we have achieved and achieve effectively the transparent and clear objectives endorsed by the National Assembly and, or in a global sense, in the competition for jobs, also in the collection of taxes, we can achieve the interests of citizens and citizens by this concept. If all the systems we've put in place were to hold and act the way we want, there would be no need for such a novel. And that is why any thought that goes in the direction of rejecting, for example, the first sentence of Article 1, since in the first half it says "reasonable solution", and in the second half, I have to agree here, is also an intervention in the right of someone who executes payment as owner of a management right over a property, is pointless. We can delete this second part on the committee and then adapt the amendments to what, I hope, Mr Dragonja, the Government will propose, because here, of course, the answer that the solutions do not support, the answer, what is the alternative, but it does not add to this, is not something that the National Assembly should have taken for the nth time, especially when we are talking about five billion national assets. The fact that the National Assembly can, because it has to appoint – then the Minister of Finance tells us through the question of the Member State, that we also take full responsibility – supervisors, but I would not have the right to call them off or discuss their work and responsibilities, seems strange to me in some way, even if we were to follow a completely mathematical logic, is that I am taking some responsibility for the decision, but I have no right to take any more of the confidence that those who have relied on my confidence, then my trust is realized, or at some points of abuse, if I say so. Since I have to be honest here, I am very surprised that then it can happen that they come for supervisors at the largest, sometimes we call it a system bank or something, people who then turn out to be at some session of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, but someone who is a former supervisor, someone who is a former co-worker from the CEO, one who is appointed to manage. I apologize, the National Assembly, in its supervisory function assigned to it by the Constitution, has something to say on this subject. And since there was no corrective action by the Government, I would rather see that the Government would come up with a measure that might address any other issue of this administration, but we would support the proposal of a novelty of unrelated Members and Members. Why? Because if we wait another two years, it may not even make sense to discuss the management of state property anymore. Before that, my colleague Tonin was very kind in reminding me of the sale of Telekom, which was not the case. At that time, of course, we listened to all possible arguments as to how Telekom would fail and how he would no longer be if the sale did not take place. A year later, he made almost record profits. It works well. And I ask myself here several times as a member of the National Assembly, who and why is a, fighting these houses and b, who and why in some cases is deliberately arguing only one side, not to use any other verb, what is he doing using different words to exclude the purpose. What is most important in this story — we as a country must pursue the goals we set ourselves. And certainly, the goal is not to sell all the assets we have for the highest possible purchase into tax havens. Why? Because even if at some point we get twice as much for this property as I do, the market value, so we lose all taxes, all development, all jobs, I don't know what's left. Then we also place ourselves in a global context in the position of helping someone whose origin, name, will be unknown. A label on a mailbox that will move once to the Caribbean, once to the Netherlands, once to Cyprus. That seems completely illogical to me. I believe someone else. And if we can say that the first solution is certainly such that it can be easily accepted, that the other two are such that they need some additional modifications in terms of moderation and verification of the proportionality of these solutions, it is certain that I expect the Government and the Ministry of Finance to participate constructively in the second reading of this law, because I expect that there is sufficient wisdom in this national assembly to support it in the first reading. And then there is plenty of time and opportunity on the committee to resolve another dilemma if there is a dilemma, what are the objectives of managing Slovenian property and what are the objectives of managing this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Mr. Verbich. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry about the mag. The soul of Verbich is a mag. Ange Logar and then Mr Matjaž Han. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Secretary of State, a very nice greeting! For the intro. I am of the opinion that my thinking and my personal position on understanding what the term responsible owner means, that I attach exclusively to national ownership or a country, that I will use the term, that is not compatible with individual or individuals and individuals, that is, members of this National Assembly, that is to say in the understanding of Members and Members of Parliament, and I must also acknowledge with some of the executive branch of the Authority. I hope I'm wrong. I will very much define myself on the proposal and limit the content of today's proposed law with regard to the fact that something has already been said in the debate. But I will also allow myself to comment a little, with just one sentence, because a little while ago we had the Agroinda case on the Committee on Agriculture and Economics. I'm going to touch it a little bit further, but what I wanted to say is that in this company it was felt that the co-owners were also employees, the real natural persons, even those employees had in the governing bodies, is said in the supervisory board, also their working representative, but, look at the fraction, if known, this society is now in some bankruptcy process. I wanted to say this because, even in the National Assembly, a number of words have already been said about how to practically save businesses, state property and the like by working together. That's it. I return to the law itself; in relation to this proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which, as we see and have become acquainted with these four articles, I would touch on what is most important and speak in my personal name and view. In paragraph 7, the first sentence states: "In the course of the sale of investments, it is necessary to ensure that the ownership of the new owner is known and verifiable." I look personally at the current situation, the situation, and the events, that this is what I am very fond of with regard to the very contents of such a written sentence. I will then try to be a little critical of this content. Why is my first sentence very, if I may say so, contentually pleasant? In particular, because the Government, which has taken a position on this bill, has written: "The first paragraph of the new seventh paragraph suggests that it is necessary to ensure, when selling investments, that the ownership of the new owner is known and verifiable." I'm really happy with that attitude. In the Government's view, although the provision is appropriate, it is true that there is a comma here, only I would give a sentence, because in the following, which refers to international standards and good practice, it already states that this is being done and I am pleased. I am particularly pleased that the following is very nice, I can almost say school writing about how Slovenian and international guidelines are applied, good corporate governance practices. What I am particularly pleased with is this: "With the care of a good and honest economist". For these two principles, frankly, are written upon my skin. I hope that these matters are also being carried out in business events. But I have to touch what I said in the beginning, the Agroind case, which is really not SDH, is DUTB. And let us not blind ourselves to the fact that both DUTB and SDH are in the administration of the government, the state, whatever we take. And why do I think Agroind is so important, even at this point, is solely related to this sentence of the proposed amendment to this law. At this joint meeting of the Committee, it was found that, in cooperation with natural persons, which is very commendable, the DUTB came to the common denominator and on behalf of all, given that DUTB appeared as the owner of the claim, most likely then the claim also came from a business interest or property, that it simply sold this share together, as I said, with the owners. And, look at the fragment, they sold it to the mailbox. Not what has already been said today, the post office in the tax havens, as we know Panama and so on, no, has been sold to the post office in the country of Ukraine. And what I personally think is worrying in such cases is that such a business, an event that ended with money transfers or a money transaction, was completed through a Slovenian bank, but I would ask that you do not abuse in any discussion of how I am misleading, but a Slovenian bank that has not been recapitalised. I wanted to give this case that this business innovation is abundant and we should simply not be blinded by it. And if I come back now. In the past, the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, together with the coalition partners, has been very active in this direction, in order for some of these cases to happen, the real sale of state assets would not have happened. And here I would like to recall, despite the concerns then also on the side, I will say, the opposition, we have supplemented with Article 13 of the Bank's Credit Stability Regulation Act. The title of this is a ban on acts that unjustifiably benefit the debtor. I can say that the title is such that it practically tells everything, but we are faced with trying to bypass the law, obviously, or by trying to bypass the law with so-called postal collectors. And what I have to admit is that it is also worrying for us that such transactions can also be carried out through a redemption of claims, for which there are almost no secrets anymore, because the media already make it very clear that they are discounts up to 80%. And precisely by this provision, which consists of two very large paragraphs, we would like to clarify that it would not have happened when individuals who may have - the emphasis may have been in the past - were involved in one way or another in these so-called procedures of the bank hole. We can only see that innovation in the business field has no limits and is also practically present in our country. I would like to touch further on the next article tabled by the applicant, which states that the National Assembly, in addition to the Government, would also be in some processes. I myself believe that it is most likely that it is not as easy as it is to discuss, on a substantive basis, necessity or sense, because we are immediately facing, as is commonly known, for and against. And now I would not point out, especially on that substantive side, why it would not be good for the National Assembly to intervene in this matter, because I think that the present one is very aware of what corporate governance means, the one with the responsible owner. The fact is that a sound corporate governance principle simply means that those who manage it, whether it be a single or a two-tier management system, must have a mandate. And what's even more important is that they're really responsible, too. And if certain matters break down for a business reason in any way, we have plenty of mechanisms for this, including control councils, so that these matters can be rectified. However, I will not touch on those who have recently been very active in the National Assembly, as well as on the work of their mothers. As far as Article 3 is concerned, I would nevertheless like to say a few words, given the need to say that the current law on Slovenian State Holding in Article 41 makes it very clear and precise: "the work of the Supervisory Board, in which both the executive and the legislative branches of power are involved." Which is also the right thing to do. It is true, however, that both have only informational involvement in the Governing Council at this point and have no decisive role to play. Personally, I think it's the only right thing to do. Why could the legislative body intervene in some decision-making processes at this level if we said we were really following the withdrawal of policy from governance. Those who may think or even suggest that it would be good for the President of the Commission to have a respected mag for the supervision of public finances. The spread, which is present here, the so-called right of decision in the supervisory council, must simply face the following fact when looking into SDH's statutes. Article 11 states: "In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 47 of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Administration shall require the approval of the Supervisory Board for the following operations..." I'm not going to mention how many of these transactions there are, but when you look at the business they're doing, it certainly turns out that you have a decisive role in the supervisory world and an influence on decision-making, that's to say, when you give your consent. Thus, in this part, I personally believe that simply when we are in the position that the National Assembly has a supervisory function, we simply must not interfere with the fact that it also has a so-called management function. Furthermore, with regard to the current SDH law, I would like to touch 67 more. Members, this is paragraph two. What's he saying? “SDH quarterly report on government management”, totally normal, “for a quarter of a year. The quarterly management report shall be sent to the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of public finances.” I think that this is clear enough if the parental committee wants to monitor the work intensively, it is also justified, under normal circumstances, to obtain the data or documents it wants. However, I would just like to point out that this is mainly based on the fact that when business events or contracts or transactions are concluded, including the fact that no regular or extraordinary legal remedies are made on the basis of any possible later or then misunderstandings between buyers and sellers. But I have a slightly different question about this provision. Is this the same text and content as the report that the National Assembly receives? For we know, one is a principle report, but one is, I can almost say, a detailed report. And that's a matter of interpretation. And I believe that, given the authority of the chairman of this parental committee, there should be no problem here at all. If I finish. I would like to highlight what I mentioned in the introduction. An interesting first sentence of this Article is the seventh paragraph, which certainly makes sense to discuss deeply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Ange Logar. Prepare Mr Matjaž Han and Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, mag. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. As a result, we are talking about some 14 billion state assets, and it is amazing that the main government party takes only 25 minutes of debate for this purpose. We have a very interesting situation. We all find that, in the management of state property, something is very wrong, from the fact that our silver is purchased by the company's collectors, to the fact that shame is happening, as far as the appointment of supervisors is concerned, and could also be mentioned from the fact that sales fall into the water because of the government's strange conduct. And I can't help but feel that it's unusual for me to have the biggest government party with the greatest responsibility to remain silent in such bad practices. So allow me to turn today's part of a debate mainly towards the other two coalition partners, not against the SMC, which has now said in 15 minutes what she had to say, but especially to Desus SD. The government, as stated in the explanatory statement, although this explanation was accepted by all coalition partners at the government's meeting, but since we are Slovenia's parliamentary democracy, I believe that all two of the three government parties can separate the Government from Parliament and that Parliament is the branch of the government and that, on the basis of the debate, the parliamentarians themselves will then decide no matter what their ministers vote on the government. See, in this explanation of the bill, the Government stated that this law defends the principles of care, responsibility, independence, transparency and economy in the management of state assets. And you think that's true? It seems to you that the arrangements we now have and the leadership of SDH under Mr Jazbec's tactics are one that justifies care, responsibility, independence, transparency and economy, or would you say that everything before that. I think there's more people who would say if they didn't, but that's not what the government's after here. And the well-respected coalition partner Desus and SD, the Government wrote here in this reply when it rejected such a proposal, that when investment is sold, it is necessary to ensure the ownership of the known owner, or that the ownership of the new owner is known and verifiable, that the National Assembly has the power to require and obtain documents, in the event of irregularities, to decide on the replacement of the SDH supervisory board, has written down, quote: "In this regard, the Government considers that a legal provision imposing on the seller, in the opinion of the Government, that it will ensure from the private buyer that it will pursue the objectives, strategies, management, substantively resists and continues to mean that the condition of the sale of the State's capital investments by including commitments to comply with the strategy automatically means a smaller set of potential buyers." Imagine that Desus and SD would be behind such statements in another government. But you know what the huronic opposition would be, and it's obvious that your ministers have attached such positions to it. In fact, I would never have imagined if I hadn't read it, that you were behind such positions, at least in government, I say, in government, not in parliament. This is another branch of government that will make its own decision. And why does the government defend such a law as it is, so it does not attach itself to the amendments? He says: “The law solves the problems that have emerged in this area over the last period and are mainly due to the fact that the management of state investments is in a permanent transition period.” Next: "...the only law that is now in force has been fully revived and the Republic of Slovenia has also complied with all the OECD and European Commission accession recommendations in 2015 in the field of corporate governance of state-owned companies." Well, who are you painting? Excuse me, ma'am. It seems to you in the country of management of capital investments, that it has fully recovered and that it respects all the rules of corporate governance of state-owned companies. It seems to you, frankly, that after the parliamentary VIP has forgotten how you should vote, it seems to you, by yourself, when you look at all the scarves with the appointment of supervisors and then by selling this state property, that this is corporate governance, as our citizens and citizens deserve. I appeal to two coalition partners, at least you think about it before the vote. Think about it. And further, one of the measures to prevent such a situation, as apparently Alenka Bratušek or unrelated Members wish to submit with this proposal, is: “The appointment and withdrawal of members of the Supervisory Board by the National Assembly only on a proposal from the Government and not on a proposal from the National Assembly.” So the National Assembly couldn't call it off. Now let us imagine a situation where we have a President of the Government who can't decide on anything and, as a result, a Government that can't decide in any way and is rude to all but the Priories. What about in this case?Oh, my God! Or in this case, Members should wait for the state property to be sold to “kaselc companies” so that bank supervisors will be given the resources from the bank that have previously dug the bank hole, so that SDH will lead the man who is responsible for the 750 million bad loans transferred to the DUTB, and we should remain silent and be rude. Dear Members Desus and honourable Members of the SD, ask yourselves in this regard. I think that this is an exclusive task and a major task if there is such a situation that Parliament reacts. Finally, we are Members of the people's electorate, and we are accountable to the people. We're responsible for the people, we're the ones who the voters put us in this place to represent their interests. The government is just an executive branch, one that does what we accept here in the National Assembly and on the basis of what we accept in the National Assembly. If the Government says that such a solution, which is not ideal, I also have certain concerns about the proposed one, over the dictates of the articles, but it is a start, it is a reason for us to let the law go forward in the next procedure. But if the government insists that this solution, which we now have before us, violates the fundamental principles of corporate governance and opens the door wide to the full politicisation of the management of the country's capital investments, which would result in an anarchic, unprofessional and ineffective management of state-owned societies, I ask the Government, which wrote this down, what do we have today. What do we have today? Do we not today have an anarchic non-professional and ineffective management of a state-owned association? My humble opinion is that we have exactly this. If we have that exactly, I think it is the task of Members of Parliament to respond to that and to prepare solutions that will mean a step forward. If the condition is not right, we need to move forward. It always starts somewhere, starts with some novels of the bill, that's what we have on the table. I will personally support this proposal, although I have said that in some things I do not agree with this proposal, we can then resolve this in the course of the legislative process. To preserve the situation, as is today, see, this is the ignorance of the will of taxpayers and the ignorance of those respected Members of Desus and SD, who eventually elected you to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much. When I listened to Mr Verbic, I think it is right to further explain some things, because the explanation of the changes has somehow gone in the wrong direction. Not a single word in this bill and our desire not to interfere with the powers of the Supervisory Council. We do not grant any new, additional or rights to the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances by means of this proposal. The composition of the Supervisory Board remains the same until the peak. All the powers the Government has to date continue to have. The only authority that we think is right to add is that the one who appoints the Supervisory Council, this is the National Assembly, has the right to comply with the law – the legal provisions must be fulfilled, without the fact that the policy entangles and throws people in and out – in accordance with these powers, the authority that appointed the Supervisory Board may also propose its resolution. This is absolutely all that currently applies to the Supervisory Board. Mr Verbich, we don't change one jurisdiction. So much so that the matter is clear. As far as that point of reporting to the National Assembly is concerned. Article 6 of the existing law refers to the principle of due diligence and responsibility, and paragraph 3 states: "Members of the authorities and other SDH responsible persons must act responsibly in the conduct of their investments and in the performance of their duties. The responsible conduct of SDH members and other responsible persons shall be ensured in particular by design, documentation and supervision.” The article then has quite a few indents and the last indent of this paragraph states: “... in short, by preparing and monitoring the records of SDH meetings and the SDH Supervisory Board, and the existence of copies of the SDH Board and SDH Supervisory Board meetings and other relevant documentation on the basis of which the performance or diligence and responsibility of the members of the bodies and other responsible persons may be assessed.” And Mr Verbic, you will not believe that SDH is at the request of three Members to get what the law stipulates must be done, we simply agreed: “No, what you care about is not a public company and we give you nothing.” The law requires them to prepare the material in this way, and we are probably responsible here in the National Assembly to check, as it says here, the performance or diligence and responsibility of the members of the authorities and other responsible persons. As a person who has worked in the economy, you probably know what quarterly, semi-annual or annual reports of companies look like, there is no talk of what happens on the supervisory boards, how certain people get into positions. This would be helpful in the National Assembly, in short, if SDH were ready to tell us what is going on at their meetings of the supervisory councils, we might know. We are talking about this information, and we would only like to provide this information to Members and Members of the National Assembly. And not only to the opposition, but also to the coalition. Also, Mr Verbic, if you would like to get data from SDH, which, at this point, if I have understood your implementation correctly, you will not get or are not fully satisfied with how SDH operates, this change would allow this. Once again, we do not interfere with any jurisdiction, we do not take any authority, we do not change the composition of the Supervisory Council, we just want to make it a little more transparent at least until the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Replica, here you go, Mr. Mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u98	I do not wish to open the debate, but I would like to ask the honourable Member, the last of which is that the SDH authorities do not transmit any documents. Personally, as former Prime Minister of the Government, I think you have come to a very good knowledge of the structure and management mechanism of state property, and I am surprised that you cannot do everything after this behaviour and knowledge to obtain such documents, even though the competent authority will not give them to you. Second thing, my comment on the board of supervisors. I apologize if you were absent at the time or if you were not paying attention to how the honourable Member of the SDS presented his position and is in his presentation and thinking speaking in this context in relation, or just to obtain information or to be in the decision-making process. It was just a debate. By completely misinterpreting this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. She's the proposer. Here you go, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u100	Mr Verbic, unfortunately, as a member of another, as if to ask for information, I cannot do it. I don't know what you mean. I probably won't be handling these things with the police. That is why we want to define in the law that, at the request of SDH Members, it must do so. Now I understand that you agree with me, so I guess it won't be a problem. I cannot be held responsible for the views of other parliamentary groups, so, of course, my colleague in the SDS has the right to say what would be good, how he thinks he would settle matters. But there is no law in this proposal right now, neither in the composition nor in the powers of the supervisory board. All we would like to do is have the right to propose, in accordance with the law, that we who sit here and are responsible for the appointment of the Supervisory Board be replaced. This is all that is currently on the table in this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaz Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, we are essentially talking about the large title of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act, which, of course, has only three articles or four articles of the Act, but it is very important and right to talk about this law. Ange from the Social Democrats probably didn't listen to us, but we said that we would continue to let go of the law at this stage, and then we will continue to talk about all these three articles, one is good, and two are debateable for my terms. Now, as far as I'm concerned, I would have done one thing in this country, in this House, I might have done the greatest plus for the country, a law with one article or two, one year of no law in this country, the National Assembly would not have invested and would not have changed. We are a country with over-lawed laws, with too many laws, and we change the law for every matter, if one does something wrong, we go to amend the legislation, instead of maybe changing those people who did wrong by a quick procedure, and that policy has changed it. But of course, if politics replaces them, they will say that we are interfering in corporate governance, in the economy and so on and oh and in general. This house is anyway the most, sorry expression, shitty in this country, we are all to blame, and we must not let any of them go, we must no longer meet in this country in our lives. It's a crazy thing for me to say. Privatization in this country has had a long beard, we've made a lot of mistakes. All the governments and all these economic experts have made so much trouble, so today, where we have, since then, been the pubes since Mr Mencinger's statement that he can wipe his ass with some certificates, until the first privatisation, to the manager's purchases in the Yanshe government, where the managers have been for reasons of, I'll say, Yanshe's or Esdee's desire to control the economy defended by hiring loans and buying companies with no money, with bank loans. And today we have come to the realization that once again, the one and the same who participated at the time can manage this economy. I don't think so. Secondly, a few years ago, today we have good results in this country, I must say that this is the fault of Alenka, that we have good results, and also of the previous government, when some three people called, then there came a threesome called Jazbec, Chufar and Bratušek, who also made some mistakes, but that today is the result, we have also to thank them. But that doesn't mean we have to sell everything in this country. We've already sold everything out, all the top firms, the brands our managers made, then the red managers, the communist managers who made the brand, we had to sell them out today. And so you have to start to react, if we're already selling companies, we're selling to strategic investors, to people who are going to bring know-how, who are going to bring new knowledge, not "kaselc to companies", as we say, or to companies that are hiding behind me for my notions, some money from Panama. After all, I read in the newspapers that Mr. Gajšek, who put a company in bankruptcy, is now buying from the DUTB company via Panama. That's what I read in Finance. In general, it is possible that this first article, which the unrelated have allowed into this law, says everything else, but the other articles are, of course, a matter of discussion and agreement. As far as this is concerned, this does not mean that I will finally adopt this law, but I will support it in some way at this stage. Now there are two more statements on state ownership. We have good and bad owners, we have good state owners, we have good private owners or foreigners and vice versa. I cannot get rid of one feeling – Pivovarna Laško and some other Slovenian top companies, which were destroyed by managers because of greed, have been pushed into the hands of a state company such as NLB, because it has not given them credits that could then give them credit, and today these companies might be with some new ownership in Slovenian hands because we know how to manage these brands. No, but this same company, this NLB, has been pushing into selling our top-notch business so that it doesn't have its core business today, and that's lending money, nothing. Because strangers who come pick up everything. In this Slovenia they will use only workers, banks and money to borrow in their countries where they come from. And that's where we made our mistakes. And if we don't all figure out together where we made a mistake, not for me, there will be nothing left for our generations. That is why I think it is necessary to support such a law right now, to talk, and sometimes also to call on those who are working poorly. Moreover, I always say this, if an economic operator is a member of a party or an expert, it must not be a problem for a situation to occur, but it must not be an advantage to the situation. But we have made a compote in Slovenia where, of course, there are economists, some economic experts, they are the right ones, and we, who are sitting in this room and who are dealing with politics, without politics, are not going, but we do not need it. I will support this marriage at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Dragonja, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. In the beginning, I must give some responses to the debate. I've been listening very carefully, you've been taking notes. I must say that what was given in my oral introduction was not responded to in any debate either by the groups or by the Members of Parliament. At the outset, we stressed that Slovenia had received certain assessments of the international economic institutions of the OECD and the European Commission on economic progress and, in particular, on the management of state assets. And these estimates are mostly positive. These estimates are that Slovenia has established a consistent framework for the management of state-owned enterprises, which is consistent with the principles of governance of state-owned enterprises, both the OECD and this latest assessment by the European Commission here share this opinion. At the same time, I would say that these institutions also give certain warnings that this system framework should be consistently continued. This does not mean that the application of these solutions and this framework does not present certain problems, certain shortcomings, there is always room for improvement, but I would like to draw attention to this part once again. If we approach solutions that will be assessed as solutions that make the management of state property worse, do not guarantee the highest international standards, this will have its price. What does this price reflect? This is also clear in the formulation of the position in the Government, the proposaler, the Ministry of Finance, has been alerted. This will be reflected in what I said in the opening statement. What was the situation in 2013 and what were the interest rates for the country's indebtedness today. That's a big difference. It also reflects on the one hand the changes made in international financial markets, and on the other hand the progress made by Slovenia in this area. We do not challenge the contribution to this progress to anyone who has participated. However, it is very difficult to accept very flat-rate arguments about the management of state property here in the National Assembly, but the majority of the assessments that have been made are that everything is wrong. Management is not transparent – one thesis; management is not effective – another thesis; there is a large number of irregularities in the Slovenian State Holding – third thesis; they are all flat, poorly justified. Once again, the deterioration of state-owned corporate governance will have its price. The Ministry of Finance is exposed to these tests practically, I would say, not on a daily basis, but on a weekly basis, when we conduct interviews with investors for state securities, when we conduct interviews with credit rating agencies when all these assessments, economic, economic and economic policies of Slovenia and progress are carried out. We would like to stress once again that it would not be good to spoil what has been assessed at this point as a measure of progress. This does not mean that there is no room for improvement. The discussions now clearly show where the pain is. We know that the political origins of different parties are very different. Major anomalies in SDH function have been exposed to flat-rate exposure several times. The procedures are difficult, we have tried to define in the written response of the Government those substantive points that are crucial, and I will not stress them again. A key issue that is important to me is that we do not interfere with the powers of the SDH Supervisory Board, we do not interfere, but there are always questions in plenary sessions, in working bodies, about the issues related to the staffing of SDH. We do not interfere with jurisdiction, but at the same time we want to have an impact on staffing. That is how I understand it, we want to have an impact on staffing, so that we can call off the SDH supervisory board, or as a result it will be the next step so that the staffing of supervisors can be changed in a simplified way. Once again, I stress that in all the interviews we have with rating agencies, with financial investors, I always say, the SDH supervisory board is composed of people coming from business, these are politically independent persons and these are also media non-exposed persons, this is the main guarantee that SDH is trying to normalise the management of state property in order to achieve those objectives that we have set in the area of governance, and that we are comparable to good practices in the management of state property around the world. But the hierarchy is next, as we know what SDH supervisors are doing. They must exercise control, according to our understanding, they must control, good practice, processes, procedures, all of this. The government sets objectives and defines the basic corporate governance documents, such as the statutes, approves annual reports, appoints auditors and so on. However, SDH is regulated by the National Assembly through a governance strategy. The governance strategy is indeed a key management act adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. In this context, I would suggest that we try to preserve this concept of public property management in order to improve it so that we do not make it worse. As far as the recruitment issues are concerned. We're always in these serious criticisms of the misrepresentation of NLB controllers. I have repeatedly said, we do not want to defend SDH, it is right that SDH is subject to criticism. But they're still putting up the wrong idea of fighting networks that want to recruit specifically in the NLB case. My thesis is that it is an institution's struggle to measure the power of institutions, or whether it has greater power in these SDH procedures as an asset manager, or will play a greater role in these procedures by Banka Slovenije as a regulator. And the government is now to solve this problem, coordinate the systemic solution in this area between Banka Slovenije, SDH and the Government, so that this will be more precisely and more clearly defined in the legislation defining the banking system, and that we will avoid such different interpretations of laws as these interpretations were made by different institutions. Last week, on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, the Director of the Service at the Ljubljana Bank, responsible for business compliance, said four times: "The Bank must carry out a preliminary assessment of the eligibility of candidates." That was his interpretation. We have looked again, I have also heard on the phone with him, not to influence him, but to see what the problems are in these understandings, the interpretations are different, and the Government is aware that these procedures need to be determined, that they need to be more precisely defined, that the objectives should be followed, that the supervisors are completely irrefutable, that they meet all the criteria required by the different financial system regulations, and in particular that they have also proven themselves by working in the past. This seems to me now a few key points to how this debate will launch is going on. The issue of numerous irregularities in SDH, which is largely related to the publication of Panama documents and the many issues involved, is being launched. Panamanian documents have actually opened up some new aspects concerning the flow of capital around the world, as regards tax avoidance. We have already twice given the National Assembly, on various occasions, a very precise, detailed view of how the Government views these so-called dedicated companies, these are companies set up by financial investors to enter the privatisation process. The proposal, as it is now prepared, can in fact lead to the situation of completely blocking the possibility of private capital funds entering the privatisation of Slovenian companies. You need to be aware of that. How do private capital funds work? They have a specific form of action because they collect, on the basis of projects defined by investment, privatisation capital, from a large number of financial investors, platforms on which these transactions operate and on which they also reduce the risks of such transactions. And if, in such a text as is proposed, this solution is indeed to be carried forward uncleared, we will come into the situation that we will simply close the work of investors to the possibility of ownership of Slovenian companies or the privatisation of state assets, which are managed by SDH under a specific programme. Mr Han made that very clear in his discussion. He said, we want to stop the possibility of financial investors entering, only strategic investors are suitable for us. And from this point of view, it is possible to make the thesis, or probably not the intention of the proposer, but in this scattered view of the issue, to actually confirm such solutions, that we will block privatisation because privatisation is harmful. It should be noted that the proposed amendments can significantly reduce the value of state assets intended for privatisation by reducing the number of potential demand. The value is always generated on the basis of supply and demand. If you reduce the number of demandrs or systematically exclude them from these processes, I may, I may stress again, it is not necessary, but it can, or systemicly, lead to a decrease in the value of this property in the segment where the state property is envisaged for privatisation. These are key aspects to be borne in mind when the proposal for a novel is to be further discussed. For these reasons, and in order not to give negative signals at this time to investors and credit rating agencies, the government is not inclined to change. The government is on track to improve financial ratings. In all three credit rating agencies, we have positive forecasts, positive prospects. You know, we only have one of the rating agencies A rating, two of them have a triple B rating with positive forecasts. We are making great efforts to skip to the A cluster of countries with financial ratings, thereby further reducing the cost of borrowing the country abroad to reduce budgetary expenditure in this part, which is one of the main leaders of the finance ministry and this government. Activities in this area may, to some extent, also put these efforts at risk. As far as transparency and transparency are concerned, I believe that we have written very clearly in the Government's position as regards Article 1 of the novel, that, according to the content of this provision, this provision is appropriate, but is, in practice, entirely covered in the implementation of the role of the Slovenian State holding company in an internal act called the Management Policy of the Slovenian State Holding, where Chapter 16 specifies the procedures for the allocation and acquisition of capital investments, where we have chapters on the methods of selling capital investments, the information on the availability of capital investments, the procedures for selling, the different sales of the majority package, the sale of minority capital investments, then special provisions on the sale process, the role of financial institutions of advisors, financial and legal advisers. In this respect, as regards the verification of customers by all key elements, that they are known owners, that they are investors who must accept a whole range of commitments that must demonstrate the financial capacity of their medium and long-term intentions, this is all an integral part of the processes that take place in the Slovenian State Holding Company today, which have already taken place and have been carried out by the predecessors of the Slovenian State Holding. However, these processes can always be improved. The completion of this governance policy, which will further clarify these provisions, is also in the process of being complemented, especially after these more sensitive topics, such as tax havens. As far as tax havens are concerned, there have been several discussions already in the working bodies of Parliament. The definition of the tax oasis we have in the Government – for once these are tax environments where an effective tax rate of profit falls below 12.5%. Today, we have also had a debate on this subject in one of the working bodies, so that we can build on these criteria in a specific way. This is shown as necessary in view of the current nature of this topic. None of the privatisations made by SDH over the last three years have been done outside the European Union. Only one major privatisation was on the list where the buyer from the United States of America was, all the others were from countries that were members of the European Union, which fell entirely under the directives and the system of management and free movement of capital and all the financial rules, so that this regime, as far as tax-friendly areas are concerned, would certainly be upgraded and subject to discussion now at the European level. However, it is difficult to assume that these procedures are imprecise and that by doing so we have sold everything into tax havens or that these owners are appropriate from this point of view. Once again, if we want to eliminate a certain segment of buyers, providers for the privatisation of Slovenian companies, we will do ourselves a bad service and this will be demonstrated on a systemic level, that is to say through further assessments, credit ratings and others to be received by Slovenia, and also through specific prices that SDH will be able to achieve when it privatises companies. You have seen in the last period that SDH has accelerated the privatisation procedures of some companies and banks, that they are serious intentions not to come into time pressure, especially with the greatest privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, that very carefully now also with financial advisers are being checked those provisions in the strategy that Mr. Horvat pointed out that these restrictions or provisions on the dispersion of capital investments or ownership may be problematic. In the preliminary assessment made by the Financial Advisor for Privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, that is, if the bank does not assess that this expert of the further privatisation procedure is critical in the proposed method, it assesses that it is not critical and that it should not have a greater negative impact on either the privatisation process or the expected effects, but will certainly be subject to a re-assessment when the proposed addition or the new capital investment management strategy is proposed to the Government and the National Assembly. This would be a few key responses to the discussions. On that basis, it does not even have a mandate, as you know, that I am changing the position of the Government, because this is the position of the Government, which it has adopted just as the Government has decided. However, I must draw attention to those aspects which we have pointed out at the outset and which, even in the debates that have been put forward and in terms of the groups of Members, might be under-under-under-under-under-under-under-under-under-under-under-under-under-under-the-tops, I would say that the behaviour of how such solutions may affect us in this part of the picture of the country as an effective country in the management of state property and state-owned enterprises may deteriorate. However, all processes that improve this governance mechanism are welcome. We are carefully monitoring, and there are always some problems when staff teams are changing, and new staff teams have little experience, and they can make mistakes, but a key message on my part is that the system framework for state-owned corporate governance, capital investment, should be managed at the level of best international practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u106	I'm sure there's not one in this room who doesn't want our country's credit ratings to go up. I am sure that we all want this, and I hope that you will do the best you can with this. But we do not need to be so dramatic about the bill that is on the table, because even if we adopted it in the form that it is before us today, the value of Slovenian property would not be reduced by a single cent. And I think it is wrong to speak so dramatically about this proposal. That the sale of state property was not all the way it was supposed to be, we were also warned by the President of the KPK on the last committee, the Commission. Those aren't my findings. Have them check and check. Great, if everything is as it should be, but obviously not everyone agrees. By the way, this law is without prejudice to the procedures for the sale of state property, not with a single letter, not with a dot, not with a comma. As far as staffing is concerned, we have absolutely no desire to influence the staff selection of the Slovenian State Holding Company, but I must have the right to act if what happened in Nova Ljubljanska Banka is happening. It's missing. We're all critical, even the government, even the biggest government party, just do nothing. Everyone's still where they were. Therefore, and just because they want to change supervisors every day, the proposal is that, in accordance with the legal provisions already written today, it is the duty of the Government to act, it is said, that the Government is the one who should act and not act, nor is it the recruitment and influence of staffing. But I agree with my colleague Han, who says that the fact that you belong or are a member or are sympathetic to one political party should not be a mortal sin that would prevent you from doing so. As far as the sale of property is concerned, let's say in tax havens and financial funds, if our assets are to be found by our companies, we want to find strategic partners, but these are simply not financial funds. Pika. It's not here, we're going to eliminate them, we're going to eliminate them, if we're going to get strategic partners, that's the fact that financial funds aren't. And from the very beginning, I do not agree with the fact that this is being sold, that Slovenian assets are sold to financial funds. I also made it clear to Telekom that I do not agree, and I am sure that Slovenian companies have an interest in strategic partners and could find them. Once again, everything on the table today can be complemented further, but I think the direction we are proposing is certainly the right one.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, prepare Dr. Bojan Dobovšek and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I see this law, this bill in particular in this direction, that the current practice shows that something does not work well. And it does not work well because there have been certain cases where it is likely that they were not transparent. They were not transparent because those who applied to the invitation to tender were not, in fact, the buyer was not the buyer, but the customer was a dedicated company. And all together, to the so-called dedicated company and as sellers of the Slovenian State Holding, probably not even the Government, but probably the National Assembly, there is no introduction to the relationship between the dedicated company and that financial fund or the main company if you want. As a result, this is another legal person, and it is completely pointless that we are talking about a transparent process here. It is simply not possible because there are no simple obligations. And whoever's supposed to be the actual buyer, then this actual buyer isn't, but it's some other company and this dedicated company. It's not a legal framework, it's some part, it's not written anywhere, what this dedicated society is, so we won't think again that it's something special. It's some part that some multinational puts in place in some country that they won't think again that it's some special legal concept, a special legal matter that has no idea what. It's just part of it or it's not even part of it. That's the first thing. Now, of course, I am also interested in what the distinguished Secretary of State has said, but in the opinion of the Government, what is the proposal, which states that the ownership of the new owner must be known and verifiable, for example, what is here contrary to the OECD guidelines on corporate governance. What's wrong with that? Now I really want to know what's wrong. Already and so, the new owner should be transparent, should know everything about him and should actually know who was actually selling it. And I do not see here in this provision that even financial funds would be exempted in this case, because they are simply not exempt. Financial Funds can also buy anything under this provision. And it's not true that it's being eliminated here, but there has to be a financial fund if you want, headquarter, it has to be the main financial fund that actually buys it. I would not go from case to case here now to talk about where the main offices have the largest financial funds and multinationals, but the ones who will actually buy it and who will actually show up their assets. However, in the course of the process, the sale of the financial fund cannot show its assets, which, of course, can be something billions, and then the beneficial owner becomes a legal person with a few tens of thousands of euros in assets. Yeah, that's not working. Nor is it possible that a Slovenian legal person will now act in this way or that he is going. And that's what's happening. For this reason, I would like to know exactly where it is, contrary to the OECD guidelines, that the owner is known and verifiable. Because, of course, the government keeps hearing this, corporate governance – there is nothing wrong with that. The government itself has repeatedly said that it is not responsible for SDH, that it is not responsible for SDH, that it is not responsible for recalling the supervisory board, that it is not for administration and so on. From this point of view, too, it is very well stated in this article’s explanation that the National Assembly also has the right to recall the Governing Council. For the first time, he sets it up or confirms it on a proposal from the Government, and for the second time, the government is not actually responsible for anything here. And it is, of course, that the present law does not work well or that the government does not want this present law to work well. And that's why these anomalies are being repaired. Even when we are talking about information in Article 3, see here, it is simply that Mr Verbic has said nicely that we are getting quarterly reports. But here's the thing if you want the point to be hidden from your eyes. These reports are well-frozen, which the National Assembly gets, as well as the Bank of Slovenia balance sheet, and we don't even know what's going on. When, for example, the Commission for the supervision of public finances requires some other reports, some other data from one, some other documents from the Slovenian State holding company, but then it justifies that it is not a public company and that it cannot get it and it is perfectly clear. And also the role, if you would like, of course, the representative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances in the SDH Supervisory Board or, if you would like the role of the representative of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the Bank of Slovenia, is welcome here, but, of course, the question is what this representative can actually do with that information. I'm once in Banka Slovenije and now in SDH, look there is still strictly confidential, all information is confidential nature, which means we can't do anything about it here. So there is now a question of role here, and there is no proposal in the sense that he will now decide there – here, Mr Verbic, you are not right to change anything here now – but not only to get to know, of course, about the effective role of this representative. In this regard, I think that this law is welcome, that these amendments to the law are welcome and that, of course, it must be supported in this direction. However, if this affects the agencies or ratings of Slovenia now, and that transparent sales will be known to the owner, wait, see, this is a little strange now. Who are these agencies defending now? This capital, and so on, or can each of your thoughts, then who are they defending? The multinationals will come to Slovenia with some dedicated society, pick up what they will pick up, and then, of course, the question is what will actually be left of it. I think that, in fact, these changes in particular represent some more control and correct what has been shown so far that it does not work best. This explanation by the Secretary of State, when the principles of certain ownership issues in Slovenia and when he also spoke about the recruitment of supervisors mainly in the New Ljubljana Bank, and when he said that it was a mistake to have a network conflict here, but that it was an institutional conflict, I quote, and stated SDH and Banka Slovenije, now things began to worry me even more. If this is a conflict of institutions in a country such as SDH and Banka Slovenije. The owner of SDH is the state, the government is the founder. Banka Slovenije, on some other occasions, we have listened to how independent it is, how no one can do anything to this bank, how the European Central Bank stands behind it, and how it is in some ways the European Central Bank's businesswoman. And now it's on one side of the fight if you want, governments as owners of SDH on the other side of the fight of the Bank of Slovenia, for which the European Central Bank stands. Look, this is a lot more worrying. If that's what this is all about. I am merely quoting you, Madam Secretary of State: “the conflict of institutions”. Who's behind these institutions now? On the one hand, as I said, the government as owner, on the other hand, the European Central Bank. Are we in a fight? Is the government in conflict with the European Central Bank? Because it is known that, of course, the Board of Governors will confirm or reject the supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank and send this matter to the European Central Bank and the European Central Bank will probably not have or are unlikely to have anything against these supervisors. So now I'm worried about the stability of this country if we have such a conflict. If we have a conflict, you said, not just a conflict, a conflict of institutions. In fact, I am afraid that we will still have to talk about this matter if this is really the case, on some other occasion, not now, of course. Otherwise, I think that, of course, I will support these changes in the law and I also support them, and I think that they will actually go in the direction that we will have a more transparent business and, of course, some of the information that the National Assembly needs here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the word, get ready for the mag. Alenka Bratusek and the last one is mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Transparency and reliability or by English accountability are key components of democracy. Slovenia is a democratic republic and owner of both SDH and DUTB. Today I read in one of the magazines that I have to read to understand what messages they give, as I would say, monopolized media. And this interview with the vice-governor of Banka Slovenije, who says: “I am close to the case of Iceland, which, due to bank abuse, has adopted a special law that makes all information related to bank resolution available to the public.” This is very close to me for many reasons. Because if that happens, and I repeat, I don't know how many times this means that the rule of law works, and it means that the foundations of democracy work. Since our budgets are now and will depend on the consequences, they have been humiliated, in fact, by the consequences of rehabilitating this bank hole. It is the funds that are the resources of all taxpayers. For this reason, I believe that the way this whole story is led is somehow wrong in the sense that it does not exclude these distortions from repeating, dragging and repeating themselves in full. And the question is whether this way of managing things actually inspires confidence not only of citizens, but also of investors who would then like to invest in Slovenia with confidence or to buy what is being sold, what needs to be sold and so on. Who will do business with institutions capable of killing all control mechanisms and creating such losses? This, I think, is also a relevant issue. And how will this end with the sale of banks? I don't know. I'm not an expert. But the question is whether buyers will be drawn to this, especially those customers who are serious and then intend to do something smart out of this in a way that the country will also have through paying taxes, taxes, and everything we know, any of this, including from the purchase. There are no answers to these questions. As well as there are no answers to how and why a bank hole was created, to pour clean wine here, and to know that this will not happen again in other forms. How many interests here are there who don't want these mechanisms to be discovered for reasons? We don't know what the real reason is. I think that the financial international crisis is just, as I would say, it has just covered up and covered the right reasons for the situation that has arisen, which has probably been favourably-politically motivated and so on. It's possible, it's very possible, very likely. There's no evidence. There is also no evidence because no one went to see and tell the public what had actually happened and why. I mean, if these issues remain unresolved; and I believe in the good faith of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Dragonja and others who are trying to get Slovenia out of these problems. One result is this, as has been said, and it seems important to me that we now have a much cheaper option of borrowing than we had before and so on. I believe in this good faith, but there are no answers to these questions. And that's not good. It's not good for the work you're trying to do. And I remain that opinion. I don't know if it's necessary to have a special law here, or if we already have instruments or if we've already had them to deal with this situation in a more efficient way. This concern with me, I think I have the right, like all of you, colleagues and colleagues, and all citizens have the right to have this burden of concern, because things are not clear and not transparent. And when it comes to public money, the first rule is transparency. Perhaps this is not the right way to achieve it, as proposed now in this novel, and then other institutions of the Democratic Republic should act to achieve this transparency. And if it is found that all the reasons are objective, we will find that they are objective and that the matter will be cleared. However, if they are subjective and are actually abused here and there is talk of bank abuse, then these abuses must be identified and enforced by the laws of this country, consistently. In this case, as in all cases of abuse, which then have serious consequences for all citizens and for the state of the economy and finance in the country, with all that follows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. I give the floor to Mr Method Dragon, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I think we have adequately covered the various aspects. I have also given basic responses to the views of the delegations and the views of the Members. Only to what Mr Shircelj has now said in the end, what kind of fights are there to talk about? It may be a little dramatic, but it's a copy of a lot of the adjectives that it's about humanizing the control board to fight networks. My thesis was that this could be considered as I said, because institutions want to have an influence in these processes, which is purely legitimate, they want to have an impact and that we need to weigh how to drive these processes in order to achieve the best possible results. I would add that, but Member groups and Members will decide on their conscience, we have made our arguments. If the law goes into further action, we'll be actively involved in the rescue. Regulation needs to be improved, and that is what we agree on. However, careful consideration should be given to whether this is the right time or then the individual solutions proposed by the proposer should be carefully assessed and further improved, if necessary, or what is good enough, so that it can be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the proposer of the Magi. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much. There is not a very large amount of property left in Slovenia. It's kind of 14 billion, roughly, estimated this property of ours, so it's right that we're always talking about it. I tell you that the proposal on the table has been prepared with truly good intentions to increase the transparency of the management of our assets and to make the management of this property even better. We do not want to interfere in any way with the powers of the Government, even less SDH. We just want a more transparent, fairer and more efficient management that will increase the value of our assets. Thank you all for the debate we had today. In light of the above, I am confident that the law will receive support in this consideration. Of course, we will, I hope, work together to find solutions that we can also support as uniformly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Of course, time hasn't run out yet. Is there any other desire to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today after the conclusion of the 26th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 15th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 26. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE – THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMENDATION RELATING TO THE MIGRATION CRISIS AND THE MEASURES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR IT’S MANAGEMENT. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by Group 21. The Member and Members of Parliament with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. In relation to this proposal, the decision is group 21. The Member of Parliament and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to complement the explanation of the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The topic ahead of us is not new, of course, but it has somehow temporarily departed from our consciousness and from reporting to our media. But let me also point out, of course, that as far as I can see the documents, we have tabled our proposal in the last days or the end of March, so that there is also a time distance from the date of the deposit, and to this day it is likely that it has done its job. In opening, I should also say that, of course, the question of resolving the so-called migrant crisis is a broader question, which is a European question and at this point it seems to be slightly less important for Slovenia, because all the tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands who have passed the state border by March this year are somehow behind us, not thanks to the Republic of Slovenia, but more thanks to the answers at the level of Europe or, more simply, thanks to the Republic of Macedonia, which has somehow crossed this path. In fact, the following must be said. We have proposed the adoption of three decisions for this meeting. The first decision was of a informative nature, namely that we held a debate on this and took note of the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to deal with this crisis. The decision was not adopted. That's quite an unusual story. The second decision was as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopt a more restrictive approach in the coming period and implement a more restrictive policy in the reception of migrants and applicants for international protection following the example of some other countries, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland. This decision was not supported by the Committee either. The third conclusion was: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia strengthen its activities immediately to prevent a possible large increase in the number of illegal migrants in case this wave recurs. This decision was not supported by the Committee either. Therefore, even if someone today is going to talk about us discussing nonsense, because we will not take decisions, write this down to yourself and you, because you did not support them, not to the opposition. However, something must be said that we have had a series of meetings of working bodies and meetings of the National Assembly on this subject until 1 September. But the statistics are ruthless, then the government was very little active or nothing and the coalition, and the opposition was very much. The numbers are as follows. The Committee on Home Affairs had six meetings, four of them at the request of the opposition, two meetings at the request of the Government, and that was the adoption of a law such as the Law on International Protection. The Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission had a total of five meetings, which, according to my information, will have much more to say later, given that there is a majority of the opposition, the opposition is also leading this commission, in fact, this Commission was still fully referred to our request, at the request of the opposition, and has also taken a few conclusions, given that the opposition has a majority there, contrary to this Internal Policy Committee, because the coalition has usually overturned these proposals of the opposition's conclusions. The Defence Committee also met twice after my record. Of this, both were sitting at the request of the President, i.e. members of the opposition, so the opposition is once again the one who had an initiative. We had five meetings on this subject in the National Assembly. Of course, I also count the meetings where we adopted the Defence Act, and the International Protection Act for the first time, in short, five meetings, of which four, at the request of the opposition. I would say that if a historian looked at the records of the National Assembly just a few years from now, and hid information from them, who was the coalition and who was the opposition, I don't know what he might have found that it's not really clear what the Government is doing in this regard to make the situation in this country, I will say, more than he is concerned and proposes a solution to the opposition, which is a sad story. I will mention some of these sessions below, not all of them, because time does not allow it, those that seem more important to me. One of the more important meetings was already held on 8, 9. it was for the Commission to oversee the intelligence security services, which in fact led the Commission to request a meeting of the National Assembly on the subject. 23. 9. This meeting was the agenda item of the Report on the identified security aspects of the current refugee crisis and illegal migration. It must be said that at that meeting we have just heard about the humanitarian crisis, about how ugly Orban sets up fences, that we will not do so, how we will otherwise manage this situation, to agree with Croats and similar government fairy tales, which of course have not come true. There were still a few meetings later. For example, it was an interesting session, if you remember, the Defence Act, when we discussed and adopted nothing for hours. They passed a law that didn't have to be adopted, because anyway, the Defence Act had all the grounds for the military to help the police at the border. One such meeting was also the famous one that was first held by the President of the National Assembly, after not knowing how many years, if any president has ever done so. The President of the State then put – does not belong to my political option, but I have to be objective – he put terminology in his place for the first time. And since then, we've been talking no longer about refugees, but we've been using the terminology that he set up at the time, which, of course, was real. At that time he also set up some important things that, of course, only the Government and not the opposition can do, but at that meeting all the conclusions were rejected as a result of the previous committee on the subject. Of course, we were also in opposition to those who were the first to propose the International Protection Act at the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, where, as one of the last in Europe, we would adapt the situation to the field. The coalition turned it down. Later, a law was passed, namely, a law with the same name, which still left the door quite open, where there is still a considerable welcome for asylum seekers or international protection. Of course, the following must be said in this regard. Look, we can ask ourselves today if this whole situation is over. It's kind of over for the public. The public has now forgotten that. In recent days, the government has again imported every day some asylum-seekers' contingent following the Brussels agreements. However, I am confident that what happened last year in this area in Europe will have far-reaching consequences for Europe as a whole, not only from a security point of view, but also from all other aspects. Of course, then something has to be said that through Slovenia during this period, 477 thousand 791 people went through the official data at the time of 20. Ten. 2015 to 11. 3. 2016, in short, almost half a million people. Almost half a million people. In the time before, and this is very important, I stress, this is very important, in the time before 20. 10. And we don't even have any records, so we don't even know how many people went through the country. Of course, that's a pretty big problem, and the security problem is, if a couple of tens of thousands of people go over the border, you don't know who they are. That's one. Write it down, 16. Ten to 20. Last year, the State of the Republic of Slovenia does not have records on this subject. After 11 o'clock. 3. When Macedonia has done what it has done and when agreements have been made at the EU-Turkey level, these figures may seem less important, because they are also, of course, significantly smaller. But we still have about 350 to 450 people in our asylum home or its expositions. The numbers change from day to day, not only because of any possible rejection of these people, but mainly because these people can move freely under the law and, of course, leave the asylum home and its exposures and probably move forward towards Austria and Germany. Let me just draw your attention to one more very important matter. See, when we received these people in Bosnia, Croatia during the war, their age and gender structure was completely different from what we have today. At the time, there were about 70,000 people in Slovenia, if I recall correctly. They were the "real kind" of refugees. In fact, why? Because they were kids because they were men over 60 and they were women. Males between 18 and 60 years of age were practically absent. This is one true reflection of a state of war and some real consequence. Because, of course, men between the ages of 18 and 60 were at home involved in the war. Now that's not the case. Look, we're up to 11. 3. You will accept, you will not believe, 285,000 920 men and 132 thousand 497 women. Here's the situation more than 1:2. But if you look at the age structure in men, you'll find that those between the ages of 18 and, say, 60 years are in the vast majority. For those over 60 years of age, there are fewer or slightly more than 3,000. What does that mean? This means that the largest number of these people who came through Slovenia is that they are younger men. So they're not refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, it won't work. It won't work. These are mostly economic migrants. If you read the latest figures published by foreign media, especially German media, you will be surprised to find that unfortunately, too, they are only now finding some reality in this area, which they themselves have cooked. But forward, two sentences to conclude. We would like to see no such decision taken because today the State of the Republic of Slovenia is no longer able to bring its policy in this area closer to that pursued by the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland. To all those who will be told that these countries are governed by a policy that is not in accordance with international agreements, first answer the question why this is so. They have capable governments, that's the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. On 4 May, the proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the president of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the report to the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u118	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Hello, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 20th session. 5. 2016 as a parent working body, the proposal for a recommendation on the migration crisis and the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to manage it submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The members of the Committee were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government. On behalf of the applicant, an additional explanation was submitted by the representative of the magi. Branko Grims stressed first that the current migrant crisis, despite the recent arrest of the Western Balkan refugee route at the Macedonian border, is far from over. It was both critical of the indecisive nature of the European institutions in solving the problem and of the content of the recent EU agreement with Turkey on limiting the flow of refugees to Greece. It does not believe in multicultural Europe and underlines the responsibility of those who have invited migrants. It is time for new, timely guidance in the field of migration policy, which must, in particular, take into account our real capacities, and in no way must the fundamental human right to personal security be forgotten here. Minister of the Interior Vesna Györkös Žnidar explained that all measures taken so far by the Government were intended to address the issue of mass migration in a comprehensive manner, taking into account security aspects and the integrity and administrative capacity of the competent services. It is true that in the past mistakes have been made in this area, but never on the Slovenian side. The decisions of the Slovenian authorities have never been of such a nature as to alter the structure of the migratory flow in any way and have always been subject to the pursuit of our national interests. In the future, they will not allow any country to recover its possible missed solutions at our expense. In the debate, members of a committee of opposition parliamentary groups reiterated the evidence that the Republic of Slovenia had not implemented the Schengen Borders regime at its external borders for a long time. They also question the integration of migrants into European society. They also drew attention to the issue of foreign fighters and to a number of strangers in Turkish-Macedonian politics in the near future. They demand a stronger policy in the field of migration and integration, and in particular that the Republic of Slovenia oppose the Brussels dictatorship on several occasions. However, a number of coalition MPs have stressed that the Government has acted prudently in controlling the migratory flow, despite the high-priced resources it has so far, since more than 90% of the Slovenian population has not felt the consequences of it at all, even though it has seen it. The sowing of fear of migrants is not in place, for it is not excluded that any of us will never again find ourselves in circumstances that will force him to leave his home. Therefore, it is important to be patient, to be able to compromise and to stress the humanitarian aspect. The Republic of Slovenia is still safe, if not even one of the safest countries. In accordance with Articles 128 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all points of the proposal together and did not adopt them. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation on the migration crisis and the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to control it on the home working body had been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Boštjan Šefić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u120	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! In opening, I should like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has addressed migration in a comprehensive manner, while taking into account the recommendations of the National Assembly at all times and taking into account the element of solidarity and humanitarianism when dealing with migration. We have always stressed that this is not an isolated concept. The government reacted soberly, proportionately and reliably and appropriately adapted all measures, both national and international, to the fact that the migration flow was under control that it was controlled to ensure maximum security for the people of Slovenia, even more so, so far the vast majority of the population of Slovenia had not felt the migratory wave. Therefore, in the past period, a lot of efforts have been made to implement all the measures that have proved successful, and the recommendations on the migration crisis and measures to manage it have been somewhat misleading in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, leading to the conclusion that the migration situation should be left to chance and seduction. Therefore, I cannot help but feel that the applicants want to create a feeling that the Government has been inactive, which would give rise to additional concern among the people of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this does not contribute to security. Last but not least, I must stress that the Government has respected the decision of the Committee on Internal Affairs, Public Administration and Local Government of 1 September 2015 to treat the current migration crisis as a humanitarian crisis and to comply with European solidarity principles in all procedures. Given the material, financial and human resources capacity of all the state authorities involved in managing the migrant situation and whose activities have been geared towards effective action in the transition of a large number of migrants, with particular attention to security in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government therefore considers that the mass arrival of migrants has been very well prepared. Cooperation between state authorities, municipalities and non-governmental, foreign and domestic organisations has also been extremely constructive, which lays good foundations for the possible management of similar situations. Slovenia, as a member of the Schengen area, has been implementing the Schengen acquis all the time and thus the provisions on border crossing, taking into account the specific circumstances which led to a significantly increased volume of migration. In contrast, the identified shortcomings were addressed within the framework of the human resources, material and financial capabilities given. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has always been active in the field of international protection. With the implementation of the new Law on International Protection, some procedural innovations have been adopted, allowing for faster and more effective international protection procedures, mainly in terms of preventing abuses. The law also limits the possibility of re-application. In February 2016, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also adopted a decree establishing a list of safe countries of origin to which it listed twelve countries. The fight against migration is the result of many international meetings of high-level representatives of affected countries and Member States of the European Union, various regional initiatives, many operational meetings of interior ministries, police representatives and other security authorities, for which the Republic of Slovenia has given its first initiative. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, is also the initiator of Macedonia's assistance plan as a complementary agreement with Turkey and assistance to Greece, which has proved to be one of the key to halting the crossings of the Western Balkan migration route. Slovenia has also been actively monitoring and participating in discussions on measures at European Union level following the fight against migration across the Western Balkans, both as regards the necessary legislative changes and the implementation of the European Union-Turkey Agreement. In doing so, Slovenia also monitors migration trends at the daily level in the regions of origin and countries of transit. I would also like to point out that Austria has never seen Slovenia as a problem, but always as part of the solution, as the letters of both internal ministers also prove. Due to the knowledge of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the massive arrival of migrants through the Republic of Slovenia can be repeated, the green border is still protected by 200 members of the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u122	To all gathered on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, a very nice greeting! The topic we are talking about today would certainly deserve to be completed by an appropriate vote. With conclusions, either as we have suggested, or with any other, let us hope for even better conclusions if the ruling coalition would allow this to happen. But the ruling coalition rather destroyed the conclusions, but it did not propose any solution if everything is under control. Oh, run! Just yesterday, a plane went down. This plane started in Europe, Europe, Paris. And in case you haven't noticed, no one has reported anything wrong with this plane. Suddenly he fell. On my own. Come on! Anyone who knows modern airplanes knows they're gonna let the equipment know if there's anything wrong with the technique. And if you don't tell the pilot that something's wrong and the plane crashed, then the answer is one thing — terrorist action. This can be packed by the competent authorities in one way or another, the media can reverse it, but this is the only rational answer. It's like interesting, scary, but unfortunately for real. Let me say that for one plane of the same company from the same end of time a few years ago, investigators wrote down that they crashed the plane of the pilot themselves, planned. This was then completely pushed under the table. They all denied it, but they didn't. Well, for that later event of the day that the German pilot was involved, it was the first time that it was officially heard that that was happening. Well, in this case, it's not hard to guess what it was about. Given that the launch of a high-velocity missile is very difficult to take into account, since it is the Mediterranean, where there is still and even military infrastructure, probably the only logical answer is that someone has sifted a hellish device, probably with a cell phone or a computer, already at the airport. And now we're there, ladies and gentlemen. What does Europe do to itself, and what does Slovenia do to itself? For this is what is really the theme of today's agenda. This is much more important than the previous point where the unknown interest was that we talked about Slovenian holding hours. It depends on the government anyway, because that's how it works in practice, if you're packing one way or another. But here we are talking about the fate of Europe, about what Europe, what civilization, if in culture, our children will live in. This is what we are really talking about, and this is what Europe is avoiding as the devil of the cross, and unfortunately the ruling coalition probably knows why. The biggest manipulation that this spring media has caused to the naive people on the sunny side of the Alps is that the migration crisis has already been successfully completed and there is no longer any danger. Come on! In fact, nothing is completely solved. You'll see what else is going to happen in the next few months. How interesting it will be to watch the football championship in France. I'm very afraid that in front of empty stands or worse. What really caused this situation? The greatest social engineering since the collapse of three-year-old evil, fascism, Nazism and communism has really only started well. The largest social engineering activity called migrant activity, not only when talking about these illegal migrants, but also about all the migrants who have come to Europe and where Europe has very strange criteria. The artificial migration crisis that we witnessed last year and it is still going on, is still coming to Italy every day 2 000 500 to 3 000 migrants, and it is still going on in other channels in Europe. And she's still kind of up to date. This is, if called by the right expression, in fact social engineering, the greatest since the collapse of three-day evil, fascism, Nazism and communism, which, if realized, will lead to the collapse, destruction on the handover of Christianity and the enlightenment of a legitimate democratic Europe, all under the cover of false humanism, which then causes people to die. In Europe, double criteria and false humanism in the case of Ukraine have become very sad. Ukraine has experienced a real attack, in fact a war, because this Europe has let it down. First she gave false hopes, false signals, then she let her down. There's been a war. Virtually all refugees, with the honorable exception of the countries of the Visegraj Group led by Poland, Europe has sent them back to war, denied them asylum. And these are people who are our neighbours, who have the same culture, the same history, even a very tragic history, if I are to mention only a permanent holodome with 6 million dead on behalf of another social engineer. However, migrants from Africa and Arabia are newly seeking to distribute European institutions in the form of quotas, by force, you will not believe what is at risk of punishment, it is no longer voluntary aid, it is now a threat of punishment. According to Commission forecasts, for every migrant one country will reject, if allocated, this country should pay, believe it or not, 250 000 euros in fines. For 4,000 rejected migrants, the country will pay a billion euro to the European Union for its incapacity. Awesome, I have to say. Europe is really working on its end. Well, of course, unfortunately, the stallion to all those who are to blame for this situation was also largely held by the Slovenian government, out of naivety, which is obviously still present, that in the end I do not know who will be grateful for it. No one will be grateful. Here in Europe, everyone is already saving himself and Europe is changing. Action gives birth to a reaction and goes in a direction that no one really dared but happens. The forces that tear Europe apart are gaining strength. Referendums on the departure of individual countries from the European Union are being prepared. They win completely different policies, and that doesn't sober anyone. This Sunday you will have an election in Austria, for the first time in history will be the total defeat of an eternal ruling coalition, black and red, total defeat, has already been done here. On Sunday, a freeman named Hofer will be elected, a man who says he carries a gun with him all the time. That's how things have changed, ladies and gentlemen, if stupidity is done, and if things don't go in the right direction. And the consequences of the illegal behaviour of the Slovenian government are already here, and now everyone is quite agreeing. Listen, after almost a decade, when we were able to go across the border to Austria, wherever we wanted, without any problem, the borders were completely open, now we have to stop again, eventually show the documents, for a while it was even sharper, it was still necessary to open the cars. At least now this is temporarily abandoned, but in addition to unpleasantness, it also consumes a lot of time, especially trucks and buses being scrutinized, so larger vehicles, and therefore kilometers. Take a look in front of Caravanka's tunnel, almost every day there are still, hours and hours of trucks. But, ladies and gentlemen, time is money, it costs money. Ask entrepreneurs how much they are now costing, and companies in Slovenia still have additional costs, with already worse economic growth forecasts, because, of course, these companies are still in an additional debt. And the government is also preparing extra taxes, extra taxes, all for migrants. Isn't it a tragedy, a parody, an absurd thing, and, excuse me, an endless mess that this government finds 300 million in the same breath to buy election votes to Jankovic, that this government will find 123 million euros without a problem for migrants, but it won't find 46 million for the Slovenian Army to at least defend us, and it's a pillar of statehood? This is a matter of values. And if anyone says so, social security is important. Come on, what's the endgame? During the same week the Government called for housing and rental capacity for migrants, we were able to read about cases where two children were thrown out of their mother's apartment and how they were robbed of two poor people who had cancer and even carried one of the medical appliances in this rubble. Sorry, this is with the social state and Slovenia is supposed to be a social state, but this is stated in Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, which has absolutely nothing in common. And shame be that government and coalition that does that. This has nothing to do with the values on which this Slovenian country was established. At least this has proved very clear in this crisis and may have opened someone’s eyes. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is crystal clear to me why you did not propose any decision on your own, and you did not want to accept ours. Because we should talk about these problems, about this real state of your policy. Any normal government would accept an offer coming from the opposition in such a situation. We have proposed a very simple solution to further support this government, to you, when you go into negotiations with Brussels, to make it easier to exercise Slovenian interests, to go to a referendum and give people the opportunity to say, if at all, whom they want to let into their home. Slovenia is the home of all of us, Slovenia is the home of all of us who are its citizens and its citizens. And whoever's at home has all the right, and the only one has that right to decide if he will and who he will let into his own home. But the ruling coalition firmly rejected this at the suggestion of its government. That says a lot. At the same time, he boasts, and we have just heard how everything is under control, how exactly it is as she planned, and how there is no problem. Come on, what if I say that the referendum on people saying themselves, if and to whom they want to go to their home, was rejected by the government under the leadership of the same Dr Cerar, who is exactly one year ago, I quote, and I also quote, when he advocated the quota system, that the quota system for Slovenia is great, because according to the criteria that Slovenia will accept most, I quote, "15 to 20 migrants". If you don't believe me, go look back. I think the date of April 23rd was last year. Do you need a comment? There will now be 50 migrants per month under quotas. In the quota system, I argued in front of him all my own, everyone else, everything. Because I said, look, it is clear exactly how this will end with incompetent European bureaucrats. It will go on forever and this quota system will never end. It'll be just one mechanism once it's established, it'll spread to everything. But at the time, many believed Dr. Cerar, for after all, you must believe in such crucial matters. A lie is an immortal soul of communism, they said. Sometimes it's naive. But I'm sorry, there's no naivety in international politics, and there can't be any room, because that means the end of a country. Well, where are the tops of 15 to 20 now, but specifically, he was talking about number 16, if you want? Where are they now? Now we're going to get 800 of them all together, first 567, then a good 200 in the later shift from abroad, if we move forward with this quota, then of course these quotas will get tightened. For what did the European Commission predict if you missed? It announced that it would reshape the quota system so that those countries that had so far adopted fewer migrants would be significantly more burdened because they were not the target country of the migratory flow. Did anyone recognize Slovenia in this regard if it did? Well, okay, yeah. This means that, of course, the quotas for Slovenia will increase significantly and this will be threatened with €250,000 in fines for everyone who will be rejected by Slovenia. This is what the European Union is currently preparing because it is unable to protect external borders. Why am I saying that the problem is not solved? That's the point of the problem. What's Churchill's maxim? Churchill said that there is only one country and an international community capable of protecting its external borders. Pika. After this maximum there is neither the European Union nor Slovenia at this time, but it could exist if, of course, we had a normal government that would not give money to buy electoral votes, as I mentioned earlier, but would have found the 46 million and something else for the Slovenian Army, strengthened it and sent it into a function that this one is undoubtedly able to perform. If the government would, of course. It's just a question of wanting. And where exactly is the trap of this story? Look, Europe has gone to negotiate with Turkey. Turkey is not, like Greece, an integral part of the solution, but is an integral part of the problem, ladies and gentlemen. Let us listen a little once, however, to what Mr Erdogan has to say. What is meant by the phrases I quote that Turkey is no longer interested in joining the European Union, but that it will submit it and that it will be at the head of the victorious Islamic Council? I heard that myself when I was in Turkey, and it was written. What does it mean to say that Islam, if true Islam, is always radical? What does it mean that they are preparing changes to the Constitution by which they intend to enforce Sharia law? At that time, Europe is happy to be philosophical about the suspension of visas. If Europe opens borders without being met, but consistently, all the criteria, as Europe has always set them, will be the biggest and last mistake in the history of Europe. Above all, Europe will have to find an apparatus in the central institutions to protect its borders. The apparatus, which is called cojones in the Mexican language, is what is currently missing from European institutions, making the matter ineffective. And to argue that the Balkan route is closed, at this point – yes. And it is tragic that the Macedonians, whom Greece and through it, has been making fun of Europe for years now and they are now defending the existence of Europe, if you want. But in Macedonia, they have a problem called elections, ladies and gentlemen, I warn you. There have now been some very strange political events in Macedonia, if I am diplomatic, one of them has also been wronged by their president with some kind of exemption, which has greatly raised tensions. The result is that the elections are called, but only one party has been announced and the question is what will get out there. However, if the current right government falls in Macedonia, the other parties have already, leftists have already announced that the borders will be reopened, and then the end of this praise will be that the Balkan road is closed. That can change overnight. This should be taken into account in advance. And even if you don't, now the problem is going to be a constant revenue from quotas, which is going to be real, which is going to mean that these people are here, and they're unverified. They will be checked later, but with this verification, forgive me, also as President of the Commission for Security and Intelligence Control, I warn you that there is a very big problem. Believe me, I said that very diplomatically. That is the only thing we can count on is what that migrant said out loud when they asked him if you would stay in Slovenia because Slovenia is so beautiful, and he said: “Slovenia, her, Lenin, Marx, red star, ew, I am going ahead!” So, this is the only comparative advantage Slovenia has at this point, but relying on it, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, is on a short track. The ideological approach of the left, which is at this moment destroying all of Europe, is indeed manic self-accusation, as we have also heard at the meetings of the working bodies and also in the joint meetings of this National Assembly, if we do not know what we owe the migrants, because that Europe has caused them no injustice and that Slovenia has led them to it. Sorry, Slovenia owes no one anything, it has done no harm to anyone, it has helped many times, it has also helped true refugees from neighbouring Bosnia, when there was a war in the Balkans, we had $70,000 here, and there were no problems, because of course they were real refugees, they were mostly mothers with children. And when the war was over, they came back. Those of us today recognize that they do not intend to return. And I would remind you, for the first time, when I talked about these people, that they were not refugees under international law, how I was being discredited. Then came another occasional lawyer, who is sometimes right, and sometimes also sells his right for small couples, then some journalists reported with delight: Oh, how did he do it? Yeah, come on, come on. Now let's take a look at this. What happened now? It is now even the official position of the United Nations, ladies and gentlemen, if you want, specifically, the Director-General of the United Nations Office in Geneva and their Murller, that there are no people coming to Europe who are fleeing from war. That's right, they're not refugees. Are you going to say now that the UN is a fascist organization, those left-wing people that you see very briefly? I'd like to hear your comment now. For what he said is the same old truth that every refugee is a migrant, but not every migrant is a refugee. And in Europe come those who are looking for material benefits for themselves, for their families, looking for money, cheap profits and so on, and so on, ladies and gentlemen, economic migrants, that is something else. This has nothing to do with the escape. Refugees were the ones from Ukraine. And that's why I keep saying that it's a fake social thing, that it's fake humanism, which has also been revealed in Slovenia. We've seen covert guys over there in the square with sticks in their hands and face-to-face, apparently ready for violence, for refugees, as they call it, from Arabia and Africa. Did you happen to see these same people, all from Kučan to, if you like, the president of the SWIZ union, and some other MP was in between, and Mrs. Fajon's, too, did you see them stand for refugees from Ukraine, for real refugees? But you didn't see them, no. This is because they are so, if necessary, so to speak, they have some political interest, but of course this has nothing to do with humanism anymore. It's called politics. And that's the problem with the whole story. That is why time and question is now opening up when we need to ask ourselves what kind of Europe we want. And if someone tells me, because I'm always talking about left and left, that they're destroying someone else's role, you know, Informative Mitglieder, an information associate, as it was called at Stasi's East Name, Erika was also a coworker of Stasi. If you don't know who it is, type it out on Youtube, and everything will come to your attention, and suddenly things will become so logical. It will suddenly turn out that anything historic is happening in Europe and that it is terribly damaging to someone to have people from the previous regime, including communism or socialism. If you want, IM Erika in the European framework or Mr Sekolec in the Slovenian framework when it comes to negotiations with Croatia. By the way, he's gone a little mysterious now, as I was able to hear last time, but that's just by the way. If we go back to the problem we're facing. The question is what Europe will be like. I say that Europe must be safe, that Europe must be a country of prosperity, and that Europe as a whole, and Slovenia in particular. And that everyone in Slovenia has what I've been saying since day one, and I keep saying that, and that should be the point where we all agree, but we're not, unfortunately. Everyone, every citizen, every citizen has the right to security, every child, every woman, everyone has the right to a consistent respect for personal integrity. And that's why you have to think in advance not then you have to face what I mentioned again and again, the self-incrimination that appears as total absurdity, and you'll see that now it's going to turn again, and in the summer it will happen again, because something will happen again, and then it will probably fall again when we're in the fall. You know, history repeats itself. With the big pump opened today the top of the mosque there, the mosque in Ljubljana, and this is offered as if I do not know what achievement. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, this is a foreigner who does not belong in this space, not architecturally or historically. The great knights of Slovenia, such as Adam Ravbar and all the other knights who stopped the Turks, are now turning up in the sky as small fans, for that is Europe, because it was able to defend itself against radical Islam. That's all that was forgotten. But, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Because they didn't forget it. Here's the problem, because we're dealing with things that the vast majority doesn't even know. Does anyone know when the twins were broken? You'll say, yes, of course, 11. September 9th, 11th. Or do you think it was a random date? No, ladies and gentlemen, that was a date that was extremely important for European history and that was almost not taught in Slovenian education as well as in independence. Average schoolboy in Slovenia, if you ask him who Mr. Dernovšek is – Rocket or what happened 9. 11, he'll have no idea. But that's what you need to know, Mr. Drnovšek shot down two helicopters, one of them just before Igo's rocketization, would have been hundreds of dead by then. But no one knows about this in Slovenian education, they have quite another credit, which is Slovenian education, brainwashing. It's just like the nine. 11. Who knows what happened then? At that time, ladies and gentlemen, in 1683 Jan Sobieski arrived with the Polish army, and at the last moment, when the wall had already been demolished and the final attack was being prepared, he saved Vienna. And that was the greatest defeat of the Muslim army on the soil of Europe in history. One day there were 120,000 dead. Since it was with the cockroaches, they were so heavily chained at the time that even the bullets did not penetrate their armor, they pushed literally the Janists or the entire Muslim army into the Danube. What's left is panicking. And that's why Europe is like, if it wasn't for half a month back there, there would be other people standing here talking about Sharia law. And it has been forgotten, but they have not forgotten, for Islam teaches that the whole world is divided into a world of peace, where there is only one where there is sharia law, but all else is war. And for them, the war is still going on. So they talk about cruisers, so they use such concepts. Europe does not want to understand what it is dealing with. And it needlessly puts herself in a terrible danger, essentially destroying herself. But that's what you need to know. Jan Sobieski is certainly the main fan because of what is happening in Europe now, and that is what I must say. Europe is ahead of big decisions, Slovenia too. Things change and they will. In America, Trump will be elected, in neighbouring Austria will be elected Hofer, it will be Sunday, Trump will be in a bad year, he will take over the leadership of America, and someone else, I hope, will soon be out of the position he's in, and I'll leave that to your imagination, because the sum of all these three circumstances is so unfortunate for Europe, but until then it has to be sustained. And you have to endure it in such a way that you don't make things irreparable. It is also necessary to know that all this nonsense costs enormously. You may also recall how you yourself said that those who are coming are a new economic opportunity for Europe and for Slovenia that surgeons, astrophysicists are coming. Anybody else remember that? Let us take a little look at the literal notes behind and what writings in the public media. Now don't talk about it anymore, but no. However, the Germans admit through their teeth that they will have €106 billion net damage only in a year due to migrants and the wrong policies of Mrs Angela Merkel. We'll have net damage of 123 million. Which is an awful lot. But interestingly, once again, 123 million for migrants is not a problem, but 46 million for the Slovenian Army is an insurmountable problem, and that is not found. Interesting logic is if someone is looking for political benefits and then by the way another mayor of one city 300 million – this is universal – so that they open one minaret, which is by the way financed by money from the country, which is at, if I speak again as the Chairman of the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, at the top of the list of those who finance some very strange societies called tourism. That's a pretty awkward thing to say. And I'm very interested in whether anyone in the government is serious about this, and they're thinking about what it means in terms of perspective. Do you really think people are going to give money and then they're not going to pursue any other interests? They won't want to have a political influence, they won't want to have control over what's going to happen there and learn. Does anyone believe that? Let him raise his hand. I'd like to see him. Well, nice, at least no one raised their hand, thank you. Slovenia is part of Europe, it has a European tradition. He told the whole truth at the time – we had a little chat before saying another part of the truth – Mr. German of the SD, when he said a historical sentence, then the whole side looked at him badly when he said, "Will Slovenia remain founded on Christian tradition or will Europe no longer?" That's the whole truth. This is a matter of values. And Sharia, you must know, is incompatible with democracy. Even they teach themselves that transition to Sharia is not possible on a democratic path. Even if he's not allowed on a democratic path, that's even sharper. But no one knows that either. Then I hear a lot of times that everyone says they have good intentions. Come on. And then I ask again and again if anyone knows what that is. It's a lie order. A true Muslim must lie if he speaks to a non-Muslim. So long, I won't be too long. As we have a command in the Scriptures, do not lie, they have a command to lie. And that's why it can be a subject of very serious naivety if you don't know it. Or if you're pretending you don't know. You're not gonna believe that I learned about Sharia law from Dr. Cerar. Exactly the same Dr Ceraru, who is today the president of the Slovenian government. And I'm done with 10. So he knows what this is all about. And if he acts naively, he certainly does because he is forced to do so by the coalition or has his own computer at the same time. This, ladies and gentlemen, is all different aspects of what we are facing now. And whenever we open this subject up, we listen again, even if one crime happens in the middle of it: "You know, that's just because people radicalized, because there's nothing wrong with it, little Europe is to blame, because I don't know what it did to anyone." I say again that I don't agree to this and I'll never agree to it. We haven't done anything wrong to anyone. Slovenia was the most benevolent, having adopted 200,000 new citizens after its independence. You will not find a country in Europe that will adopt 10% of the new citizens after its independence. You won't find her. Slovenia has survived more than 70,000 true refugees and refugees when the war was in the Balkans. And we've never done anything wrong to anyone, ever. And whoever comes with such a thesis as this is now Europe I don't know who owes it to, and therefore I don't know what to open the door and what to accept, who want it in, forgive them for those, not only rejecting them as a man and as a politician, but for those in Gorenjska we have a very good institution, which is located in a village called Begunje. There is no reason for such self-incrimination; there must be no room. Even if there are no special conclusions today, I can take at least one opportunity. The days and times are coming when we will celebrate victory over the red star in the war for Slovenia. A time we can rightly be proud of. Not the time of self-incrimination, but the time of pride, the time of victory. And honest congratulations on that day.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u123	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u124	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present to you the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for a recommendation on the migration crisis and the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to manage it. On 1 April, the SDS Group tabled a proposal for an act that we have today on the parliamentary benches, which again attempts to cast doubts on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia about the unwillingness of the migrant or refugee crisis. At the April regular meeting of the National Assembly, at which we discussed the subject again, it was quite clear that despite some of the problems, the Government had successfully solved the problems related to the refugee wave. Although almost half a million people crossed Slovenia, the majority did not even feel the migratory flow. There were also no serious security complications, nor were the safety of the inhabitants and of the refugees finally compromised. As we have said many times in the Desus Group, it is also an artificial creation of fear between citizens and citizens. Proposers keep repeating that the migrant wave will continue this year and even increase that Slovenia will become a pocket for migrants. We are always listening to criticism of the situation in the military and the police, and above all that the Government of Migration is not getting the right way. In the opinion of the applicants, because of all the above-mentioned people in the municipalities where the Government intends to establish migrant centres, they are protesting, but it is clear that cooperation between municipalities, NGOs and state authorities is extremely constructive all the time. Finally, Slovenia has not become a migrant pocket, there is no arrival of migrants in Slovenia since 5 March, nor is there any return of migrants from Western Europe. Slovenia is no longer part of the transit route. As the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has already found, the proponents do not even indicate what measures they would like to discuss to address the migration crisis. We are likely to discuss again the alleged passages of terrorists through Slovenia, quotas of applicants for international protection, and this has already been said a lot in the National Assembly. In all procedures, the government is acting in accordance with the European principles of solidarity and the migrant crisis is seen as a humanitarian crisis, while recognizing the importance of national security. Let me recall, such a decision was taken in the National Assembly of September last year and the Government is acting in full compliance with this Decision. Let me repeat what has already been said at the previous meeting, but it is obvious that this needs to be stressed more than once. Slovenia must comply with the European legislation and commitments we have adopted in the European Union. Here I am primarily referring to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, which, together with some other conventions, lays the foundations of the rules of international law and the protection of refugees in the world. Even when this point is being considered, it seems that the proponents prefer to forget about it. Again, we can conclude that this is a political move by the SDS Group in the first place. In view of the above, Members of the Desus Group and Members of Parliament have already rejected the recommendations on the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u125	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u126	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, welcome! You continue to point out that last year the Government did not act properly in the event of the refugee wave and that there are no plans and measures to deal with the migration crisis. In our opinion, the Government has appropriate answers to all four of your recommendations and we will not even summarize them here. On the Government's activities in solving this matter, however, anyone can be consulted on the sides of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police and the Ministry of Public Administration. On these pages, the news of migrants daily is refreshed, and there is also information on how individuals can be helped to address the accommodation capacity of refugees and migrants. There are good people among us who, regardless of their daily policies, will want to help. Migrants, refugees, whatever we call these people coming from different backgrounds, are a fact and we will have to deal with it. In the history of mankind, natural obstacles have not stopped the displacement of nations, so it is misleading to expect any technical obstacles or obstacles to migration flows to be halted. But they will certainly slow them down or redirect them, and they will not stop them. The residents and residents of Slovenia were mostly monitored by the refugee wave through the media, which reported events at the Slovenian border every day. We were also informed daily about what is happening in neighbouring countries and what measures they are taking there. Somewhere more liberal, somewhere more radical. We have certainly also helped the politicians to talk more about this, as we regularly discussed this subject at the home work bodies and at the plenary meetings of the National Assembly. Despite sometimes controversial debates, many of our fellow citizens volunteered to join humanitarian organizations and help to provide for people and to control this half - million - dollar wave of people who have been on our soil for some time. Our assessment is that things have been calming down and regulating in this recent period. We're also informed by the media. Even with the positive stories of local communities that have received or voluntarily accepted these people in their midst. True, these stories usually involve children and adolescents who have been admitted to schools and thus build bridges between different ones. We are all responsible for the successful integration of immigrants into our environment, especially if we are aware that migrants and refugees have been and will not only be there far from the eyes and from the heart, but here in front of our eyes close to our hearts, they are and will be our neighbours, our schoolmates, our coworkers may sometimes be friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u127	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! We're back here. As is practical at each regular session of recent times, the SDS recommendations on the refugee crisis and measures to manage it have come before us. Every month the same applicants make the same recommendations, change the date, change the document number. And that's enough to give the SDS about six hours for its performance. I have a feeling that the applicants have completely lost touch with reality. With the imaginary enemy they see in the refugees, they fight so intensely that even the fact that since March this year, not one refugee has crossed our border has touched them enough. It's like they're lost in a complicated maze of delusions from which they simply can't find a way out. In the manner of Don Quixote in the wave of the right-wing rise, which, based on racism, xenophobia and the promotion of hatred, is spreading across Europe, they are also trying to ride this wave in any way. There is no room for fact in this terrible desire for power, no room for human rights, and even less room for compassion and assistance for those who need it. Thus, we have been witnessing since September of last year the fear, the embodiment of facts, the lies and the feeling that there are extraordinary conditions in Slovenia. The SDS requires urgent action, as the very existence of this country is expected to be compromised. Let's see what the SDS recommends. The first conclusion states that the National Assembly held a debate on the migration crisis and the measures taken by the State to manage it. It is true, we will have a debate, a multi-annual debate and we believe that it is high time that the proponents really get to know the following facts in particular. The borders are closed. In recent months, no fugitive has crossed our border. On all the external borders of the fortress of Europe, burial sites are piled up in the meantime. They're pulling hundreds of bodies out of the sea every day. In refugee camps in Greece, a catastrophic situation prevails. Refugees live in impossible conditions. Increasingly, the victims of organised crime are becoming victims, but the European Union and, of course, Slovenia are not moving this. Instead of solving the humanitarian disaster we are witnessing, she advocated trafficking in human life. The European Union-Turkey agreement is nothing more than this. And senior representatives are already looking for African countries with which to make the same deal. Refugees aren't people anymore. Refugees are just a means of blackmail. For the SDS, there is only a means of attempting to take power. The second decision of the SDS proposes that Slovenia adopt a more restrictive approach and implement a more restrictive policy in adopting migrants and applicants for international protection following the example of some other countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland. I'm sorry, but I really think it's time for you to wake up from this dream. Slovenia has always been a member of the European Union's tail on the rights and conditions for the survival of refugees. By adopting a new law on international protection, we have gone even further than the countries listed. See only statistics, and this statistics from the time when the new, even more restrictive law on international protection has not yet entered into force. Statistics on granted asylums were shameful before the conditions were exacerbated. The percentage of granted applications for international protection was 16,25 % in 2015. This year, this percentage even fell to the disgraceful five. Thus, every 100 applicants receive only 5 adequate protection, in statistics showing that 42% of all who crossed Slovenia, the Syrians and 30% of Afghans. For Slovenia, this is also evident in the country’s security. Last year, 277 people were seeking asylum in Slovenia and only 45 were successful. According to statistics, which is even worse in 2016, only around 25 people will gain protection this year. Since the borders are closed and new applicants are no longer available, the number will probably never change again. But these 25 people are the worst enemies to the SDS. These 25 refugees are the reason why they have repeatedly submitted requests, recommendations, proposals, proposals for a referendum and urgent action. These 25 refugees, according to the SDS, threaten citizens and citizens, state finances and even state sovereignty as such. These 25 refugees represent a security problem of almost unreceptive dimensions. And 25 refugees are simply too few for SDS to limit legislation further. According to statistics, it is clear that further exacerbation is not possible and I do not know exactly how they imagine it. I only hope they are not back on ideas that some of their members have already shared on social networks. By a third decision of the SDS, the Government should immediately step up its activities to prevent a possible major increase in illegal migrants. All these requirements have already been met by the Government. She set up a perennial fence on the border, joined by a panel, sent an army with police powers to the borders, passed asylum legislation which is controversial both from a constitutional and an international perspective, respect for human rights. It agrees with trafficking in human beings, which takes place on the European Union-Turkey route. That Turkey is a mass violator of human rights, of course it does not disturb it. So the government is already fulfilling all their wishes. As a result, it is behind the humanitarian disaster that we are witnessing, as well as the rise in hatred and intolerance. I'm not going to lose words about the last decision because we've talked about this more than too many times. The decision, however, serves no other purpose than unwarranted intimidation of people and the labelling of fugitives as criminals and terrorists. Of course, we will not normally vote on the conclusions today, as usual. They've already been rejected on the parental committee. But as always, you have used the Rules of Procedure this time to ensure your day. And we can conclude from the initial presentation of the applicants that, as in all cases, this time the scenario will be exactly the same. Today, we cannot expect anything but a rerun of all the meetings so far on this subject. The aim of the applicants is clear, promoting a sense of emergency, fostering hatred and inciting the feeling that refugees are threatening citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Farsa and the cheap pear of the Slovenian parliamentary right. In the United Left, we have been opposed to over-emphasizing security risks and needless intimidation of people. Under these excuses, there is nothing but xenophobia and the promotion of hatred. And instead of the government and the coalition preventing it, they're part of it. Over-emphasis on security aspects has been an argument for all measures to date. However, the measures taken were completely flawed. At a time when the Member States of the European Union should respond most decisively and quickly to the refugee crisis, the Government has decided to physically close borders, triggering a wave of political criminalisation of migrants, racism and the creation of divisions. The military was given police powers and supported an agreement between Turkey and the European Union. That the Government does not have problems with the catastrophic situation in Greece and with the massive violation of human rights in Turkey, we can read in its views every Friday on the Committee on European Union Affairs. Not only that, the President of the Government even boasts that he was the initiator of the disputed agreement. Clearly, then, the government is not the solution, but part of the problem. Part of a problem that just doesn't want to understand that it's not an exaggerated security risk. Initially, it was a humanitarian crisis, and today it is clear that it has become a humanitarian disaster because of the wrong measures. The humanitarian disaster that Slovenia has helped create. Slovenia, together with its partners in NATO on the one hand, has been destroying countries from Afghanistan to Syria for 10 years and, on the other hand, is amazed at where this strong wave of refugees came from. People don't just run away from home. They're running away from home because they don't have any other options. And expect us to stop a wave of fugitives without stopping the war they're pursuing is unrealistic. It is a European problem and a European one should also be a solution. The problem is that this European solution is, for the time being, solutions that place full responsibility on Greece and Italy. Solutions that in practice mean trafficking in human beings. Solutions with which refugees are detained in countries that have been proven to be human rights violators. And solutions that in practice mean more deaths each day will only make things worse. Members of the United Left will also be most likely lonely in this opinion today. While the government will be rambling on the shoulder of how good the solutions have been adopted lately, the SDS will most likely adhere to the principles, if I repeat the lies enough times, they will soon become the truth. And in the United Left, we don't think or cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u129	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! I do not know why it is such a problem to discuss an acute European and, of course, a Slovenian issue, a problem, a challenge better said than a refugee-migrating crisis. Everywhere we talk to representatives of foreign countries, foreign delegations, either at home or outside Slovenia, you will admit that this issue is high on the agenda of the talks, namely the refugee-migrant crisis, the challenges of how to solve this problem. It's a problem not a month, not a year, probably a decade. It will soon be a year before we really talk very often about the migration crisis in this national assembly. We argue that not too often, it is a pity that it is always on the proposal of the opposition, because the government is always convinced that it has done everything and everything in this regard to protect the interests of its country and its citizens. We in New Slovenia do not say or criticize all measures, they were good measures, they were effective measures, and the question is always whether they were sufficient measures, including for tomorrow's security. However, despite the fact that the Balkan refugee path is closed today, all questions remain open on this issue, from the financial capacity of our country to the security issue. That the European mechanisms are not working, I would like to remind you of just one example. At the initiative of Slovenia, the EU-Balkan Summit in Brussels was held on Sunday, 25 October 2015, where an agreement was reached on the European Council to get Slovenia to help 440 police officers. I ask you, I ask the Government, which has the exact details of the share of this agreement. I don't know if it's 50%. This shows that the European agreements do not work, do not work, so there is no honesty, some solidarity, but no agreement between us at European level. Of course, there are no different laws that I will talk about later. In New Slovenia we are aware that we will have to accept a number of refugees, especially the most vulnerable groups: families with children, women and minors. Refugees who really need help are really underlining this because, of course, it takes great care. We must accept refugees out of some kind of humanity, those who are actually fleeing the war and, above all, these most vulnerable groups that I have counted. Therefore, we did not oppose their adoption under the agreed relocation scheme. It's all in the name of humanity. Nevertheless, it must be clear to us that the procedures carried out by the Government so far do not provide the conditions for managing the migration crisis, which does not cause major problems in Slovenia at present, but the situation can change very quickly overnight. Let's take a look at some facts. In mid-February this year, the government, together with the other countries along the Balkan migration route, decided that our country would accept a maximum of 580 migrants from then on. This was argued by the fact that only so many can be written down or registered in accordance with the rules. Until then, the Government has absolutely argued that when police officers enter our country, each migrant shall be properly examined and recorded, while applicants for international protection shall be fingerprinted in accordance with the Dublin Regulation. There is a logical question as to how, at all the crossings of our borders, when thousands of migrants crossed the country every day, we carried out registrations and censuses of all in line with the Schengen rules. So for a long time, we did not know who entered our European yard and, of course, also the Slovenian yard, because we, on behalf of the 30 countries of the Schengen area, are implementing the Schengen regime, should 100% implement the Schengen regime at the Slovenian-Croatian border, but we did not know exactly who entered our yard. Therefore, there is further evidence that the Schengen rules of Slovenia have not been implemented correctly and fully and that we have released a large number of people on our territory without any verification and without fingerprinting. So we're talking about illegal migrants, over 330 thousand have crossed our country. Come in. The New Law on International Protection, adopted in March this year, maintained the same level of rights of applicants and the rights of persons with recognised international protection, even more so, the Government has aligned the law with the Foreigners Act, whereby persons with recognised international protection have the right to merge with family members. This is not only a matter of closer family members, which is what the European Directive requires of the Member States of the European Union, but of all other relatives of the applicant, if there is a living community that is essentially similar to the primary family. A very broad concept, a very wide family, maybe even a tribe, all of you, one family. In New Slovenia, we opposed this because our country has not made its asylum policy worse in the light of the recent large-scale migration crisis. In April this year, the government also announced an invitation to rent apartments owned by a natural person. They would include persons who were granted international protection. What about our families? Young families who don't have any real chances of getting their own apartments? For them, last year the Government did not have the hearing to rent apartments or sell them to young people under more favourable conditions. And for migrants, she's willing to give up 23 of her apartments. It's okay, but first, our families. Persons with recognised international protection shall also have, in addition to the right to permanent residence, the right to health and social protection, labour market integration, the right to education and integration procedures. And what amounts are we talking about? On the amount of the monthly net average age pension, this is estimated at EUR 613 in February. So one refugee costs the country more than the average Slovenian pensioner receives. That is why the country has foreseen € 123 million in this year's budget for this purpose. Let us not forget, too, that the issue of migrants is closely linked to the issue of the security of the State and its citizens. Given today's malnutrition of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the police, and the fact that the migrant crisis can re-emerg on an uncontrollable scale, the Government should be aware that, despite the current silence, it must not sleep. Unfortunately, all the opposition's proposals so far have been heard. An example of how our country ensures the safety of its citizens is the case with the Frog. Who doesn't know him? He fought in Syria, trained in Bosnia and Herzegovina and actively sought out Islamist fighters in Italy. But all this evidence isn't enough for us to be worried about like the Italians. The fact is that the work done by the Italians should be carried out in accordance with the law by our country with its intelligence and security service. As we obviously cannot count on an active common European strategy to deal with migration in the future, we are obliged to prepare all the grounds for us to be able to survive a certain number of people with recognised international protection and to provide at the same time sufficient economic and security conditions for our people. For your people. In Novi Slovenija, we supported the recommendation on the parent body. Sorry we weren't enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u131	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u132	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The migration crisis is a complex topic addressed by all the global institutions, from the United Nations, Europol, the European Commission, and it is therefore right that we also address it in Parliament. The question is that the answers we are looking for are not only security, but also economic, they are also political, they are also migration, and other branches of government are involved, so that fusion of answers just forms the right reaction to such a problem. We also need to change the national security system. The basis for such a system is also the police in a new form. In addition to the police, however, other ministries, as well as local self-government and all civil society, must cooperate constructively, as only such a complex system can provide the right answers. We have actively participated in the work, committees, commissions, the Council of State and at the same time have proposed amendments in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Most of the time, we have pointed out that there is a lack of flow of information. This is where the government's weakness feels. There's no real information and it doesn't convey everything he knows. Furthermore, it does not take into account the opposition's proposals. And the worst problem is the under-appreciation of the police. The government is unable to make a deal with the police union. The role of the police is minimised and security privatisation is being considered, which is the worst in the theory of police work. There is no money to participate in the European institutions and the pressure on those who have done the most work in this migrant crisis so far, it is said to be police officers, according to the economy and efficiency, which is why we see stress, overcrowding and mistrust in the leadership of the police. In particular, the role of the media, as elsewhere in Europe, is to be highlighted in the case of a hybrid war in the media and the hiring of pyar communication services instead of presenting real data, has negative effects in society. We need to encourage real investigative journalism and bring real stories about migration to the public, because it is the only way to reach a consensus in society on the reception and inclusion of people in society. To address the problem of migration, we must address it at three levels: countries of origin, transit countries and target countries. Until we resolve the origin of the problem of the interest sphere of corporations, countries, the calming of war situations, we will not break the migratory flow. Slovenia, which is now becoming more targeted than a transit country, is facing new problems. Therefore, the proactive model of work is not the reactive model used by the Government and is delaying with all measures. A proactive model means that we should already be dealing with human trafficking. For when the migratory flow stops, the flow of human trafficking appears. Those who are already in the territory of Slovenia are, of course, trying to get to other countries, because Slovenia does not seem to be interested as a target country. And forcefully, they can't be placed in space. It is about starting to think about secondary crime and all the accompanying effects of the target country. The government does not provide us with information on the costs of migration. We also do not know transparently about the costs of purchasing the wire and to purchase this new fence. It's all very safe. For this reason, we appeal that if the Government wants to manage the situation, it should start providing the right information. Access to information is the most important and sublime warning of the Government's need to reach a consensus on three levels: consensus at local level where migrants are because we are a target country; consensus between the European Union countries and consensus in Parliament between the coalition and the opposition. Because that's the only way we're gonna be able to get out of this migrant crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u133	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u134	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we will be talking again, as we have done so many times since the beginning of migration flows, probably about exactly the same things that we have dealt with many times. On the one hand, we will listen, or we have already listened, to the proponents of this point, who explain to us in the most horrendous ways what migrants and refugees in Europe are doing. They're going to be linked to them, or they're going to be linked to terrorism. These migrants or refugees are shown in the worst possible light. All with the intention of arousing fear. And, of course, there are always calls for the acceptance of migrants or refugees to be rejected, because this goes beyond the capacity of Slovenia, and not only because in the performances of some predecessors, in particular Mr Grims, it was obvious that the elements of the hate speech, Islamophobia, flatulence claim that the Muslim religion commands lying, then the debate on how unacceptable it is to build a mosque in Ljubljana, that it is a foreign, then the great battles against Muslims and so on and so on. In short, I would like to re-emphasize the hate speech at this point. Hate speech in expressing opinions and ideas which, by their nature, are discriminatory, xenophobic, racist, homophobic and similar and are directed and directed at different communities, ethnic, national, religious. Hence, hate speech is based on the belief that some people are inferior because they belong to a particular group because of individual personal circumstances. And, of course, it is a sad fact that we will obviously listen to ourselves today in this debate of this hate speech, more than it would be necessary and appropriate. On the contrary, we reiterate our opposition to this infuriation and falsification of information, and we would like to highlight the actual activities and actions carried out by the Government or the competent ministries. During the second wave, the competent authorities provided and verified and transported half a million refugees and migrants across Slovenia, without jeopardising the safety of them and our citizens. Despite opposition, the Government was prepared and provided all the necessary material, financial and human resources in a timely manner. During the migration crisis, the element of solidarity and humanitarianism was taken into account, as was the conclusion of the Committee on the Interior of 1 September 2015 that the Republic of Slovenia should treat the migration crisis as a humanitarian crisis and act in accordance with European solidarity principles in all procedures. For months before the arrival of the first major groups of migrants into our territory, the government has developed models of different scenarios and measures, which, in view of the actual course of events and through active cooperation with Parliament, local communities and NGOs, have also implemented them. The necessary accommodation capacity has also been developed, and since 2015 the Government has highlighted in particular the larger coordination group first, further under the leadership of the Prime Minister of the Government, the operational working group. It should be stressed that the Government is aware of the problem of migration, that all measures have been taken and implemented in an exemplary manner during an extremely difficult period, and we must all recognise that. The Ministry of the Interior is obliged to take care of the security of citizens and their property through the authority of the police, especially in terms of the awareness of the risks arising from mass migration, so special attention has always been paid to security, not only to the humanitarian and solidarity aspects. The fact is that the security authorities have made maximum efforts to verify migrants. As a full member of the Schengen area, as the Secretary of State said, Slovenia has respected the Schengen acquis throughout the migration crisis. With regard to the more restrictive reception of migrants that the SDS would like to introduce, it should be said that asylum seekers in Slovenia are subject to the Constitution which recognises the rights of asylum to foreign citizens. Slovenia is committed to respect for the Geneva Convention, which requires States parties to recognise international protection for persons who have left their country for persecution or war and is obliged to consider any application for international protection. However, by adopting amendments to the Law on International Protection, some procedural innovations have been introduced which allow for faster and more effective procedures for international protection, mainly in terms of preventing abuses. The new law also limits the possibility of re-applicing asylum applications and establishes border procedures. Furthermore, the Government has adopted a list of safe countries of origin, which it has classified as 12 countries. Of course, because of all these measures, we are now also getting readings from the other extremes. Despite repeated statements by SDS individuals that terrorists in Brussels and Paris have come to Europe with a refugee-migrating flow, the police have never confirmed this information. On the part of the Ministry of the Interior and the Government, we have the assurance that Slovenia will take all possible necessary measures in the future to reduce the possibility of the return of the migration wave and to prevent illegal migration to the European Union. The Slovenian border is therefore still protected by 200 members of the Slovenian Army, police units for the maintenance and establishment of public order and auxiliary police, which will be complemented by a thousand 500 members. Although there are no new arrivals of migrants since the beginning of March, certain locations for the accommodation of migrants are being kept. The fact is that we will not solve the problem of migration in the National Assembly, but will have to solve it at its source, globally, with global players. Migration flows have become our reality, so we must all be aware together and strive to respect agreed democratic values and to work constructively to find answers to current migratory flows while respecting the cultural, ethnic and religious diversity of all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u135	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural? Procedural, Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that the representative of the largest government party has just explained that what I have said does not hold that this is not true, I suggest, Mr President, that at the expense of the National Assembly, which has a special fund for this, you allow the Doctor of Science to study at least a few books and to perform some comparative constitutional law exam with his President, Dr Cerar, to have at least some idea of what he is talking about and not to show the biggest government party a complete ignorance and ignorance of Islam, while at the same time insulting others. It is that pomp and ignorance and arrogance are always connected. The Lord has proved this perfectly now in his performance. And let him really be able to educate himself on at least some basics, so that he has at least a minimum idea of what he's talking about. Because it is sad that people who obviously have no idea what they are talking about, especially when it comes to issues of Islam and inseparably to Islam-related constitutional or legal arrangements and, of course, the fundamental concepts that need to be understood that we can have a serious discussion with this. And then you insult me there, I don't know, with xenophobia, but I don't know what else. Let's do some digging on the Internet first, read the Koran, read a few textbooks. I think Dr. Cerar will be happy to give you his textbooks. And when you're done with the exam, let's come over here and we'll do it again, and then we'll have a serious conversation about what you heard today. Until then, don't show your ignorance because you're ridiculous.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u137	Now, Mr Grimes, this has been procedural. You've used it only and exclusively to insult that someone is less valuable, that someone knows less than you, in which I left you to say things that I also consider to be on the extreme edge of an enemy speech. [[…]] If anyone thinks it's a hate speech, they said it. I never go into the same position. The views are not discussed. We are not even in the stage of discussion, and you are to make a procedural abuse of the position of someone else, at a personal level. This was the position of the SMC Group, not the position of Dr Dragan Matić. And today we've already introduced this, and we've had this. I'm asking you to stay out of this. Gradually, Dr Grims Master, you'll be a doctor one day.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you, again, for your word. See, Mr President, you could, in the framework of your powers, calmly stop Mr Matić, who has been able to tell me everything from the hate speech forward. He was talking about xenophobia, and he was talking about racism, and a lot of those expressions he used, so go look at the magnetogram. This, of course, is extremely offensive, so I answered him in this way. Because it's inappropriate that you don't know something, you honestly show that you have no idea, and then you insult everyone else on that basis. Wait, this goes beyond all limits. And that's why I suggested you let him get his education, so that we can at least talk about it seriously. Because it's sad that we know one thing in the opposition, but apparently they don't know it in the biggest government party. In doing so, the President of the party's largest government is an exceptional expert who knows this area very well. It's just that he obviously wasn't exactly involved in this position that you presented here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u139	But now you've made procedural use of it to discuss it with me. I mean, I really don't understand what was procedural here. Nothing. Yeah, nothing. We can finally get to the debate. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The text is by Dr László Göncz, to be prepared by Mrs Janja Slug and then by Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that maybe it would be the right time for the ball to settle down with all of us. We could probably also look at the whole issue in a way that makes our steps operationally and politically clear, while at the same time making our steps as ideologically less burdensome as possible. It's just like some last-minute reflection. The fact is that the migrant or refugee-migrating crisis has become a constant one, and there is probably not much to discuss. It is only a question of what dimensions we feel or deal with at this time. It is also true that in this context there are also growing dilemmas with regard to quotas, but these quotas are also an integral part of today. To this day, I would not define myself because I believe that this is an explicit, complex issue and perhaps it is not the primary issue of today's debate or intention, which was originally set out when they put forward a proposal to convene this meeting. We must find that, despite all the difficulties, despite the persistence of the said migrant crisis, the burning events at this point are just a little far from us, which does not mean anything and I do not want this to be understood so that we can sleep now. Absolutely not. For security reasons, I believe that those things must indeed be done, those steps which have been supported in one way or another by the Government. Some of them have already been approached by the government. So we should not fall asleep, but, as I have already pointed out, it would not be right for this tension to increase because more calm steps may be needed at this time. In the second part, I would like to speak myself about Europe as such. I certainly understand the European values achieved in a broader context, in some historical context. I find that these values have been very difficult to achieve, including those that we have achieved in the last 20 years or if you want to in the last 10 years. And it is a fact that part of this knowledge must also be safeguarded by consistent compliance with international provisions concerning the Schengen border, as far as other international commitments are concerned. In short, I believe that the issue of the transition of the Schengen border should be implemented explicitly on the basis of international rules. Unfortunately, in the past it was not entirely so, I think, despite everything that Slovenia has been trying here to add with regard to its role and its power some qualitative things, perhaps at the beginning a little more uncertain, but also perhaps a little later, but later some concrete steps have been taken. I am still in favour of supporting all efforts to comply consistently with the provisions relating to the protection of the external Schengen border. Because if that is not the case, then it must be clear to us that Europe is actually losing out. What's happening at some internal borders in Europe today, and I don't want to name any countries on purpose right now, it's wrong and it's partly happening in our neighborhood, so we're practically losing European values. I believe that some moderate policy at this time, but sure and unequivocal, can lead to the most results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u141	Mrs Janja Slug has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mrs Anita Koleš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I must agree with my colleague Matić that we will not, in fact, resolve this issue in this national assembly. The problem of this migration crisis is a broader problem, which must, of course, be solved at source and resolved at European level. As for Slovenia, where I find again; the proposaler wants to show that the Government was not prepared to do practically anything, let me say that the Government has been aware of the integrity of this problem from the beginning and has acted accordingly. The humanitarian aspect has been highlighted at all times, which is also in line with the decision taken in the National Assembly and, of course, the security aspect, i.e. the protection of both migrants and citizens and property. The Government has always reacted proportionately to all developments and has taken precise measures when appropriate and when necessary, and not earlier than the applicant would have wanted. I don't know how many times we've been talking about the same subject, you're repeating one and the same untruths, one and the same dogma, one and the same statements you've been repeating all the time, you're inciting some kind of hatred, you're encouraging some kind of fear. I think that this is certainly not what our mission is and what our mission is, and I also find that you are actually talking about things that are not real. You keep saying that the people who carried out terrorist attacks in Brussels and Paris came across the Balkan route. There's absolutely no proof of your claim. Nothing. This is about as you now claim that there were terrorist attacks in this last plane that disappeared here. I don't know, maybe the visionary, or the psychic, or whatever, I really suggest that you connect with the authorities in Egypt and you tell them what happened, so they don't torture each other and now they're looking into all of this. I must say that what you are saying now, and this implementation of yours has really gone beyond all limits lately. I hope that today's discussions will also give you something to know in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u143	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor, Mrs Anita Koleša and Mr Marko Ferluga are being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When a Russian plane fell down about 14 days ago, they also said they didn't know what it was, and then Russian President Vladimir Putin was in his famous performance, the one played when the intelligence came to him, he was all seriously sitting there, saying, "The plane was thrown down by terrorists." I think it's gonna be the same story here. At that time, we wrote immediately the first day that it was more than obvious that it was a terrorist attack. Otherwise, I hope that it will not turn out here, but I am afraid, according to the videos, that in 2016 the practical plane does not fall down all of a sudden, but not because of any explosion without sending any call for help earlier – it was obviously a surprise – and I believe that, unfortunately, it will prove to be an act of terrorism. However, you have rejected this recommendation, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but if you look at this recommendation, this recommendation does not criticise government policies elsewhere in return, as some have tried to show, but it is a recommendation on how to proceed. This is essential and not to say that the migrant crisis is over, that there are no more migrants in Slovenia, and that we will receive about 700 by the end of the year. It is true that they no longer come illegally because these illegal migrations have somehow, or yes, changed into this legal framework. This is the agreement that the European Union has signed with Erdogan. It's a Trojan horse. No visa liberalisation should be accepted for the Turks; no financial assistance should be given to Turkey. What needs to be done is to send a Navy to the sea to prevent these migrations, as does the Navy and the United States Coast Guard. That's exactly the same principle we should choose. In short, there are military ships and ships of the coast guard, especially there under the sea of Florida, where there are mainly migrants from Puerto Rico, the Bahamas, Cuba, where they are intercepted at sea, but they, instead of us, when we take them back to the European Union, take them back. Because they have a rule once you step on the ground of the United States, you're theirs. And they do this preventively, what Frontex should do, not by doing this – this is really supporting smugglers; what the European Union is doing right now is supporting trafficking in human beings. I do not agree with what my colleague from the United Left said, but the European Union is obviously doing so in a legal way. It does not trade with people, specifically because of the agreement with Turkey, but trade takes place by promoting migration across the sea, by encouraging smugglers, because we do not introduce appropriate restrictive measures. The second part, the second point of the recommendation, is that in the coming period, a more restrictive approach is taken and a more restrictive policy is implemented in the reception of migrants and applicants for international protection following the example of some other countries, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland. The big question will be how the referendum will take place in a good month or what will be the outcome of the referendum in Britain and if Britain emerges from the European Union, it will only cause the snowball to roll. Other countries that disagree with the policy of the European Union, or who disagree with what the European Union is doing, will also be following, as there is virtually no policy in this migration crisis. Slovenia should follow here those countries that have the value of Christianity and which are against socialism, and these are the four countries, the countries of the Multi-Garden Group, where Austria, Slovenia, for example, should be included – those that are already somehow forming this V4+ framework. What is essential to these countries? These countries have treated their citizens responsibly in the crisis and those countries that have not acted responsibly will be cashed by their governments in elections. In Austria, on Sunday, we know how the CDU is in Germany, how it is with the German Chancellor, probably her last term. When I speak to members of the CDU abroad, there is great dissatisfaction with it. So if not, she will have to leave before the next election if the CDU will even want to be a serious party or a serious candidate to lead the government after the next election. If anything, then this migrant crisis has exposed all the glamour and misery of the policies of the left socialist parties, as well as, unfortunately, some of the right ones. In Slovenia, too, the Slovenian Democratic Party was the only parliamentary party that had practically defended the security aspect. You have all talked about a humanitarian aspect, which, of course, is also present, but above all, the humanitarian aspect will be present now because we have reacted inadequately in the past year. Now, women and children will remain outside the borders of the EU, beyond the borders that are closing, some of which are closed. Now these people are going to die because we accepted — just to find — 23,000 or 124 thousand people between 18 and 28 years of age, men and 48 thousand between 28 and 38 years of age. And if we take another 18 thousand 600 between 38 and 48. In short, we've received over 200,000 men capable of fighting. The elderly are few, women, not half of what men are. Because of this wrong policy that we have been leading from the beginning, many will now die either on the road or in Syria. By making recommendations made by the Slovenian Democratic Party on the ground, they are unfortunately not being taken into account. I do not know why it would be necessary to hide in order to determine what the fourth point of the recommendation is to check that the terrorists who carried out terrorist acts in Paris and Brussels are entered into the register of crossings of the Slovenian border and inform the National Assembly of the findings. If you are so sure that these terrorists did not cross Slovenian territory, the government would say yes: We have found that they are not in the records and have clearly said this and is washed of every fault. The third recommendation is to strengthen immediately activities to prevent a possible major increase in legal migrants in the event that a new migratory wave is relaunched. Do you know what I see here above all? Help to Macedonia! Macedonia is a country where wounded police officers are injured daily – the only one here who is Mr Ferluga to me, because we had an excellent conversation with the president of the Macedonian Committee on Home Affairs and the things we have heard there, is worrying. And acting in line with the third point of the recommendation would be without strengthening control at our border, because it is not necessary at the moment, but to immediately send assistance in arms, in the police, in the military, to the Macedonian border. Because it's where Europe defends itself, that's where Schengen defends itself. To thank the Macedonians — no money for any help in the force of life, but to continue the blockades on the part of Greece, which is incompetent or unwilling to solve this issue, which is also one of the creators of this crisis, because it leaves these people uncontrollably across its territory. If anything, let the Slovenian Prime Minister help Macedonia, not by saying he was an instigator, although already in October John Janša suggested that he close himself to close at the Macedonian border. If six, seven prime ministers said to close the border at the Macedonian border, then we would be at least fair enough to send more people to help the Macedonians to help defend this border, not a diverse organisation, and Amnesty International what else I know. Just for closure. It's nice to hear you, colleagues and colleagues, defending these migrants. But you know what I miss – I miss your names and surnames as those citizens and citizens who applied to the government's invitation to offer migrants real estate. Sorry you're not there.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u145	The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I think it's time I called. I'm going to go straight to the debates; otherwise I still miss some of the SMCs, I'm going to save myself some time at the end so that there's nothing left to say. The Secretary of State and many others also point out many times that you have been ordered by the National Assembly or the Internal Policy Committee on 1 September to treat this matter as a humanitarian crisis. I think that this decision has indeed been adopted, but it was adopted on your proposal. The coalition has proposed this matter. I think I supported the decision because it was pretty clear and clear. But when I pressed that button for it, I had something in mind other than what happened next. In fact, you have to be humanitarian, we have to deal with refugees if they can, given that we are not the first country. I will say this: we have to treat those asylum seekers who have reasons for this; these are women, and these are children who have been for over 60 years. The numbers that happened then are something else. We have two thirds and more of the younger men, so to speak, they're essentially defending countries. However, if we add to this – all those who discussed the ethnic composition of these people who went across our borders – but if they add the latest international data, they have been published by the Germans, and they make it very clear that not even all Syrians have the right to protection, but only about one third of the territory. So, my "yes", on September 1st, if yes, I think it was, was aimed at humanitarianism; in short, this country deals with people who deserve it, not economic migrants. To understand each other, not economic migrants, who were the majority. This is what other countries are now finding out. The second thing – I have already said several times, and I will say it again – is that, after the implementation of Mr Kopmeyer, we can submit the same request or a new one tomorrow. Since he hasn't figured it out yet or he's got the wrong sheet again, I don't know. Maybe he had an old note, the one from March or February, I don't know. But I have to tell you again. Mr Cerar is not the trigger for the closure of the Macedonian border. So the president of the National Assembly won't say I'm insulting his political boss, because then I'd say plagiar, and I'd be more polite. The first instigator is sitting right there from me, he wrote it in writing twice; he wrote it in writing once when he did not attend the National Security Council, but he gave a written statement on what was to be done, and it is written in there. But Mr Cerar attacked him, that he spat on the non-state, that he — excuse me — took his idea, went to Brussels and sold it. Now you're talking about that. Well, that's not it. Okay. There's a serious problem with Mr. Kompmeyer. I really don't know how to argue with him, because now I don't know, he's not here. He may have had a reminder from March or January. I don't know, it's also possible because it's already happened for the House of State. But he's still talking about the refugee crisis. Grims has no idea how many times he has explained that the fugitive is the one fleeing his country from such and such reasons to the first safe country, and this is not Slovenia. This isn't Slovenia. So he can't talk about the refugee crisis, but he can talk about the migrant crisis, i.e. the economic-migrating crisis, mostly. Now to note that Slovenia is no longer part of this route. Of course, it is no longer part of this route, but not thanks to our government, but thanks to Macedonia. I was just talking to people who know the Macedonian police today, and I was at lunch with them, and we exchanged views on how Macedonia could close this border. It is the people who established the Slovenian Schengen border. And they say that Macedonia has slightly more police officers than Slovenia. If Slovenia has 8,000 500 of them there or how close the number is now, maybe 9,000, I don't know, given that employment is now possible, then Macedonia has about 11,000, that's what these people have told me, but Macedonia has closed the border. If anyone in the coalition or the Secretary of State or his co-worker can tell me why Macedonia could have done this and not Slovenia on October 17th, I will be very pleased. So why could Macedonia close this border practically with the same number of police officers as Slovenia and Slovenia did not? Maybe Mr. Ferruga, there'll be another one, maybe this answer will come. Above all, the Secretary of State. In fact, my answer is relatively clear: because she didn't want to, and because she wasn't ready. Because if it were ready, if the border were closed, and if we started all over Europe on 1 October with large speakers, predicting that Slovenia would not accept the refugee wave, which would turn from Hungary to us, that is, the migration wave — and I am mistaken myself — then it would not turn to us. Since that would most likely concern the Croats, and the Serbs concerned the Macedonians, the Macedonians would have done what they were then. But Slovenia 17. She didn't want to do it, and she wasn't ready for it. But not for the police, to be clear, the police here are no problem. This has not happened because of the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And of course today we are saying that there is no more part of this path – yes, thanks to Macedonia! I mean, Macedonia needs to thank the whole of Europe, not just Slovenia. He is still talking about the humanitarian crisis and there are four representatives of Desus, and I hope that Mr Kopmayer will be informed. It's not a humanitarian crisis, who's honking again!? 280 thousand younger men are not a humanitarian crisis, but an economic migration wave. Most of the time, we're on the clear side. We can talk about a small number of people who could be in the humanitarian category. Otherwise, they are a classic economic migrant wave — and that is it! He is still talking about Slovenia having to respect international law, in particular the Geneva Convention. Some others also said that. Tell me, how do Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland respect the Geneva Convention and these same laws? Doesn't that apply to them? They are members of the European Union. Hungarians made it clear that they will go to the referendum, I don't know if Gönch knows if it's still real or not, but it was said that they were going to the referendum. And they don't talk about letting anyone in, or taking someone out of Greece or Italy — about the so-called quotas. Brussels threatens them with 420 or 450 thousand euros, but Orban will do it his way; and he is right. Is it because this same Brussels did something to Ukrainian asylum seekers? They were accepted by Poland, Hungary and someone else and nothing. And they're not yelling in Brussels, so let's get them to us. You see, that's Brusley's duality. So if anyone can tell me, I ask him to tell me, too, the Secretary of State, why the Geneva Convention talking about refugees and all other international legislation in this area, why we must respect it, why now the Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians and Poles do not respect it. Or is it not? I don't know. You teach me if I have something wrong. Of course, this is a matter of debate, I have an answer and I also have a clear understanding; there are governments that rule on behalf of the people. We have a different government, someone else who doesn't know what interests he represents; certainly not the interests of most people! Mrs Muršičeva, but I almost wept – but now she's not here – it was so nice to say. But look, the government followed the Schengen rules, respected the Schengen rules. Yes, then let Mrs Muršič say why Mr Cerar said on 9 or 10 March this year that from now on we will be 100 per cent implementing Schengen. Then how old are we? 99, 98 or how many percent? We didn't make a percentage of it! Nothing, clear as day! This is today to say, as Mrs Muršič said, that the government respected and did the right thing because it respected the Schengen, it is a fairy tale for a good night. It can hang in one picture, so the zoom can do, but the truth isn't. Why isn't it true? Because it went from October 16th to October 20th across our borders, we don't even know how many people we didn't even record, or what men, women, children would say. But we had no communication with Austria and because we then released 400 more, I don't know, 70,000 people across the territory of the country of Slovenia. However, persons who have: a – citizenship and a document of one of the European Union countries; b – those who have the appropriate visa documents and c – if they apply for asylum at the border may enter the country of Slovenia and thus enter the European Union. There are no 470 thousand people in this category. None! So, talk about the Schengen border – no way! Mrs Muršičeva also spoke very nicely about migrants or refugees, however what she said should be helped. Help should be given to those who need help; as far as I am concerned, in principle: first the Slovenian citizen. It's in the first place. Above all, those with less than €400, €440 pension, are the first to be assisted. Then all those we've seen in Lucia, who are being dumped on the road for 2 euros 900, would be second in line, that kind of category, but then asylum seekers, too, why not. But those who are threatened coming from war zones; that's not Iraq, that's not Iran, and that's not much. But that's about 30 percent of Syria. And another condition is that she is a child, a woman or a person over 60 years of age. Not that childish 18 - year - old and up to 60 - year - old who has another job — a rifle in his hand — makes a country just like us! So help these people, but not the others. This is the government, the only one at this point, I understand the government or you in the coalition when we listen to Mr. Vatovac. I understand you're having problems here, but he's got bigger problems than you in the things he's talking about. He says we change the date, get a new number and the same document goes on. It's not true. [[…]] You could check it out. Next, he used the word "refugee" strictly. There are no refugees. The fugitive is to the first safe country — amen, surely, a dot! So he faked it on purpose. Then he kept talking about that since March no one has come. That's not true. We have them there between 200 and 350 in asylum homes through. That's what they say. They came in. We saw them cross the border at the coast because they were arrested there. I think the police will take some people every day because they've been caught every day before that. So they're coming to us. Well, then he reduced to 25 people who got international protection. Yeah, where are the others? What about the thousands we're gonna get or are we gonna get? What about all those who come across the border every day? They're still coming. And banalizes: 25. I don't know about 25. The asylum home accepts about 300 people, according to my information, if it's properly watered down. Or 200; well, I don't know. About 200, if we had only 25 of them, then it wouldn't be a problem, but here the asylum home is full, we have them on Kotnikova, we have them on the Supremes, we have them on Logatz or somewhere else. And he is very nice to the Slovenian public at the cost of the state with 25 people. That's it. Erlaha, of course, ascribes SDS. We threw Erlaha out, and you still haven't seen Kordiša walk around Kotnikov with sticks. That would be it, gentlemen of the United Left. Our Erlah left the client because some tweet he gave us, which we also thought was inappropriate. And his colleague Kordish is disguised by a stick — when will he get out? No, you don't! He's still talking about the humanitarian disaster – I've already thrown it away, it doesn't make sense – and then the incitement to hatred. Let him come back to the hall and say a sentence on this subject, to give a quote that I have uttered by the Members and so forth. I call on the same thing, Mr Slug; if you say anything and have a salary for it – I will not hurt her, Mr President, you have also said twice that we are spreading hatred and fear. Tell me one statement or action, if someone has attacked you either verbally or physically, and they belong in the circle of us, the proponents, then say it. Maybe we'll turn it off. If you're afraid of anything, please tell me, and you'll be president of the National Assembly, the police can provide security if you're threatened, because that's why we have mechanisms. The director of police is authorized to give you protection if he finds out if you're lying and you're not threatened, but there's another question. [[…]] So explain, really please, you will have the opportunity because you have already been, so now you have the possibility of replica, and say one act, physical action, or verbal action, or whatever happened to you, that you are afraid or that we are spreading fear and hatred. And who hates you so much. Tell me what action we did, because I think it's a very important story. Mr Dobovšek described very well what to say, because he is an opposition Member. I also find very nice words for coalition Members when I assess that they are simply right. He made a very good assessment of this attitude of the government to the opposition, very nice. For the last time, I explained to you what happened between 2004 and 2008, when we aligned over 60% of the laws with the opposition, so the opposition voted in favour. After all, all of this then, of course, collapsed all the time, and it collapsed all the time. In 2009, we offered the reverse situation to Mr Pahor, and this was the coalition's participation in the opposition, so that we could participate in the drafting of laws. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. Pahor ran into the camera with joy and said, "Yes, but then the Golobič came and Kresalov – he was a Fertik. Later this never happened again, but also during Mrs Bratuška's time, even in that year – because she was disgusting, uh, when I listened to her here sometimes – but the kind of attitude that you now have after the elections to the opposition, but in general, also with the president of the National Assembly representing the crown – because he will be able to respond – which represents the crown of this hatred of the opposition; you will not come anywhere with such politics. It's called Mrs. Servant, an exclusion policy that will bury you. Nobody in this world is the smartest. And I have not yet experienced, except that vote on the representative that you supported the opposition. I think you'll find five votes in two years, maybe. Maybe five votes when you made an amendment in your own way after we filed it, or that vote about the representative. Five votes. It's an exclusion policy. After all, we're not new in the National Assembly like the United Left. It is the people who, we have, led the European Union, not just this country; it is this country at the time when it has made the most progress. And now you come, you act exclusive, thinking – I don't know what you're thinking, but I know what you're thinking. We say in Styrian, they've eaten up their minds. I don't know if it'll work out. You don't look like one. Mr Matić continued to calm down quite a bit, compared to some previous developments, the situation. I don't know what the reasons are, we'll see. But you're still talking about hate speech. Look, if it's a hate speech, take the appropriate measures. In certain cases, this is a crime — it can. I still have those police forms. Come to me. I'll tell you where to put something, how to do something, and let me report it. Really report this, I'm against hostile speech. But if it's a phrase that's in a tape -- but you know you have to repeat it, you press the button and you repeat the story -- then it's another action, another thing. But you're going to have to go after the hate speech. You have mechanisms for that. But if it's a flossule, that's another question. Security authorities have been working as hard as they can. I'll sign your statement here. I agree. The security authorities have done their utmost good and the policy absolutely sucks. And you sign my statement, and I'll sign yours. It's gonna be okay. Politics sucks – it's not enough, but the security authorities have tried, and that's true. Well, you also said that you respected the Schengen acquis. I explained to you earlier how to get to Europe: a visa, a European Union citizen or an asylum seeker expressing this wish at the border. Over, over, Fertik, amen! The other one can't make it to the country. But if 470,000 people went over there, for some we don't even know how they were written, what their name is, what their last name is, then it's illegal or there's no Schengen. It's clear that the schengna isn't. You must not tell her, but you know what else is wrong with this statement — now I remember! [[…]] I don't know how you are in numbers, Mr. Cerar. Before the elections I've always seen you with him, I said, "Mada, this will be the Vice-President of the Government," because I knew you from before. Then it happened that you weren't even a minister, and now everyone's saying you're insulted, but you can't say anything so bad. See if you say, "We respected the Schengen acquis," and Mr Cerar said on March 9th, "from midnight we will respect it," then you went with a statement against him. God damn it, you're not going to be a minister again! Look at something else, the police didn't confirm – and that's what you said, Mrs. Slug – the police didn't confirm that those from Paris or Brussels went across Slovenia. Yeah, the Slovenian police didn't confirm that. Is that right? The Slovenian police didn't confirm that. This is the first and second, if we turn this situation into another, we say: In Slovenia, no South General has been convicted. Ergo, there was no war in Slovenia – or how? That doesn't mean anything. If they were not convicted, then it does not mean that there was no war in Slovenia. Yes, either it's one or another; whether it's a dick or it's a mouse, they say. It can't be like this right now. However, the situation is relatively clear, and many intelligence points to this. Slovenia could have thrown them away, but today it can't. Why can't he? But because we don't know who went across the border at a certain time, we don't know who had the forged documents, either, because the police can't know, it's not the police's fault now, but the policy that allowed it. Otherwise, Slovenia could now refuse to say that none of these have gone beyond our borders, and so you will never be able to prove it, it will not be possible to prove it, because it was just what it was. And the plane, Mrs. Slug, read a foreign newspaper, not just our newspapers, and you'll see what they're reporting. Many signs suggest terrorist acts are reported. They're reporting it today. Whether you're scared or not, I don't know, but I'm asking you nicely to explain to me what this hatred is and what it is with fear, but examples: this document, this paper, this statement, everything else is blah blah blah. Like Mr Matić, if you will, of course, explain what I asked you about the hate speech and how many applications you have made. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Mrs. Janja Servant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u148	Mr. Gorenak, come on! "Everything else is blah blah blah." Now you've been talking for half an hour, and I understand that you've been reported for an hour and that you have to smoke it, but all you've been saying just now was blah blah blah. And you're telling me that I was talking to you. What you said here today, about what I said, was completely in mind, because I never said I was afraid. And I never said I was at risk. Never! So you're talking in your head. When you say that these people who participated in the terrorist attacks in Brussels came across the Balkan route in Paris, of course this is not true, because these are the people who are citizens of France and Belgium and were born there and belong to even a third generation of people who live there. Don't talk to me. Don't talk to me. Don't talk to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Procedural advantage Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u150	Your Honor, if you can specifically look at the SMC, which obviously needs information, allow them to go down to the newspapers, where there are also foreign newspapers, or direct them, to take a little look at the Internet, to the official website of the Austrian police, to the German police, to the French police, to the Austrian newspapers and to the Greek newspapers and to the German newspapers and to the French newspapers, and to read that at least two of those who blew themselves up in Paris came directly on the Balkan route. At least three of those directly involved in the terrorist attacks in Brussels came directly from migrants along the Balkan route. These others came at a time when it was no longer possible to go across the border to Hungary; from where they had come, it is likely crystal clear. If you look at the Austrian data, you will see that for them there are some others — for example, four who were arrested under suspicion of terrorism, based on suspicion of explosives in Germany — note that they were registered at the assembly centre immediately across our border on the Austrian side. But everyone came to this collection center, you won't believe it, through Slovenia. Therefore, I do not care if our police say that they have information that confirms their transition across Slovenia or not, there is no doubt that material and also media and all other data and material evidence are available, of course, that these people — not all of them, but many of them — have come along the Balkan route. Once you've read and mastered all this, I suggest we continue to talk seriously. As I'm sorry, it seems to me that this is already another case, that after one year, when this is the most important topic on which security depends, on which is the further development of Europe, on which it is reflected, if you want, also the existence of culture, Slovenian culture, Slovenian tradition, is spoken to as if all the data are there. For God's sake, all the media is full of it! But let us allow, please, the chairman, perhaps a little pause, for the SMC to take a little look at this, and then talk about the facts, about what everyone should know and is clearly written in the media. Not in one, in many!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u151	You can't replicate yet because you haven't discussed it yet. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the motioner has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President. I can see you're being looked at so strangely, but this rule has been in force since we've had the rules of procedure. I'm sorry. Well, you know that, Mr. Matić, because I wanted to replicate it once, but I couldn't. Mr. Grimes said his thing, so I'll be very brief. I think he's given you a pretty good explanation of how and what's going on with the third generation. If Mrs. Servant reads half a sentence and half a sentence, that's your problem. Of course, some were born there as a third generation, not all of them. Not all of them. Yeah, that's right, not all of them, yeah, unless you have any special intelligence. Otherwise, go down to the quiet room, because you have the right, and you will be able to see something there. As far as the rest is concerned. You're telling me, you'd almost like to go to a personal level, you'll be telling me, as a man who teaches at the university for 25 years, that I say "blah, blah, blah." That's an insult, but you're a woman, so I won't insult you just for that, but I'll tell you that. You were talking about us spreading hatred and fear. I repeat, we spread hatred and fear. So, if you have recognized fear or hatred in any of our performances, then the fear of man is usually the result, but if you have recognized hatred and fear, in our statements and in our suggestions, please forgive you once again so that I will not offend you, say in particular. Say, in this sentence, in that quote, in that paragraph, in that document or in that statement. Tell me where is the seed of hatred and fear! You see how polite I've been to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u153	It's a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u154	Mr. Gorenak, I agree that blah-blah is an insult, but that's what you said first. I'm just saying it over and over again.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Kolesh has the floor to prepare for Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u156	I'll be brief, because a lover of rivers and proverbs, Mr Grimes says that where there are many words, there is little sense. On the re-examination of the issue of the refugee, migrant crisis – I will just say both because, apparently, it is true that migrants as well as also refugees – I am actually wondering what has happened since the last meeting of the National Assembly that we had to discuss this issue again and even recommend some measures to the Government. I would say that there is nothing new, because in the request it says, the migrant crisis in the second half of 2015 and in the first months of 2016 the Republic of Slovenia arrived completely unprepared. That's what the proponents have been saying all along. There's nothing new here. All we've heard is that there will be elections in Macedonia, and there will be elections in Austria, and I'm surprised no one said there were elections in London. Then we also heard a few picolov comments about some of the leaves, something also seems a little inappropriate to me, so I will also mention that in your content of the request I also noticed that it is a mag on September 1, 2016. Grimes requested a board meeting, etc. and that the meeting of the National Assembly on 23 September 2016 was, of course, an indication that you may already have a little fencing – forgive me, but I think so – perhaps because you made a proposal for treatment on 1 April. The facts cited in the request for some measures to be taken to be committed to our government were the first to ensure that Slovenia did not comply with the Schengen Code. There is always some dilemma about whether or not Mr Gorenak will, of course, claim for the rest of his life that Slovenia has not followed the Schengen code. Our Minister said on the Committee on the Interior that the basic legal framework for action during this period is in the Schengen Code, and Article 5, paragraph 1, lays down the conditions for entry, while paragraph 4c of paragraph 5 lays down the conditions or allows entry for humanitarian reasons. Given that the National Assembly has adopted the conclusion that the Government should treat the migration crisis as a humanitarian crisis and act in accordance with the European principles of solidarity in all procedures. So this is her explanation, and of course we accept it, and we say that the Minister, the Ministry and the Government did the right thing. Then there is either one fact or one of the facts: The government has, over a period of months, implemented some of the SDS proposals it has presented as its own. Of course, it's about wire and asylum legislation, sharpening asylum legislation. We have closely monitored the Government's actions all the time, as timely, proportionate and effective. I really don't know what the obvious thing is, if you're saying that you're taking part in your responsibility. In addition, you mention that we, so the Government has shown these measures as its own – I don't know, because you are also responsible, but not for the functioning of this country; at least partly as the opposition. The government has been irresponsible in its policy regarding asylum seekers who have submitted their application and have left the country. Mr. Gorenak would say she was erased from her asylum home. I don't know, I think the competent authorities have acted in accordance with the law. I can't imagine you doing anything different. I think that refugees, or those who apply for asylum and are in these homes, can't just shut down so we can't get away, and that's why I think it's kind of a weird claim. Preventing the influx of migrants is not the success of the government, but of other countries, or Macedonia, which closed the border with Greece. Well, here, of course, I have nothing to repeat, we know about the involvement of our government in this and that it is certainly one of those countries that has actively participated in these discussions and, of course, has also contributed actively to such a solution with an active role. Then, of course, there are predictions about the black future and about the resurgence of the mass migration wave and the likelihood of illegal border crossings. We take all of this as a lease, and we feel that, given how we have acted and acted so far, we have sufficient guarantees to keep it that way. Well, some claims about the beautiful protestors from Schenchure and the ugly ones from Kotnikov would not comment. These were, therefore, some of the facts that led the proponents to propose a more restrictive approach to the Government by example, I would say, a multinational group to step up activities to prevent a possible large increase in illegal migrants. We have rejected these recommendations on the Committee because these facts — all of which I have listed — are, perhaps, unacceptable to us or facts are such as they are, but in any case they are not the basis for some recommendations, because, as has already been said, I think that the country has acted very well, handled the problems of a truly large migratory wave and therefore we believe that the Committee has done the right thing. Now, of course, we have a second part of the task, these are applicants for international protection, who have already or will still come to us through the relocation system, as well as those who have requested asylum with us, and we will monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of this task at all times also in the light of the necessary integration measures for all those who will receive the desired status and others in our country. After what we have been monitoring on the ground, however, we are pleased to note that people in local environments have responded well, that our people and the people of the refugees have also accepted and that they probably believe in the government, in its actions, and that this government will also take good and appropriate solutions in the future, of course in the context of economic options and in the commitment of humanity and solidarity. Finally, I will mention once again what you say we should do as the countries of the multinational group do, as we know, that these countries are rejecting the quota system, the admission of refugees by the key of Europe, the European Commission. I will read this to you: 'The quotas set by the European Commission for each country of the European Union are a step in the right direction. The burden must be fairly divided." That's what your president said. I think he's still in your client or has he already left you? Well, let's get this straight, I'd say, Mrs. Bah Žibretova, she always says, "You're gonna have to deal with each other already." I've quoted your representatives three times, the representatives of the SDS, and I don't think you can say we don't listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Now I'm going straight to the order. Look, you're quoting Jansha nicely. [[…]] You have to tell the date because it's essential. The date of this document is early last fall, as I recall, because at that time it was a completely normal story, the Balkan route was not or was being prepared, and in southern Italy and Greece there were 100,000 people. You can't throw them into the sea, and it was perfectly logical, completely logical, that it was the only smart solution. And then something happened? And why am I saying you're wrong? What happened? Yes, a million people came to Europe, from this to the Balkan route, through Slovenia to half a million, and earlier to half a million across Hungary. This happened after this document and after this document, the Multi-Garden States resisted. Makes sense. That's right. Otherwise, see, what you said, 2016 – you are right, a press error. It's nice that you discovered it, we can't fix it back, a press error – okay, but what you said about the Schengen, that you respected the Schengen. What's going to happen to Papa Cerar? He said March 9th that you will start implementing the Schengen at midnight, he said so. If you don't believe me, let him. Two years will soon pass, two more years, and he'll have to go to the list, and he'll blink you down, and you'll have the devil, and Cerar will have Macedonia. Once again, Janez Janša may even be writing about Macedonia in this same document, read it again. He writes about the need to close Macedonia and help Europe. Maybe it's in the same file, let me read it. What I'd like to say is this: the Secretary of State, you've listened to all these stories, that no one came along the Balkan route, they were all born in Paris, and these stories You also know the secret documents, you know the documents the police have, you know the documents that are here in the secret room. [[…]] Please, if you have anything to say on this subject. But if you can't say anything about this subject, even if we close the meeting of the National Assembly in ten minutes, so you can say so. So it won't stay in the air now. There they claim that everyone was born in Paris, Mr Grims said another theory that there was something like that, something like that, and you have official information and tell them. I think that would be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the lady from the Ministry. We can agree with one fact here. I think that we will have the same opinion here with Mr Gorenak, it is said that we have had an enormous number of meetings: committees – these and those, extraordinary meetings, committees for this and those and normal meetings. That's what we've been working on. Whether it's too much or too little, that's another question. From this step forward we have somehow, of course, also because of political options and everything else, different views. But from here on out, I think that our government, and in the final stage also indirectly, has done something about this refugee or migrant crisis, as we call it. The government acted rationally, proportionately and in accordance with its capabilities, which is essential but human and human. That's the point. On the other hand, they resist and have their own vision, and we'll never get to the end here, because we'll never be able to find out. So I'm just gonna go over these recommendations, and I'm gonna go straight from point to point. The first item proposed is to hold a debate. As I said before, we have had no discussions on this subject, and this topic has just been involved as it has been. The second point is that a more restrictive approach by the Government is needed. As regards the restrictive approach taken by the Government, it must be said that we have a framework in place to deal with these matters, provided for in the Constitution, international treaties, bilateral treaties and agreements, European Union law, given that we are members of the European Union, and ultimately in the field of migration, border management, foreign residence and international protection, and so on. It is true, however, that individual countries in the European Union have started to explain this in their own way, that the European Union is hypocritical and does not respect all that it should respect. As far as the third point is concerned, I think that it is necessary to strengthen the activities that the Government is closely monitoring, or the competent ministry, to monitor this closely and to check it and that it is unlikely that it will leave this matter unannounced that it is an ad acta, because, as we have all determined, these matters will not be over for quite some time. As far as point four is concerned, whether they're terrorists or not. Here I have such a strange feeling because on page 17 you wrote that in fact the Slovenian police did not even record how many migrants came. That is, if you are imposing or recommending that you check – how the government should check if it does not have records. That's what I'm asking myself. There are some such dilemmas in the air. If someone watches foreign newspapers and reads foreign newspapers, as Mr Grims said, maybe they don't, but there is Wikipedia, and Wikipedia can look at who these terrorists are or aren't. They are named second, third generation and are named after everyone and in Brussels and Paris and Charlie Hebdo, there is a second attack, so that it can be debated openly, closed as you wish. It is necessary, however, once again, because I have already found here that the exercise must always be repeated. It is therefore necessary to reiterate that Slovenia has not caused this refugee crisis and this global exodus; and yes, the government must monitor this issue carefully and not fall asleep on this matter. Slovenia contributed to this crisis and contributed its share, that is undoubtedly the case. If I go to statistics a little bit, it's said in the last 20 years that the asylum status has granted to about 18 people a year. It's kind of a statistic. Another statistic is that 2% of asylum seekers remain in Slovenia. This is also the average statistics. As regards the EU's relationship with permanent and temporary refugees, the European Union has a ratio of 5 to 1, while Slovenia has 3 to 1. It's a propos, it's a statistic that we all do a little bit. To conclude, as the great propagandist of his client Mr Grims would say, there is a 1001-night story about the threats of migrants who are different by religion, appearance, color, and are violent, and I don't know what they are always potentializing, and somehow – running away – I would also say Mr Grims – makes an unnecessary impatience and then they just potentise it. I'm sorry that this comes from politics, instead of acting more calmly and calming people, as we have already said. Now I would try to answer Mr Gorenak a little bit, I don't know if I'm going to make it, because I don't have this great knowledge, but after one of those, I'm going to say, simple logic, why Slovenia didn't have this scheng or stop right at the border. First of all, you probably know well because you are very well informed; but we will be able to say something about this debate beyond the National Assembly. Thus, Slovenia did not have good cooperation with Croatia in these first stages, not all of them. Everyone was interested that this huge wave, this huge flux of people somehow came as soon as possible across the border, is said to somehow get rid of it – everyone wanted to get rid of it. If you wanted to be really that administrative and you would look at everyone left, right, it would add up, you know that, and you know how fast it gets on the border once the borders stop. It'd probably be another problem then. So, on the one hand, there was pressure on the police and the government to resolve this as soon as possible, on the other hand, we would like to implement that pure real Schengen, which in such situations was not actually in the right place, because the Schengen was for some normal situation, but these were extraordinary situations. The second fact, which was also very important, was that Slovenia was not a target country at all, but was only a refugee country. If we were to stop this at our and Croatian borders, because you also saw those videos when the Croatian police directed these people all the way through the mud and the side and across the water and to the left, just to get rid of it, at least ours somehow directed and arranged the matter. This is my modest answer to yours, probably not to satisfy it, but at least I tried to place somehow this thinking that the government and the police are supposed to have, and we will probably continue to debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Then it's your turn. [[…]] Excuse me, proposer Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I don't have two sentences, Mr Ferruga, but you're thinking in some context that's normal to me. Claim, see, as your colleagues claimed, we carried out the Schengen Yes of course you did not implement it, at least you say that you accepted those multitudes of people who were driven across the river by Croats, yes normally!, and you made them humanitarianally cheap, because there was no other way. [[…]] I am more opposed to those who claim not to, we have respected the Schengen and so on because it has not actually been respected. Everybody knows that. With only one comment, those who apply for asylum with us, you said that then most of them will leave, two out of hundreds of them will remain, that is to say, in nature, but also if they are still in the stage of obtaining international protection, they will all return to Slovenia, because they must be accepted by all international standards. I expect – Mrs Slug went away, and I don't know anything about fear, but hatred, she says, she put it in the room and she's gone. Mr Matić sees that he is preparing the answer to the enemy speech, and I will be happy to hear it. And once again, Secretary of State, consider what you can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice President! First of all, unlike fellow Members coming from the coalition and also from the kind or part of the opposition, I personally believe that today's debate is very necessary and also important, even though we have talked about this issue several times in the National Assembly, both at the working bodies and at the meeting of the National Assembly. But this is a topic which, of course, concerns the world, Europe and indeed every one of us, and it is right to point out several things repeatedly, especially when it comes to the safety of citizens and citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tabled a call for this meeting and made a recommendation on the migration crisis and the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to manage it. Here some of these recommendations have already been mentioned, but I would like to point out two key recommendations in my opinion, a third recommendation that the Government should immediately step up activities to prevent a possible large increase in illegal migrants in the event that a new migratory wave should be relaunched, and a fourth recommendation that the Government should check whether the terrorists who carried out terrorist acts in Paris and Brussels are registered in the Slovenian border register and inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of the findings. Why are these two recommendations proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party so important? First of all, the first recommendation is particularly important, so that the Government would not be unprepared again, as it was at the beginning of last year, if there was a resurgence of this increased migratory wave in Slovenia over our borders. At that time, we could see that the government was completely unprepared. When we visited in the parliamentary group with fellow Members and Members on the ground, in particular those places where the intensity of the arrival of migrants was highest, the mayors and the local population told us that at the beginning they were completely alone, that they did not have any assistance from the Government, that the Government began to understand this situation significantly later. We estimate it's significantly too late. Even though we have been alerting the Slovenian Democratic Party since summer what will happen if such a multitude of migrants cross the Slovenian borders. But the Prime Minister didn't want to hear those warnings. The second recommendation, however, is crucial in particular to the safety of citizens and citizens. On Monday, I also asked the Minister of the Interior at the meeting, when we asked questions about the way migrants from Greece came to us last week, security checks were carried out. I also asked her if there were any criminal or criminal proceedings against migrants. The Minister did not reply to this, she said that she would give an answer in writing, but of course that means that the Ministry of the Interior, led by Minister Vesna Györkös Žnidar, does not have matters under control. And if you don't have things under control, how can a citizen trust the government? How can he trust me? Even if the safety of citizens and citizens is tested and questioned. This is, however, the key and most important good that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must provide. But if this security is to be ensured, of course it must have the confidence of our citizens and citizens. I have already said that in the SDS we have been alerting all the time since the summer months what would be the most appropriate measures to address the migration issue. You will recall that the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša, wrote a letter to the President of the Government, in which he assessed the situation and the wider sociopolitical situation due to the upcoming wave of migrants. He also suggested solutions. He also proposed solutions on several occasions in the National Security Council, but the President of the Government reacted completely inappropriately and unconstitutionally to this letter. At that point, the President of the Government should accept this assistance offered. What happened? He took a completely defensive stance to these solutions, which were given, and then, after a while, he sneered with foreign feathers. Those measures that we proposed were first so overlooked as if they were not, even though even foreign media reported on them, Slovenia significantly less, but then the Prime Minister of the Government took certain measures precisely after these solutions and, as has already been said, sneezed with foreign feathers. Look, I don't want it to happen if there's a resurgence of such a large migratory wave as we witnessed to him, especially in October, November, in order for the police to be back at the limits of their capabilities, as it was in that case. At that time, I was very concerned about the game of some individuals who, instead of offering assistance to police officers, were concerned about whether they would even grant military police powers, even though we all knew that there were exceptional conditions at these key points, border crossings, but we were concerned in the National Assembly about whether or not to grant military police powers. This was completely irresponsible, because this was what those individuals who started this debate and also introduced this constitutional judgment, which was then, of course, rejected because of some wisdom, played with the security of police officers, with the security of citizens and citizens, especially the local population in that area, and not least, if you want, even with the safety of migrants who were with us at the time. Why do I also think that today's meeting is of great importance and this debate? All my colleagues who have debated so far have explained the reasons why a position should be taken first and acted before it is too late. However, it must be borne in mind that Europe is in an extremely difficult situation and at the same time under an extremely great test. This great test, in particular, shows that the security situation in Europe is deteriorating. This is seen from day to day, not only about a plane that was obviously caused by terrorist action two days ago, as it is now being determined, but I am talking about all this proliferation of terrorism, from which no one is virtually safe. Therefore, let us say that those who are warning how it is necessary to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens and that we also point out some anomalies in the system that should be removed so that we use hate speech and so on – I do not think that this is correct. That's not right. Europe, which we belong to as a member of the European Union, must protect and protect European values and also a culture based on the Jewish-Christian tradition, must ensure security for citizens and citizens, although this is, as has already been said, an increasingly difficult and more difficult task, but Europe must also show solidarity with those coming from war zones and fleeing for bare survival. But here we are talking about the real refugees and not the migrants – most of them have crossed the Slovenian borders and the Balkan route, as has already been said, through Slovenia have also gone some who have carried out terrorist actions in Paris. You will remember, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned and also asked the Government, including in closed sessions, how these migrants have actually been screened, how many fingerprints are actually taken away and so on. They were always responsible for avoiding responses; both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence, as the Director of Police, and the Secretary of State, we have never received an answer. But interestingly, the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar, claimed that all migrants were properly and properly screened. And even to this day, to be perfectly honest, Mr Secretary of State, we have no answer as to how many fingerprints have been taken. In short, controls or safety checks of migrants have proved to be flawed. Finally, let me just say this: in Slovenia there are more than 300 or about 300,000 people below the poverty threshold. But this government has decided that 123 million euros are earmarked in this year's budget for migrants instead of these Slovenian citizens. That is also why it is appropriate to discuss this subject today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Even when we are talking about the recommendations on the migration crisis and the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to manage it, it is right that we are aware of some of the data which are indisputable. In fact, Europeans have the lowest birth rate in the world. So Europe is doomed to fast ageing, to less innovation, to gradually lose the sustainability of its model, to social security and to becoming a net labour importer in order to preserve the production it has developed at this point. Now, if we ask ourselves, what's the interest in capital? Does capital have an interest in having employees who have to pay dearly? Does capital have an interest in having people who want at least the standard we know in Europe right now? And does this capital want a cheaper labour force and a labour force, which, of course, will not be organised and difficult to remove, as we are now, I can say, despite everything in Europe certainly at this level far ahead of others? So, capital has an interest in actually getting as cheap a workforce as possible. It does so in Europe and in the world in two ways. The smallest economic growth, if we look within the European Union, is even smaller within the countries that are included in the Eurogroup. So, capital has the greatest influence there. It artificially inhibits economic growth and thus, of course, reduces employment opportunities when the possibility of employment reduction, also declines fertility, Natalie, because people simply do not decide to be born if there is no prospects for the family they plan. This is the mechanism we're meeting with. But in Slovenia we go so far as to follow this capital interest or to follow the proponents, I also have to say in this way that you actually encouraged the entry of the fiscal rule into the constitution. So even in the constitution, we wrote that we will limit ourselves to development, which means that even in Slovenia this demographic will be worse year after year, not faster. If we look at the data in Slovenia, it shows a really worrying picture. In January 2016, Slovenia had 2 million 64 thousand 188 inhabitants or a thousand 314 more than a year earlier. However, the number of Slovenian citizens has decreased in the last year and the number of foreign citizens has increased. Their share reached 5.2% or numbers, the number of Slovenian citizens decreased by more than 4 thousand 900 and the number of foreign nationals increased by 6000 200. Even if we look at the situation in our municipalities, in 2015 we record a decrease in the number of people in more than half of Slovene municipalities. And we play with fiscal rule, we limit ourselves in Slovenia, we write this into the constitution, and we commit ourselves to this situation, not only to preserve it, but also to continue to cause the decline of birth in Slovenia, because this is what we are upsetting people. If we also look at the situation in banks, i.e. directly by persons, capital, if I may say so: finance minister, banking system, Banka Slovenije, etc. When we look at the situation in our banks or in this area, the data shows that banks, i.e. business banks in Slovenia, owed EUR 2.2 billion more abroad than they borrowed from them. On 30 September 2015, the claims of business banks from Slovenia for EUR 1.5 billion exceeded their obligations abroad. So we have more money than we owe abroad. So the capital outflow of €3.5 billion represents a good 9% of our gross domestic product, and this is this dead capital that banks have for 9% of gross domestic product, and we peacefully agree that this money does not have to be given to the economy, for infrastructure that we do not have money for the second track, that there is no need for health measures and I don't know what else, because we can actually invest more money. Look, this is a picture of capital. He's doing it on purpose! If we look at what has happened to us now in this last period, the problem is that this same capital, which is decreasing its birth pressure in Europe, has also made hotspots in Africa and Asia. When he encouraged these hotspots, he drove people from home to Europe, of course, where the standard is still higher. But with some purpose again – probably not? There, of course, he will own all the natural resources and wealth he has mainly in oil, this cheap labour force will come to Europe and take over at all costs if it wants to survive. This is the slave-ownership relationship that develops in front of our eyes, and we are dealing with whether we have done something effective enough or not. We have become an integral part of this, and it is right that we are aware as soon as possible that this is really a very large capital process, and if we do not organize ourselves against it, we will, of course, come into exactly this situation that I want to describe to you. You need to know that by the end of this century, capital is intended to wipe out the peoples of Europe and replace them with more receptive and more relenting peoples from Africa and Asia. This is their goal, because we are simply spending too much capital in Europe. If you ask for a decent salary, if you ask for a decent pension, you're just too expensive. This process is the one that has to worry us and that is why we must; for the first time, we must make a decisive decision and immediately end any negotiations for this trade agreement, which is just one of the models, how capital can control the whole world – not only through the banking system. The second is that, of course, we are aware of this problem and that, nevertheless, this money we have at our disposal, at least in Slovenia, we invest in our development and really alleviate this pressure, which is remarkable. That, as I am telling you, the European Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs, Gianfranco Frattini, who was Commissioner for 2004-2008, has also publicly acknowledged this. He then publicly acknowledged that the Union needed 20 million Asians and Africans and also proposed a Blue Card for highly qualified immigrants. So he said publicly: 20 million. It follows from the European Union documents that the exact number is 50 million. So by 2050, Europe needs 50 million displaced persons to survive through this system of economies. How is this immigration process actually being carried out? In this recent period, as I have said, the biggest problem, of course, is the fact that these crises have been triggered and the flow is difficult to control, in a single amount there are very many people, or on a very large scale, and this is a really serious, difficult to control problem, but otherwise it is all wrapped up in so-called intercultural dialogue. If we look at it, the Slovenian Presidency programme of the Council of the European Union. You were then in power and, of course, were also directly involved in this implementation. Intercultural dialogue at the time – 2008 is the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue – and Slovenian Presidency understands it more than a single event as a reason for long-term action. So for a longer-term operation. It is a strategic category of co-existence in diversity, overcoming stereotypes, prejudices – it is crucial for a range of areas, migration, the fight against crime and the fight against terrorism. At this point, we have a problem because this arrival of migrants is happening to us on a much larger scale than it is, because of these states of war and because, in the meantime, the structure in Asia, which has also formed its country, and there are fighters from all over Europe – and this is the danger that is actually threatening us at this moment when these conflicts can also come back and, of course, cause us even more of these conflicts. However, in such a large migration of people to Europe, when we speak by 2050, at 50 million, I think we can really draw the conclusion that in such a short period of time this immigration cannot pass without conflict. All those we have, say, this moment of relatively high standard will find it difficult to give up and understand that someone who wants to work will be employed cheaper, that is, for a lower salary, but on the other hand we will also be in a very invisible position. These conflicts, which we know very well in our area, have been created not least in the Balkans in a similar way, but also in Europe all these incidents that are happening to us are a sign of this. If we do not organise ourselves and actually try to get organised out of the clutches of capital, then the process will go this way so that, in fact, as we know it today with individual countries, Europe will not be able to exist in the future. This is a serious problem that Slovenia faces, but again, Slovenia has every opportunity to slow these things down substantially, if nothing else, and also shows that the model can be different because we have enough money to change it. If we joke about these budgets when we look at whether the economic growth will be 1.62%, I have presented before for 9% of the money we have from the outside that lies on, and we can really solve these problems. Now only a small correction; that is, the proposer is likely to have overheared [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Weber. Okay, he has a word, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mrs. Nada Brinovšek. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u168	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have already talked about this migrant crisis many times in plenary sessions as well as in working bodies. Personally, I have no problem with this; we can talk at ten more meetings, but we must be careful that these debates, I will say, have some effect that they are placed at some point in a situation. At present, we can find that we are in a situation where Slovenia has no direct problems with this crisis, thanks also to the good work and foreign policy of the Government, which, of course, must not lead us to realize that somewhere we fall asleep, that we are not paying attention to what is happening far from us, we are all aware that Italy is still or is again under pressure from the arrivals of these migrants, also Greece. The war in Syria continues and the outcome or some long - term predictions in this direction are very ungrateful. I don't recognize myself in some of the obvious proposals he's made on several occasions, let's say this left-wing policy box, inviting migrants and the like, and letting them stay at home. I think that this debate in this sense is even somehow infertile. Nor do I agree with Merklova's policy, which has actually invited migrants at some point, but today, with Austria's help, somehow sharpens this border policy, Italy is in some specific situation where no one wants to be, and such moves, which do not solve the problem of origin itself, will have no real impact in the long term. As far as the applicant's statements and the conclusions he has proposed are concerned, I think it has been very well-founded several times already, why the Committee has not accepted them, why they are not needed at this time. Maybe they will again, I hope not. So when there is a situation, when we discuss or when certain conclusions are proposed, which are not even necessary, I think it may be that we can also assess the debate in this part as being somehow excessive. I would even say that the proposaler has already somehow become involved in these issues, repeating them, despite the fact that the circumstances, as I have mentioned, do not give rise to some need for us to play some political action – at this point I am speaking. My colleague Irgle said that it seemed important for her to talk about decisions being taken for the sake of the security of citizens and citizens. Here I would like to remind you of an article recently published in the media, which is the end of April, which states that the Foreign Ministry of Great Britain is evaluating Slovenia as one of the few countries that is safe for Slovenian tourists. So, the Foreign Ministry of Great Britain tells its tourists, British tourists, go to Slovenia, a safe country, while by the proposer we hear some observations in the sense that we are at risk. In this sense, all the debates that have gone this way to encourage some kind of hatred, some sort of psychosis in a society that is totally unnecessary. So if the British say that Slovenia is safe, to its citizens, I think it's completely out of place, that some party first: No, we're at risk. That no one, as is often the case in politics, will take my words out of context – but we must always pay attention to what is happening around us. I am very concerned by the proposaler, in particular Mr Grims. It often speaks of left-wing people dropping foreigners into Europe, about the European Multiculture and the like. I think everyone was aware when we entered the European Union, which are the Member States, whose members belong to the European space, how many Muslims are, for example, in these countries. I think that, above all, Mr Grims is the most critical of this population and that these citizens or members of this faith have the European Union passport and are free to walk around the European Union. And not only that they can even buy, I don't know, real estate in the Republic of Slovenia. So now some fear that another religion will overwhelm us is very much in the context of what we expected from Europe when we entered it. At least those who have asked what European countries are and what their composition is, the population of these countries. My friend Matić warned me about the hate speech. The definition of hate speech is, of course, like boots, it can be stretched. I wouldn't go into this interpretation, but maybe I would point to something, I think it's very appropriate, given that I said that these discussions are turning around a lot. My colleague Grimes said that a true Muslim is always lying to a non-Muslim. Look, I think those are very bad words. Let me remind you, Kosovo has 95% of Muslims, and the president of SDS has received an honorary doctorate there. I think that's what matters? [[…]] See, it follows from the media that Mr Janez Janša for the process of democratisation in Slovenia and in the area of the former Yugoslavia received an honorary doctorate. It's a state that's 95 percent Muslim, and a fellow Grimes says that a true Muslim is lying to a non-Muslim. And in this sense, such statements are totally unnecessary. If we are talking about the security of Slovenia, we must look at the safety of all citizens. We cannot say that some are more dangerous than others, that they lie to one another, and that they promote a threatened state of one another. We don't need this. We don't need this. My colleague Irgl mentioned that during this crisis members from the SDS party were also in these areas where we were – I come from Brežice – most affected by the migrant crisis. Although I don't remember it, I know that you were some Members, but I don't remember a fellow Grimes who can tell the most about migrants what they are, what crimes they commit. I do not want to stand up for any migrant advocate, but I would like to point out that it would be right for those who have at least seen them live to say this, not those who may have gone to protests but who have not even seen migrants. Regardless of the fact that I agree at a number of points with the proponents, I think that if we repeat this topic nonstop, it will resolve. And I don't want him to crack a topic that's otherwise politically important. Also at European level. For this reason, I think that it is also right that the working body rejected the conclusions, were not necessary and that we do not have to vote on them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I'm very happy to see things progress. Mr Matić is almost half-agreed, Mr Zorčič as well. That is to say, if we repeat – yes, now that Mr Möderndorfer has arrived, this is probably not the case. But well, look, we repeat, we repeat this topic for the fourth time. And it's good to see you agree, then. This is the same as the government, and the coalition is the opposition; we suggest that they get their heads together, they don't accept it, and they accept it in three months' time at the government's meeting. Janša proposes measures at the Macedonian border, the President of the Government declares it not to be an anti-State element, but later sells this story in Brussels. We're making progress. That's very good. Unfortunately, this is not in terms of cooperation. That's what you have to say at that point. Look, Mrs. Koleša read earlier, of course – I have to, because otherwise I can't, and the time allows me – she read this document of 31. 8th published. 9th, John Janša's signature and, I'll say, these are the points he suggested there. But now look, it says that the quotas set for individual countries by the EU, the European Commission, are a step in the right direction, the burden has to be fairly distributed, and at the same time the number of quotas is the final number - aha, which it has not already read - must be fairly distributed. Pika. Didn't she enlighten us? And then she said, "Is he still a member of the party?" What does it really say? Now let's see what it really says. But it does say that the problem at the level, it is said in the introduction, is not a resolution of the European Union. Mr. Former President Weber told me about 50 million. Janša also spoke last September about 50 million, which is a possible possibility for them to come to Europe. And he says here, in this document – what? That Europe simply cannot accept this, it must therefore take certain measures that can be implemented at the level of the European Union and, in part, with the assistance of the UN more broadly. That's what he's talking about in this document. And first he says the borders have to be closed. Then he says that the lives of refugees must be strictly saved, especially those on the run, families must remain a priority and so on. That's what he says in this document. But when he says that when the borders are closed, in point 2, he says that what will happen within the European Union – that is, in Greece, in Italy and so on – it must be distributed fairly. That's the point. On Mrs Kolesh's side, we get out one sentence, one sentence goes out and has a performance that is not accurate. Of course he's not right at all. The point is — in what? To reach safe countries or safe areas in countries where there are wars and to help with money. That's a sequel. Now you get to about the whole story. Once again, I must ask Mrs Slug if she comes to the hall Please, Mrs Slug, come to the hall and tell us where we are spreading hatred and fear. [[…]] Say one sentence, show some action, a manuscript, a magnetogram, an article, a letter, any documents that please experts, because you are here to inform her that she should come and explain it. [[…]] In fact, the second time I asked her, she left the hall. Of course, I expect now that it is up to Mr Matić to enlighten us about the hostile speech and tell us if he has done something and where he has found something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There was a lot of that said today. I will respond a little to the individual matters that Mr Gorenak and Mr Grims in particular have said, which unfortunately is no longer among us, because we see that the meeting is long, that it is not only Mrs Servant, but also someone else. There have been some real mistakes. I don't know if Mr Gorenak was snuck in by accident or if he forgot a little bit; that is, it's not true that only one million went through the Balkan route. A million and a half people went through the Balkan route. A million over Hungary, half a million over Slovenia. And now, as for that one million over Hungary, that the Hungarians have let them through there, that Mr Gorenak is very reluctant to say. He's got some problems with that. It always points out that only Greece and Slovenia are the ones who have given in and Hungary is somehow disappearing from its radar. There was also a little mix of apples and pears when he talked about these people coming to us in the '90s, and they stayed, and what was their sexual and age structure, and compared it with those coming recently, that's what it says at the beginning of this year, and last year, but that's not comparable because those people were in transit. They came, their identity was established, and they just went where they were welcome. At least they believed that, and also some prominent politicians, even Mrs Angela Merkel had always stressed that they were still open to refugees and were a welcome country. In this sense, of course, this statement by Mr Gorenak also states that capable governments protecting the people are also leading politics against international agreements – something you have said. Who exactly were you thinking was it the Islamic State or North Korea, I don't know. Well, let's say it's a multi-city group that you so much like to explain how they are those who resist, who strike with fists on the table and say no to the European Union, and then some of them even demand a baptism certificate from these refugees as a condition that they accept them and that this is somehow an example that we should follow and follow and relate. You and the Multi-Citizen Group have repeatedly stressed this on the committees, because this is a group of countries where we should follow suit. After all that you have said, I am not surprised that, somehow, Mr Hans Gert Pöttering, who is the head of this Konrad Adenauer institution, did not invite you to sign the refugee crisis document because he preferred to invite Mrs Ljudmilo Novak. This is no surprise if we go to see this document Europe can do this, no Member State alone can manage all the challenges, only together as the Union. Sharing is a danger to everyone. The terrorist attacks in the heart of Europe have made it very clear that action alone at national level does not lead to the right solutions. Greater emphasis should be placed on the process of developing common positions and effectively implementing the decisions already taken. Only then will the Union as a whole be able to be more effective, and it will not always have to resort to a coalition of willing ones. The condition for this is the unity of the European Union, its division to the east and the west, to the north and to the south, which we are now witnessing, poses a threat to all of us. Together, a linked Europe can once again become more capable of effective action and rapid action. No wonder they didn't invite you to this signature because you're just defending the position that it is — what did you say? In Europe, everyone saves himself, but the forces that tear to pieces in Europe are being strengthened, so said Mr Grims, who unfortunately is not among us. There's something clearly at European level between your family that doesn't add up, Mrs Bah Žibert would say, you two need to consider each other, but there are some problems here. That's more than clear. Mr Gorenak also spoke when he spoke about these age structures of these refugees, how to be rude, because young men and young men who are capable of carrying weapons are coming, and they should be fighting somewhere for some of their ideals, not that they come over here, and that it is only possible that women, children and those over 60 years of age who are entitled to enjoy international protection because they are threatened and others are not. Where does it say that, Mr. Gorenak? Is this your lex Gorenak or is this an international agreement you signed? Tell me when and with whom, and enlighten us that we will know that we will somehow be on current international law, because obviously we do not know. Secondly, Mr Grimes explained that only refugees could come to the first safe country and then nowhere else. It's another Gorenak-Grims convention, you say it's already said so many times so tell me where it says it. [[…]] Any person entitled to asylum is judged by what threatens him in his home country; no matter how old he is or what sex he is. All that matters is what that regime will do to him in that country. If he's a homosexual, he's not very comfortable in some Islamic countries. Some consequences, because you understand this, Mr Gorenak, that there are different motives for why someone is fleeing a country. It is not only that there is an urgent war there — you who like to talk about the Communist regime and the horrors so much can then experience the distress of those who must flee. It is entirely irrelevant how many countries this man has travelled through, whether legally or illegally when he comes to a civilised country that has signed the Geneva Convention, he must be treated. Then it can be seen whether he is a migrant or a refugee; if he is a refugee, of course he is entitled to international protection, but if he is threatened with doing something to him because of his political, religious or sexual beliefs, he will receive subsidiary protection. And so it is in civilized countries everywhere. What you and Mr Grims are explaining is something that has nothing to do with any ominous international agreements that have been in force for decades and which Slovenia has also signed, and no country can simply refuse asylum seekers, as you have repeatedly said, and that it should be dismissed and sent to Turkey, or Greece, or anywhere. You also asked why Macedonia has now closed the border, why Slovenia has not already closed it. Yes, but you have always been alone – I remember one meeting on September 1st last year, when you were vehemently explaining that problems need to be solved as close to the source as possible. Yes, it probably does not make sense for Slovenia to close the border in Croatia and cause another Balkan war. It probably makes sense that things are being resolved as close as possible to the origin of the problem, and of course after countries agree to work together in a coordinated manner; not like Croatia, which sent us people across the fields and across rivers, that we then hunted them around. And then you tell us, or you tell the government that she didn't respect the Schengen criteria if she had to find them first, how they were there, I don't know, naked, barefoot and hungry, cold kids dragged God knows where. I think so! Under the given conditions, the government respected the Schengen regime, as far as possible, but if the other did, you cannot blame our government for it. Then you claimed it wasn't a humanitarian crisis. Yes, gentlemen from the SDS, look at the footage from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, maybe look at some other footage produced by the Islamic State, and you may find that it is possible that this is a humanitarian crisis when half the city is bombarded and people are fleeing because they do not have any basic conditions. Yeah, what's different than a humanitarian crisis! How would you describe it differently than that? I don't know. Let's get back to Mr. Grimes for a while. Hey, Mr Grims explained a lot, explained some of the aircraft mechanics, then explained some more of the social engineering, then explained how former members of the communist regimes, in particular members of the secret services, would destabilise Europe. The whole theory of conspiracy was how in Europe every man must save himself because now dark communism will tear this Europe apart. Yeah. And what else did he say? To scrutinize the vehicles, and be careful, I carefully wrote that down, the columns of the clock are waiting in front of the caravans because the Austrian side is scrutinizing the vehicles, or at least, the trunks were opened and the controls were carried out. Now in the middle we checked on the AMZS, and look at the fraction that is responsible for the AMZS say that since October 2015 they have not recorded any congestions or colons in front of the Karavankas, except those that occur due to the repairs of the tunnel. Mr Grims, you'll probably have to check your sources of information, because what you've been vehemently claiming before is not true. If you tell someone how uneducated he is and how he can't handle things. Last time you said on one of the Home Affairs Committees that Switzerland sent armored men to Brenner, you obviously think Brenner was crossing the Swiss border. As to the basics of geography, it would probably be good for you to learn a little, and then not to tell anyone else about such things. Otherwise, I didn't realize that you were studying religion, but obviously you're also learning about it online, because you always like to say, let me watch a little online and Wikipedia. It's your source of knowledge. You know, Islamophobics are based on this and spread, if you lie to Muslims, and their faith commands them to do so. You know, it's not in the Koran. I don't know. If you are taking as a source or example of a Muslim some extreme separation and sect, such as the Islamic State, which really teaches its members about it, then I would advise you to look at the web you so love, the footage of one foreign minister of an Arab state – I cannot remember exactly which – but he did answer exactly the same as you do: It is as if all members of the Christian faith were judged by the members of the kulkkslan. This is said to be some extremists of some lunatics who refer to themselves as members of Christendom’s religion and religion. And then, according to these extremists, all of whom are condemned by 95%, their religion condemns them, then they assume that all members of this religion are. This is said, in this implementation, you know, if you start talking about how the mosque is a foreigner in Ljubljana, then you list the great knights who defended Europe in battles, how they killed Muslims and how Jan Sobieski saved it. That's very nice. You're very fond of going back to history. This is kind of cute, but that the mosque is a foreigner in Ljubljana. Look, every metropolis that counts in Europe has a mosque. This is, I mean, something that is more or less a sign of some civilization and tolerance if you have members of a religious community that are more than that in a percentage of a settlement or some state that they have the right to have their own religious facility. Now talk about being a foreigner; in the context of talking about some battles; about how one soul turns up there like a drill of pain because they build mosques here. I mean, I think that's true — by repeating these stereotypes about Muslims — something that is very limited to hate speech. That's how I see it. You've talked about a lot of things, too. I've written a lot of things down, not many. You were talking about the referendum, how beautifully you offered it, about the people saying that it was not acceptable to accept more than as many refugees as were accepted in 2015 to make it a special law. In doing so, of course, it is impossible to adopt such a law without violating the Constitution, the previously mentioned Geneva Convention and the existing Law on International Protection. Then how many more things have been said here. [[…]] Also, as Mr Cerar said, between 15 and 20 refugees will be admitted. But this is what you used to ask one of our Members or Members when he said that. Cerar said that in April 2015. So, at the time, he couldn't have known that all of this would happen, that things would change, that no one in Europe knew. The Hungarians didn't start building their own wall either. Only after they saw the coffins rolling across their country did they decide to do so. Now we're talking about Hungarians you love so much. As for what appears to be a lightmotiv, these terrorists who have travelled across Slovenia and then exploded somewhere in Brussels or anywhere else. I believe these perpetrators were identified, if not otherwise, at least by the DNA method that forensics identified their identity. And if they found out, then we can probably say that they were or were not the ones who went through Slovenia, but now the speculators, yes, if they didn't prove it, that doesn't mean they didn't walk. But such an explanation is so very, I mean, amusing, Mr Gorenak, I don't know what to say about it, but it's already in this sphere of such speculation. It's not proven that it wasn't true. And because it wasn't proven that it wasn't true, it's probably true. If you have this information and probably go down to that safe room to read it, you know it, you can quote it, then I suggest you close this session or make a proposal to close it up, and you explain it to us because you've been watching these documents. Why are you torturing Mr. Boss here now? You know that this is true, Mr Grimes knows that it is true, let us know, bring us these documents, let us see who was the one who went through Slovenia and then blew himself up out there in Brussels. Not that we are now stretching this theory of the sea snake or whether there is a sea monster in Lake Loch Ness or not, but one saw it, something suspicious that sounds, but let's be exact, and if you have any such concrete information that is documented and has some real basis, put it on the table to stop speculating about it and to do some conspiracy theories over and over again. I don't think that's necessary. In contrast, when it is necessary to take measures that are proportionate, this government does not take them into account because no reasonable government does so, even Hungary has not done so, although it is so very exemplary and close to you. I do not think that there is a major threat at the moment by some waves of migrants that it does not exist. We have seen how cultural Europe is solving this, or intends to solve it, even on the basis of this statement or the signing of this declaration on the refugee crisis in your brothers or at least your cousins. So perhaps it would be time for you to consider revising your views a little. Perhaps, however, the Multi-Citizen Group is just not very European creative and there is little need to think about some other approaches that will be more in the spirit of international conventions, in the spirit of humanitarianism, and of course we fully agree that it does not show a disregard for the security aspect. This must always be before the eyes, but, of course, when it is necessary and during the necessary periods of time and in a suitable way that we will not violate human rights and that we will remain on the side of civilized and perplexed nations. That's it. Well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, you can't have a replica because you haven't discussed it yet. You can only have procedural, but you are reported for discussion [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, but the position is not a debate. Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u174	Dear President! As far as I know the rules of procedure, it has always been true that even if you present your position, of course you have the option of replica. That's one. The other thing is - and here I suggest you seriously warn Mr Matic, it is good that we at least listen to each other, because if we say, just one of the claims, I will analyze the rest later. [[…]] He's never listened to what I actually said before. I told you when Mr Cerar said that when you said so triumphantly that it was last year. I even said the date was published on April 23rd last year. If you don't believe me, go take a look at the magnetogram that I said all this. The second time I spoke [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] The second time I spoke, please convey to him this literal magnetogram so that the gentleman can be sure. [[...]] The second time I spoke, I was talking about radical Islam, and I was also quoting Mr Erdogan, I wasn't talking about anything. And you can also check this in a magnetogram and give it to him, please, to communicate, because if you communicate like that, then you just confirm the old Churchill saying that the widest is open. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u175	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please finish. In the end, Mr Grims made a procedural proposal, regardless of the fact that, of course, it does not hold that the introduction so far was intended or the presentation of the Group of Members as a debate. It's never been, but let's just leave it. Dr. Gorenak, please, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Matić's debate, I knew what it would be like to have to spare time. She was, you know, in style, what a moped what a bike with a motorcycle is, and what a bike is, we had one last time at Mr. Zorčič's, or the one on the electric drive. You're not going to be a minister again! Now let's just leave it. Look, I asked you nicely if you could tell me where you found the hate speech. Now you've completely missed that question. So I ask you the following questions – quote – if this was an hate speech: "The natural integration of migrants is not possible. As he further stated," I will let go of someone -- "after the terrorist attacks in Paris, events in German cities should now finally open their eyes to people so that security threats associated with the refugee wave cannot be taken lightly. The idea of multicultural Europe is," he said, "returned. The nature of migration, migrants – is a different way of life, a different opinion, a different cultural background and a completely different religion and is not possible" – integration. Was that a hate speech? I don't know. What do you think he'd be or not? You'd probably say yes, but Mrs. Servant would say yes. But that's what the Hungarian Prime Minister said. But the joke is that this Hungarian Prime Minister is on the left, that's what he said. Sorry, the Slovak Prime Minister said that, which belongs in the left political sphere. [[…]] This is why I am talking about the fact that we have responsible governments in Europe, and Slovenia has an accident because it has an irresponsible government. It's a problem. But look, we're going in order, and you're talking about nothing bothering me about that million that went through Hungary. Of course, he doesn't bother me because he went through Hungary, not because he went across my country, Slovenia. Of course, what I have now with this as a citizen of Slovenia, if Hungary has allowed a million people forward to Austria and Germany. I had nothing to do with it, but I even mentioned that more than a million of them came to Germany, one part across Hungary. But you said it very nicely, and now it can be a real problem with your boss. You said that these people who went across our territory in transit No, and now you just explain to me what the legal concept is, based on which article the policeman lets go across the border because he's in transit. [[…]] So you come to the Schengen border and you say, I'm in transit, and I go to Germany and they let you in. Try to do it yourself, and go to the border there, wherever you go, and say, "I am in transit, take me to Shentilla." Do you know where they'll take you? Not in Shentyl. So you just said that he wasn't respected by the Schengen. Of course he was not respected and I thank you, but it is true that you compared this to Bosnia and to those times where there are no comparisons of the right ones again. Given that I find that you have not really understood many things, although for the third time you are presenting your views, I will – I don't know, I think we have a group leader on Tuesday – suggested that I apply some of this today's material to concepts that you don't understand or that you misinterpreted them, and we will go again. Because Mr. Zorčič was already better today, damn it, he's making progress! Not yet. Let's move on. Who can hit the table, you asked. You know, that -- I have to be respectful because he's an outside minister, a twenty-year-old Austrian foreign minister. You know what he said? He said, yes, Brussels says it is wrong that we set the quota 37 000 for 2016, but I am responsible to Austrian citizens and that is why it will remain that way and not Brussels. Did you see him? What about our Prime Minister? We'll respect those, those, that, that, that, that, that mountain, down there, us – just so Junker can pry him a little bit, then he's fine. However, Austria says: No, we will not, the Austrian Foreign Minister and the Interior Minister of the former have made this very clear and communicated it to the Austrian public and to Brussels. And what did Brussels say? Nothing! He didn't say anything. And someone else can hit the table, like the Slovak Prime Minister, whom I quoted, of course, last time the Polish President of the country visited our President, when our President spoke in that style, how we will resolve things in solidarity, how we will break up these asylum seekers a little bit, and the problem will be solved. The President of Poland interrupted him and said: "No, Mr President, this is not the case with us, and this will not work for us." I can't imagine a plane bringing from southern Italy to Warsaw one plane of people, and then telling them they should be here if they don't want to be here. So it's not going, it's not going together. You asked me how and by what logic you could, I don't know, personally 18, 20, 22 years. Do you know what the logic is? If his life is at stake, or if he is politically persecuted, or because of sexual orientation, and so on — you know the story well. But he must prove that he is truly persecuted, that his life is truly at risk and so on. Yeah, well, that's not usually possible. Why not? Because even during the war in Bosnia and Croatia we saw exactly what we were accepting in Slovenia. Look at the composition of those people. Now to that; you must have said, but now I have received it because you have read the report – I do not know when you read it, in the afternoon or in the morning, in the diary, but now in 24 hours – if the SDS was not invited to sign the Adenauer agreement and this matter. I don't know exactly why, but I know one thing. See, if I read Al-Qaeda's report or watch Al-Qaeda's report on Al-Jazeera or what it's called, they usually express propaganda there, and I compare it to a reporter's report here specifically, that's, Mrs. Rogliè in the Journal, while I don't see any comparison of smart. In fact, that propaganda works, but Roglitch's propaganda doesn't, otherwise it's the same thing. It's the same story. I don't know, I have to check all this propaganda what it is, but if she writes it in the Journal, then it's usually not true, usually not true, you have to put the opposite in order to get the real truth. That's the one. See, since we are very far away in Slovenia, we could have the opposition's status as it is abroad, given what you are doing so politically and what you are doing with the opposition. Our opposition could very well have fallen under the Geneva Convention and there in Germany could have been asylum if I said that I was a citizen of Slovenia, because you know what Cerar's government is doing with justice, and I would probably have obtained asylum immediately. That's what you need to know. DNA analysis – and we need to solve the DNA analysis. Look, if someone in Paris, Brussels or the airport blew up and they took a DNA test there, you'll find out – nothing! Why? Because he could go through Slovenia: but – without documents, b – with forged documents and so on or in any other way, and then that DNA analysis doesn't do you any good, nothing helps. But it would help with some fingerprints, which would help if, of course, the fingerprints were taken from all 470,000 people, which would already be. But what kind of finger did he have left behind from the one that blew up there, so we could identify him. Based on DNA analysis, you just can't tell if he went over Slovenia or not if he had a fake passport or something else. In short, I thank you, Mr. Matić. We will still have a meeting likely if the Group of Members wants to propose this. But you study the term hate speech at this time, when you have discussed it so much, try it. But if you have two more minutes, give me an example, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u178	If we hadn't let Mr. Gorenak down, that wouldn't have been nice because he expected me to say something. What is hate speech? If you start to explain in this style that Churchill has already put the thesis that a country that does not defend its territory and its borders, that this is not the right country, if you talk about it as if there are hordes of some people who are hostile, you speak almost as if the state of war and the humanitarian aspect were being unleashed. If you start talking about people who have been commanded by faith to lie to them, if you start talking about them as foreigners, if you talk about their ancestors, which our ancestors — not you, your colleague — have defeated, killed in some battles, and that their church is a foreigner in Ljubljana, the mosque, then my opinion is that it is an hate speech because a particular group of people, among other things, have fallen other words of rapists and so on, mark in this way that they are something that must be hated only because they are Muslims in this case. And that fits these definitions of hate speech. Regarding the fact that one million of you don't care because he went through Hungary, you said that some governments must be responsible for the crime. Apparently, Hungarians don't need them because they went through. It's about transit. Yes, indeed, there were extraordinary circumstances, there were so many and so many thousands of people, they said they were going to Germany and they said they were waiting for them in Germany. Now I don't know, probably not every article of the Schengen Agreement could be implemented, that's true. And Kurz has already said what he said here, but Austria accepts refugees 700 a week.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the word, then Mr Jože Tanko is next and as the last reported mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Comrade Matić, I must say, I will now make every effort to prevent you from seeing any hate speech in my debate. In his position, colleague Kopmajer warned us that we have tabled this proposal, this recommendation for consideration on 1 April. I hope, my fellow Members, that you do not take us so seriously because we have submitted this on April 1st. It's not a joke, it's really a joke. I must say that it seems sad to me that some of the colleagues after all the sessions that we have had do not now separate who is the refugee and who is the migrant. Look, we've had about six meetings of the Committee on the Interior on this subject, six meetings of the Commission on Security and Intelligence, one extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, three extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, and today you don't separate a refugee - a migrant. Unfortunately, at all the meetings we had, the coalition did not somehow confirm or adopt any of our conclusions. I have to say, I can't understand why. I also cannot understand today's discussion of some of our colleagues, who say that this is what we inspire and somehow cause fear of our citizens. I am sure that you have read at least the first part of our recommendations or these four conclusions that we have written down. See, first conclusion: The National Assembly held a debate on the migration crisis and the measures taken by Slovenia to manage it. We've been talking about this for three hours. You can't say we haven't had a discussion. Secondly, the second decision we recommended: The National Assembly recommended that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take a more restrictive approach in the coming period and implement a more restrictive policy in the reception of migrants and applicants for international protection, following the example of some other countries, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and the Republic of Poland. However, for these restrictive measures, I would say that there is already something to be said about these restrictive measures. As has already been said here today, I think that colleague Grims has discussed this, interesting are the data requested by our fellow Member, Suzanne Leup Šimenka, on the age structure of migrants. I believe you've looked at this and look, from 285,000 male populations, there are as many as 192 thousand males between the ages of 18 and 48. So, two-thirds of the men in this age group. As has already been said, there is no way that we can compare this migrant with the time of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was then that women and children came to Slovenia, but if men came, but those who were over 60 years of age, that was an indisputable fact. Why are the more restrictive measures that we have here recommended in the 2nd decision? Look, I'm always confused here when somehow this government always puts everyone else first. Everything else, while our citizens, we are out there somewhere in the back – or I will say, I understand because the President of the Government considers us small people. I'll tell you a short story. I went to a workshop once, and that teacher asked me, "Tell me who you love best." I, you know, raise my hand and say, "My son." Mistake! And everyone laughed at me. You have to love yourself the most. You're on your own! Our country, the state of Slovenia, should also have our own favorite. Our government, I am sure that we should first take care of the security of our citizens and their property, then we can somehow continue to talk. If I still stop at these restrictive measures, also from a financial point of view. I'm sure we don't have a clear picture of how much these migrants cost us. If I am just comparing the health sector now, I have asked the Ministry of Health in writing how much costs have been incurred in relation to this migration problem. I received a reply that in 2015 these costs amounted to EUR 358 000 847 and EUR 287 thousand 115 in 2016. But if we look at the Ministry of Health's website, we've seen them write health care costs for migrants from 16. Ten. 2015 to 31. 12. 2015 amounts to €492,000,593. What's the cost now? I don't know what to say. I must say that I am very pleased that the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance has somehow opposed this decision taken by the Government to cover these 250 000 euros from his treasury, which is intended to employ young doctors to work in these accommodation centres. If we now take only these 250,000 euros, which did not come from the health treasury, but from the state budget; see what we would get for 250,000 euros. We could do 55 hip operations or 8 thousand specialist reviews for 250 000 euros. But if we take that number 492 for those three months last year, that number is obviously increasing. If I move on. I read in the paper – and I must say that I quite agree – one article, perhaps a little joke, but it is also true that this solidarity is essentially a solution to the mistakes of German Chancellor Angela Merkel, and it says here that this is similar to a teenage girl from the fifth floor of a tower who on Facebook invites everyone to a party and when there are too many guests, they are distributed by other apartments in this column, but with this invitation they had absolutely nothing. But this Merklov dictatorship was strongly opposed in particular by the multi-city four countries with the Hungarian prime minister at the head, and Slovenia did not resist and willingly follow, if I say so, false solidarity. If I go back to that recommendation now. The third conclusion of this recommendation states: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government that it immediately strengthen its activities to prevent a possible large increase in the arrival of illegal migrants in the event that this wave is re-emerged. It's logical to be prepared here! I don't know, to strengthen, I don't know if we're going to always be acting like we're surprised, as our President or our President of the Government has always said. As a last decision, the 4th decision of this Recommendation, which was only a problem for the Coalition in the Committee on the Interior. Just to verify that the terrorists who carried out terrorist acts in Paris and Brussels are listed in the Slovenian border register. I mean, I don't see any problem in this, but sooner or later, I think someone's gonna knock on our sleeves and ask for that information. I think it's over here to repeat that these recommendations were not accepted because they were proposed by the opposition. But certainly, dear coalition, you probably don't care what our citizens think – or I will say in your president's words – small people. Here I'm going to repeat the words, the last time one of the Zgornjesavinjians said to me, "You know, Hope, sometimes I think it's just a matter of replacing citizens in this country." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko, your word is yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, it's a disappointment that she's not a minister. It is clear that the highest authorities will have to be brought to individual agenda items on the basis of a tyranny. The lady is not coming, and this is not at any point in the agenda, so this is an important problem. If we want to see her in the National Assembly, we'll probably have to put in an interpolation, and that's where she might be sitting. Another disappointment is that her deputy, her representative in the National Assembly, the Secretary of State, has not responded to a single debate or statement in the National Assembly after five hours. We know he's a big fan of the press, but he hasn't said anything here yet. Nothing. Which is sad, pathetic, after all, that the government is unable to bring an interlocutor and someone to the National Assembly who will confront in the debate. It's really sad. After all, the number of questions, the dilemmas that were open, was great, and now Mr State Secretary, this is your final ex-cathedra lectures that mean nothing to us. You have it or you don't have it, anyway. It doesn't mean anything because there were no responses. The next thing that is and what bothers is this incredible generosity of the lion governments. Remember the case of financial assistance to Greece. At that time, Pahor’s government, we gave something, even more than it was then, according to the divisor, generously. Minister of Finance Križanič said here that we will make a profit out of this, that we will get more than we will invest in Greece's rescue project. None of this is going to come back, and we're not actually going to get what we helped with. Here, too, a new left government is equally overly generous to the point. Exaggeratingly generous. We have and you have the same data on poverty, you have the same data on the shares of those who can't pay, say, rent. If anyone in this country wants help, social security assistance, has to enter a mortgage on the property, and if he is not able to return it or immediately, I mean when conditions exist, it is easy for him to settle in the legacy debate. To people, to our own, for a few ten Euros of social assistance, we enter mortgages. In this case, there are significantly higher amounts to those who are coming, and this country speaks generously about how much money we have invested, how much accommodation we have prepared and so on and so forth. For people who are citizens of this country who, at the time of their departure, have also paid taxes, contributions, and now that they are in a situation of insurmountable problems, we are not able to find any alternatives if they are posted. Nothing. You have cases yesterday, before yesterday, you have cases back and forth. Nothing! I mean, as long as we have that kind of power when it's extremely involved in solving problems thousands of miles away, but it doesn't see them here in our own house, until then we're going to face all these problems, and we're going to expect that this authority is human, that it's human to care for people, that small people are close to it, it's irrelevant, it's impossible. All the actions, all the measures you take, are directed at small people. All these changes that we are considering in the area of, I don't know, taxes and similar things are going in the direction of additional burdens on those from whom you expect to spend more and will contribute through consumption, through VAT and excise duties into this state treasury. Your actions are diametrically opposite to what you're saying. Do not take care of your citizens, leave them on the street, on the road, but see and solve the problems of all those who are enormously far from our borders. Of course, it is normal for us to help those who are here in some appropriate way, but exaggeration, what this government affords with all these invitations and similar things, goes beyond the humanitarian framework and what this country would be obliged to do. Just a question. How much of GDP or money have you spent on solving foreign citizens and how much additional resources have you spent this year to solve our citizens' problems? 130 million for migrants, the right people who do not have status, more or less of them do not have the status that they would owe me to save under any convention, you have provided 6 000 or how many accommodation facilities, you have prepared for this, booked premises in barracks and other facilities. How much have you done for those of us who have a different type of problem, who are also on the street, how many of these 130 million, or how many times have you spent 130 million on these? And it's ten times as many people as you've prepared the capacity for migrants. There are at least ten times as many problems in this country. There are 200,000 people in our country who would need certain measures. And you're going to give 6,000 migrants more money than you give us 200, 300 grand. If we gave this 130 million or a large part of it to solve these problems, we'd probably all be there to support you. But because you share it long and hard, I think it's a very serious problem. This is how I would expect some responsible government to tell us how much GDP our GDP, how much our gross social product is going to take such measures, or what kind of aid, so that we don't overly intervene in the social structure or hurt our citizens and make it impossible for them to survive with dignity. Many of those who are now in need of social assistance are greater problems than those who crossed the Slovenian border. A bigger problem, a significantly bigger problem; they have nowhere else to go. And no one cares about them, no coalition party, even the most socially sensitive one for these citizens is doing absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u183	Mr Boštjan Šefic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dearly-respected candidate, Members and Members of Parliament! Maybe I'll start at the end of Mr. Tank's. Our Minister is absent today, he has some other obligations, and that is why today she has authorized me to represent here, of course on behalf of the Government, and also the Government has authorized me to represent my views on the issue that we are dealing with today. In fact, the fact that all these questions that have been asked today are numerous is that we have already answered in one way or another. Even with the numbers, with the very exact ones, so today I'm only going to repeat a few things. If we start with funding and costs, I must say that everything related to the migration crisis since 15 September forward has gone from a specific heading and from no other cash register, so everything connected with migration is financed from the specific heading. Neither health care nor any other cash register, other than the state budget, European funds and what we have received from other sources, has been settled from this. As far as capacity is concerned. We have indeed had almost ten thousand capacity and you know, your client knows, Dr. Gorenak, today's proponent, has focused on one of the first meetings we have had, on this topic of course, a great criticism that we have too little capacity. Of course, it is now critical that we have too much capacity or that we have had them, that we do not need them anymore and that we have kept them all in line and that we only keep what we would now have for the entire assessment – and I will say a few words later – because we will be prepared for each case if we are on these key migration routes, but it is not just Western Balkan, whatever happens to be ready, as we were for the first time, even in this second wave. So this criticism in this direction is, I don't think, correct or appropriate. However, my intention was to listen very carefully to you, Members, to see which key comments, guidance, guidance, proposals, and, of course, absolutely to answer those key questions. In the introduction, Dr Gorenak's proposal stated, of course, that in all the committees so far, plenary sessions were mainly interpreted by the government's so-called fairy tales. I don't think so. We have talked about very harsh realities, very real situations on the ground, how we are facing this, what measures we have taken, what we will take, and so on. In short, very real things. It is true, however, that some scenarios, which have also often been presented, have not been implemented. This is because we have done the right thing and tried our best to deal with this situation, which we have been dealing with since January 2015 on many European Union Affairs Committees, the Internal Affairs Committees and the migration crisis – then, of course, more focused on the Mediterranean migration path, less in the Western Balkans, although we have been on the part of the Government, the Ministry of the Interior, those who have been alerting us to the Western Balkan migration path and have warned that we can be significantly more affected than these Mediterranean ones. And that, of course, happened, and because we knew it, we prepared ourselves, and we controlled things, just as we controlled them. There are many indications that these migrants were not entitled to treatment, status, and so on. I have to say very clearly and loudly again that we have repeatedly warned that these are mixed migratory flows. Thus this Mediterranean migration route with all three directions; that is, the Western, Eastern and Central, as well as the Western Balkan route. We have warned precisely about these problems arising from these mixed migrations. That is why we have also conducted activities, also in the region, in other countries and within the European Union, within the framework of the European Council, within the framework of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, certain activities, which have also taken place and on the basis of which they have also, of course, not exclusively and thanks only to Slovenia, but also thanks to this, things as far as this moment has settled. Also in terms of terminology, I think that the Ministry of the Interior and the Government were the first to define very clearly who migrants are, what migration are, who are applicants for international protection, who are refugees, under what conditions someone can get status, and so on, when I can say that even the vast majority of people in Slovenia were not quite clear what this is about. Is this situation over? Of course not. I must also say that we have often spoken in public, in this national assembly, in many other forums, and we have also very clearly identified certain risks arising from the current situation. Thus on the Western Balkan route, it is also said that migration through Bulgaria, Serbia to Hungary, is the most powerful point of entry for illegal migrants to Europe today. Except, of course, I am speaking in this eastern part, where it was only, I think that in this first period of this year, on average, between 800 and 100 migrants who exceeded the Hungarian-Serbian border. Why? Because it is on the most favourable path and also the fence and all this does not fully help. Of course, you need to know that Hungary has huge police, military and other forces involved. However, this is the most powerful entry point of the moment, as I have said. Of course, we also draw attention to the risks of international organised crime, the implementation of the human market, that is, human trafficking. And, of course, I don't know who has already mentioned it, I think that Mrs Irgle's Member of Parliament, is trafficking in human beings. We have been doing this for a very long time. You will soon have, I think, a report also on your committee and also from this report that activity, as far as the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, is so international, inter-ministerial and, of course, the police are very intense. That even last year there were more convictions, not just those organizers and performers found. In short, we are aware of this, we are working very intensively and also self-critically at the level of the Interdepartmental Working Group, that all things are not as they should be, and that there will be a lot of work to be done in all spheres, not just in the repressive work. Macedonia is also at great risk. At any time under this enormous pressure, under which he is under pressure, things can be broken, as they are called. We are also studying this and we have these options ahead of us if that were to happen. However, we must not miss the Mediterranean migration routes at this point. This one's getting stronger, this one's growing this year. After all, a few things fell in April, mainly due to weather conditions. Otherwise, this is one of the great risks, especially at the position of the Republic of Austria in relation to the Republic of Italy, as far as Brenner is concerned. Here, or this situation could pose a risk to Slovenia, and we therefore conduct appropriate activities. Last but not least, we also initiated a special meeting of the Secretariat, the National Security Council and so on. As far as registering is concerned, I must say that I have already been at the previous national assembly fairs, and in particular the Committee on Internal Affairs has said that we have been very closely carrying out registration procedures, that we have also carried out security checks, that we have had about three days of major problems – and you know why? Because of the spillage across the green border, because it was mentioned earlier that we had to gather these migrants at 20 kilometres first so that we could even move them to certain points and so on that I did not go into history. But I have to say that, except for around, I don't know all the numbers completely out of my head, but between 100, 120 thousand were children, so we didn't take fingerprints, these are up to 10 years old, 11, 12 years old, and otherwise 67% of the population that came through Slovenia were also fingerprinted. They also come to us today in many security activities and cooperation with foreign security authorities, and of course all of these persons have also been checked through available police bases, Europol, Interpol and others, and of course also in cooperation with foreign security authorities. As far as the location is concerned. You know, we've discussed a lot in Parliament about this. We're just doing what's agreed, what we agreed. I have to say, it's not that easy here either, and we have some problems with that ourselves. However, we follow the operational or implementation plan set by the Government. As far as the V4 policy is concerned, of course, I will not talk about Slovenia's foreign policy, this will be the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, I can say that the Ministry of the Interior is working intensively with all the members of the European Union, as well as with some others in relation to migration policy, as well as in the area of combating terrorism; that we have relations with the V4 very well; that we have also worked very well on operating salaries and that the V4 Member States also had many policemen in Slovenia. After all, 400 were agreed, and some under 300 were realized, while these teams were changing, and if they were looking at the total number of police officers who came, they were in Slovenia, and this number was probably bigger. However, we, as far as cooperation with other countries is concerned, are pursuing a balanced policy in accordance with the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore we also have good relations and good results both at operational work and at, I will say, if you wish, at political level. Once again, if I return, as Member Grims has also mentioned, of course, the end of the migrant crisis and so on. I say again, of course not, absolutely! I think that the first one also caused quite a stir in November of last year, when I had a performance in Portorož and I said that there are 20 million migrants, in the background of course, who wants to come to Europe on different routes, of course not all through Brežica or through Šentilj. However, I must say that my colleagues from other countries have corrected me and that this critical mass of people who want to, gravity against Europe, is significantly greater. So once again, of course, we are aware, we are preparing and encouraging comprehensive solutions. Because what you have learned today, Slovenia alone will not be able to face this complex problem of migration, but we can set up a fence three times around Slovenia and it will not be possible. Fear, the promotion of fear can also encourage extremes, I will say, also political groups, and that is bad. It is therefore important that, in all these discussions, we are extremely constructive, clear that we are discussing this with arguments. And I agree with Dr Dobovski; of course, discussions on this subject are still necessary, but, as it is said, they must be based on quality foundations, on exact data, on real data, and then on this basis, I will say, we are developing a strategy and a policy that leads to the desired goals. As far as private accommodation is concerned, that is why we have decided on private accommodations, not to burden or to try to minimise the burden of state capacity, so that all other things, including social programmes, can take place normally. I must say that the response is not so far bad, and I hope that we will be able to make some progress in the coming weeks. Of course, we have never said, and you know, I have repeatedly pointed out that there have also been some challenges, including some problems that have been successfully solved with all the colleagues involved in these activities. That's why, as far as it's concerned, I'm an optimist. We have never neglected national security or humanity. Both went hand in hand. National security, the security of our citizens and citizens, the people of Slovenia have been, is and will be a key priority always of these governments and the Ministry of the Interior. There's no doubt about it. Of course, as I said, in this situation and in this situation we have also taken into account, because it is the same and because this was also the direction of Parliament, this important and necessary and justifiable humanitarian aspect. Mr Horvat also raised in the context of security the question why, in a particular situation, in particular there in February, we restricted certain matters. Of course, since the other countries started on the Balkan path, on the Western Balkan migration route, to cooperate, we could also gradually regulate matters. It has also been a long time since a member of the European Union understood, however, that he must participate in this and I am pleased to note that cooperation with the neighbouring country of Croatia is now constructive, good, significantly better than it was. The result was also an agreement that on one train arriving in the Republic of Slovenia during the day could be 580 or up to 600 migrants, not necessarily, but on one train and in advance agreed and announced. Of course, this has made it significantly easier to work and organise the work of the police in the reception of these migrants at our Schengen border. That's why this number is. I already told you about the fingerprints. As far as the union of family members is concerned. You know that as far as the Aliens Act is concerned, this novel, the parliamentary novel and we will respect it and implement it as long as this law is in force. So far, no one in Slovenia has lost or received an apartment. Well, there are no such cases. However, I agree that young people in Slovenia need to be taken care of, and this is probably one important topic for another debate in this Parliament. And also what Mr Horvath said, the government must not sleep; the government does not sleep, it will not sleep, and so we will do whatever it takes to control it. Dr Dobovšek pointed out that the entire national security system must be involved: he has participated and participated in this and is very well involved. Each of the operators of the national security system has played a role in this situation and has done so, which I think is also a positive result of this situation, which has been extremely difficult. As far as openness and information is concerned, and in both this assembly and the Monitoring Commission, we have stressed that we are always ready to give any information, including on the groups of Members, anywhere. I regret to find that no member group has invited us to provide further information, anything that might actually – perhaps more details and so on. But this readiness still exists and will always exist. As far as the flow of information is concerned, we have also said publicly that we think we have done a lot. Some shortcomings have also been identified in the analysis, particularly at the local level. We estimate that we have underutilised the capacity of local media, we are correcting this moment and will also pay much more attention to this area in the next period. As far as the privatisation of security is concerned, it is absolutely out of the question and I have to calm Dr. Dobovsk down here so he doesn't worry. As far as trade unions are concerned, I hope that in a very short time we will also reach a final agreement and conclude this. However, I agree that, of course, this sentence and this situation have made it further difficult, or another challenge, for both the leadership of the police and the Ministry of the Interior to manage this situation. As far as consensus is concerned – yes, I agree and, of course, as far as consensus is concerned at the level of the European Union, here we are active, here we are proactively working with concrete proposals, with concrete suggestions, we are also presenting them in this Parliament. I can say that we are proactive here and that we also succeed with our proposals as well as in Parliament, I agree, as well as at the local level, that there is no dilemma and that with both the Government and all the ministries involved here are absolutely prepared for maximum engagement. As regards the quotas mentioned by Member Grimes. The quotas are an expression of solidarity within the European Union, with the Republic of Slovenia paying particular attention – and that was also in our views, you have received them in writing – always in accordance with our options, real and also the integration capabilities of our country, which is, of course, different from the integration capacity of any other Member State of the European Union. This must always be borne in mind, and this must also be taken into account in the drafting of all proposals both for the Government and after we present this on the basis of your opinion also in the world of internal affairs or the European Council. As far as the protection of the Schengen area is concerned, I think today has already been said around Article 4(4), I will not repeat this, I think the Member of Parliament has explained this perfectly. I say, and this has also been admitted to us in other members of the European Union, that we have done well the whole thing, that we have been under control, that we have done a great deal for others to do the same work as we have. However, I agree with Mr Mahník when he said that Frontex has not done his job, so we are modifying the regulation or a new one is being prepared because a border guard is being created, which will have greater powers, which will also be able to do more in the area of return, which is now one of the key problems, and so the Dublin Regulation is being renewed and these instruments can be more or more effective. As far as Brexit is concerned and so forth, that's all. Experts, prominent British experts, of course, point out that, from a security point of view, this is also a great risk for the UK, and in this regard, they stress that Britain is much safer within the European Union than outside it. I think this is an important matter. However, the two important personalities of the British Security and Intelligence System, who are former, have highlighted this, and I think this also gives us a certain picture and a point when we are also discussing the European Union. I have already said about this security aspect that it was all the time that we had this in front of our eyes and in this context we have also helped and helped Macedonia to the best of our ability. We now have a fourth team of police officers in Macedonia, who play an important role and are particularly commended for their activities, and have also participated in the break-up of some organised groups. So we also gave some equipment, those that we can of course, so I think that here Slovenia has played not only on the political floor, not only on the international floor, of course also on the ground itself. And that's how we're gonna keep doing it. As for the question of Mr Gorenak's question regarding the closure of the border. Here is the first important opinion and evaluation of the profession, the real police, who evaluated our 670 kilometers long border with the Republic of Croatia. Compared to what I remember, I think the border now protected by Macedonia is 230 kilometers, something like that, if I'm not mistaken, and the configuration is inappropriately different from ours when our border is completely open, and there are many mountainous areas and so on. Of course, as I said before, despite all the fences in Hungary, this is the most powerful entry point of the moment, so this element must also be in front of itself, and of course the external policy element, I think one of the Members has already warned about this. Of course, if I were to be radically held back, of course, there would be, especially in October and November, a conflict with the Republic of Croatia – you know what policy it had at that time. But it's interesting that she had this policy. I hope we'll break some things down in time. Of course, there is one more thing we need to know; we would have such a situation or a significant, essential, substantial worse situation than Macedonia today has on the Greek-Macedonian border, and these risks would be extremely high. In short, these are elements, now I am very succinctly responding, which led to the decision she was making. The communication with Austria has been excellent all the time and does not agree with the conclusion that there was no communication with Austria in particular during the first period. No! No! With Austria, there has been extremely good communication all the time, we have very well coordinated all activities, and this has also been an important element in the overall management of this situation. True, we have had problems with the Republic of Croatia, you know, and that, as it is said, this matter has improved, and today, at least for the moment, with this team that is there, we are working well, we are planning. Of course, this situation has taught us in October and November, and we will also take this element, which was then, into account in further planning. As far as illegal migration is concerned, this situation has not changed significantly since my last meeting of the committee. About 100 illegal migrants we had in almost 4 months compared to all the others I have already mentioned, all the other borders are inappropriately more - I will say, these numbers are thousands, many thousands. That is how I think that because we are good at protecting the border, we are also preventing these illegal migrations and thus certain risks. I think that Mr Grims asked about – or perhaps Dr. Gorenak, I don't know – in short, two cases of two migrants allegedly involved in the preparation of a terrorist attack. For two, I can tell you that an investigation is under way. There are certain indications that, but not yet confirmed, in fact with the forged registration documents they came with, they could cross Slovenia, but not the foreign security authorities, and we have not yet confirmed this and these activities are still taking place. Of course, once we clear this up and when we confirm it, there will be no reason not to talk about it, because it is useful for all of us. [[…]] We need to know if there was such a case and, of course, it is appropriate to make or take the necessary measures. I think I also replied to Mr Ferruga's Member that we checked all migrants on all bases. As far as those who are now coming after the relocation system are concerned, all have been verified both through Europol's bases, Interpol bases, our bases, talks have been made with him, verified data obtained, and these matters have also been properly regulated. There are so many answers to these questions that have been asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you very much. As the last debater in this part of the debate, he has the word mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you, again, for your word. First, a few words about this last debate. I don't want to disappoint anyone, but who are actually migrants and who aren't, I've been talking about it since last spring, and then in the summer, even on TV, and in the early fall; you won't believe all of these places, your minister has claimed or used a term like poor refugees and so on. It is true, however, that towards the end of the fall you also began to use the term migrants in the ministry, which was a huge mental shift and I think it also helped to start looking for finally the right solutions. For if anyone is a poor fugitive and saves life, he has different rights and duties than that of a migrant. Of course, then the behaviour of the State or the interstate community is different, and this is therefore extremely important. I'm afraid you started too late. Second, when you talk about solidarity. Yes, the quotas were indeed so predicted, and even then, when I spoke, I said earlier – I think it was April 23rd 2015 – so a good year ago Mr Cerar said that "we will have a quota of 15 to 20 migrants". It's a quote, and then it was even number 16. Well, what we've come up with today is clear, and then it will be clear that I was right when I warned that once this principle is put in place, it will never end, but worse is what is happening now. This is no longer solidarity; solidarity is clearly voluntary. For now the European Union or the Commission is actually threatening to impose penalties on every rejected migrant if this does not take into account what it wants. For 4,000 rejected migrants, €1 billion is fined for the country. If that were to happen, then solidarity has nothing to do with it anymore, but with what I've been talking about. I used the term social experiment and I said it was the greatest, I say with all responsibility, this is the greatest social experiment since the collapse of three weeks of evil – fascism, Nazism and communism on European soil. This will lead to the permanent destruction of Europe and its culture if Europe does not act rationally; firstly, in the sense that it will only respect its own regulations consistently, because if none of what happened last year would have happened. But if anyone doesn't like this term, I quote Professor Matevž Tomšič, who used it the last time in a comment, Disruption in the heart of Europe, the same. Look, I quote, "and forced cultural interference," so the multiculturals, "remind similar violence against society, such as Marxist-Leninist social experiment." End of quote. If anyone has any comment, please contact a professor who is particularly involved in this area. When I talked about the mosque, which the Ljubljana mayor explains is a remarkable achievement, but I said that the foreigner is in this particular environment, I said that this is an architectural and historical alien. No one's gonna convince me I'm wrong. I think it is now one of those who are turning in the grave, including Mr Plečnik, who wanted to form Ljubljana as a modern European city with a very special Slovenian culture and wanted to do so in the image of a city that would remain for history. This has absolutely nothing to do with it. But if anyone thinks such a claim is serious, please see how the press report it. For example, I quote Mr Biščak on Twitter today, which he published: "This architectural pearl will continue to enrich the view of Triglav in editorial society today, a symbol of the Slovenians as a nation that has nothing to do with Islam, except that we have been slaughtered, raped and abducted by the Turks centuries ago." End of quote. So much for what it really is. Before he had a great deal to say about this subject, Mr Matić, who is sorry, I must say, in part of his debate he went into such a mockery that his forced hiccups reminded him of some sort of hyena with rabies, which is very sad, especially because he spoke today as someone who also represented the position of the largest government party, namely SMC. We would expect this debate to be at an appropriate level, as well as to be adequately reasoned. Now that he was also talking about the things I was talking about, he was turning his mouth. I actually said the last time that the Swiss even sent tanks to the area against Brenner, not to Brenner; Brenner was, of course, between Italy and Austria. But why – because the Swiss concluded that they would know the current, because of course the current did not stop, only most are now coming to Italy and it is assumed that they will try to break through Brenner to the north if it is now closed there – because the Austrians have actually begun to lock up and with a fence and a living force – so that they can turn against Switzerland. That's why the Swiss did it. Now, if anyone thinks it's funny and makes fun of it, I have to say, honestly, they feel very sorry for me, and I feel even more sorry for those who have elected him and the country that he is running. I'm sorry. I don't think that's appropriate. I hope we all get to the point where we start using real concepts. There's no such thing as a multiculture, at least not a successful multiculture. Do you know what a multiculture is in practice? Paris was a multiculture, Cologne, and a hundred other cities, with taharrus gamea, disgusting mass rapes. It was a multiculture. So Brussels is a multiculture, and now, unfortunately, there is a very high probability that Paris was once again a multicultural. For when he mocked me when I said it was very likely that there was terrorism on the plane — there is no need to have a lot of imagination to find out — if this was even funny to anyone in the morning, let us look now, as our media report that there is a mass investigation of all employees at Charles de Gaulle Airport in Paris, because they are already investigating who brought explosives into the plane. It is said that there is really no reason for ridicule, but for compassion for those who are victims of tragedy, the victims of the mindless leftist political multicultures in Europe, once again unnecessary victims. When the SMC made a mockery of what I was saying about the economy. Look, I've been saying this, and I've specifically pointed out that there are congestions of larger vehicles that keep some of them at the border for a long time, like trucks, buses. This is not only in Karavanka, of course, but it was also in Shentil, and you will not believe it, but longer columns are between Germany and Austria even, because this is now occurring throughout Europe. What is the tragedy of Europe? But remember I said that a year ago. If Europe does not protect external borders, the internal borders will begin to grow; and this is happening. I'm sorry. And it costs money. This costs enormously, especially in Slovenia, because already entrepreneurs are overburdened by huge leviary taxes, which are not otherwise managed by countries but by this way, and now have additional burdens. Time is money, if nothing else, but it's also about other aspects. If we look at this even more from the point of view that it is now predicted that ordinary citizens and citizens will be even more taxed to be even more inflatable than the Property Tax Act, that there will be a new, even higher inheritance tax and gifts – by the way, the neighbouring Austria does not know him at all – this means that we will exhaust the last reserves, that we will actually dissipate people in that last family property, which is usually represented by their family house and little garden. This should be dealt with seriously, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is what this is about. Of course, the economic problem is wider, because the fact is that if people don't have a sense of security, it has a certain impact on the economy. This is the indirect cost of the economy, which is reflected in the strengthening of the crisis across Europe, and in Slovenia in general, the forecasts are getting worse. Why? For entrepreneurs, if the environment is not stable, they will not invest, at least they will not invest in risky investments, there will be no new productive jobs, and people will feed, which is an impulse that appears anywhere in the world, money at home, or even more in banks where it is too much. The money will not go around, it will not run the economy, and that is why the economy will then go down in the spiral of stagflation, as this is actually happening here. This is also one of the aspects that we should take very seriously today, especially when dealing with those who have authority. Instead, you prevented them from accepting any conclusions at all. Even when it comes to foreign policy, ridicule, denial made by the SMC representative at the expense of the Multi-Citizen Group, it is extremely inappropriate. Firstly, it is the neighbours who have been ready and ready to help us, where the only appropriate security and economic ties are such that they can set an example for the whole of Europe. Secondly, let us first see what real politics is like in your own governments. Indeed, in this House - including that SMC gentleman who had previously mocked - voted against the proposal for a decision, I proposed it on behalf of the SDS at that time to strengthen cooperation with the Multi-Citizen Group and to make formal contact with it, and you refused. But you will not believe it, a month later I was a guest on the National Security Council, led by the President of the Government, where all the ministers were also the President of the State and there was full agreement on cooperation with the Multi-Citizen Group; and immediately thereafter he followed the visit of Pahor in the Czech Republic to strengthen relations with the Multi-Citizen Group. Once again, with the full agreement of the Government. So, what kind of mockery is this? First, at least ask yourself so much that you will know what the real policy of government is, and then speak. And finally, as far as culture is concerned. It can be a cultural enrichment of the taharrus game for someone, but forgive me if 20, 40 men go after one girl, rape her, fight her, hurt her for the rest of their lives, and then many of them even brag about it on the Internet – you can look for the video and look for yourself – and boast about it; yes, we were seven and we had her, after she was all bloody, and we pushed her down to show her what the real men are. This is no cultural enrichment. Therefore, beware of what has been given you, not into your own possession, but in the confidence that you will preserve for the next generations; this is our Slovenia, its security and its well-being. Because of this here for naivety, or ignorance, or because of me, the total ignorance shown by the SMC representative should not be the least tolerance and the smallest space. Not one and not the other. Decisions must be based on knowledge, on the fact that we know what we are facing, where the challenges are, and on the challenges we are talking about, as normal cultural dialogue requires [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u187	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proponents are given the floor. Boštjan Šefic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just two short cases. Once again, I must make it very clear that as far as the Minister of the Interior and of course the Ministry and this terminology and understanding of what a refugee is, when a refugee is, when a applicant is, when a migrant is, and so on, that we have undoubtedly been those who have very precisely defined this and here too. That's another thing. I think it is only wrong to associate terrorism with these migrations or migrants. Terrorism was also ahead of these migratory waves, including the Mediterranean flow, along the Mediterranean route and even before this Western Balkan route was formed. Of course, it poses a certain risk, and we have also explicitly stated this in the security assessment presented in the National Assembly. This is how we are aware of these matters, but I think it is wrong that we are exclusively linking terrorism with these migrations now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u189	The final word is given by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I see that one of them has returned, so I'll say this: Mrs Servant, you haven't told me what it is yet. I've been asking you all day to explain to me which sentence was hated and where was the sowing of fear. Look, I have 10 minutes, I'll leave two minutes for you -- I don't know if the chairman will let you, but I really want to help you say that because you failed to tell or went somewhere, and I don't know where. If I go in line. Mr Matić had previously been pleased to read an article of the type Al-Qaeda on how the Slovenian Democratic Party had not been invited to sign any of Mr Pöttering's signatures. The data we checked with him now shows that the husband is looking a little shabby because he doesn't know what it's all about. He just doesn't understand that the media could still be what we have, and that any such article that came from Mrs Matta Roglic's pen in Dnevnik today could have been produced in Europe at all. He doesn't understand, you know. In fact, to write an article saying, "Oh, the SDS wasn't invited to any signature, Mr Pöttering hasn't answered our question, but SDS is silent. See, that's what Al-Qaeda does there in Al-Jazeera or what's already called that television." [[…]] That's the principle of action, but that's where this fear depends, and not here, and this kind of propaganda doesn't work because you check the source of information and you find that it's meant to be propaganda. Now this lady is looking again for three Members who are supposed to go somewhere, and I don't know where the three Members should go either; but she doesn't know who they are, but she knows they are three. She knows they're three, but she doesn't know who they are. That's interesting. Look, it's a reporting system. Okay. Let's go to this work, which concerns more I had to respond for a fundamental reason, because you are the principles of this topic, Mr Matić. [[…]] I'm very pleased, Secretary of State, if it's true that at least 67% of CS people have been fingerprinted. This still means that 33% were without them, but 67 seems relatively large to me, given that the chief of police, I think in February, he was talking about 25, 32%. Well, anyway, I have to believe some official information that you gave, but that is also the answer to the question about the DNA that Mr Matić was so pleased to explain. You can't find out from the DNA found in Paris if someone went illegally across Slovenia; if you don't even know who it is. If you don't know who it is. We do know, however, that many of these did not have either fingerprints or documents or false documents. You reacted to what I said the fairy tale government was selling. This was essentially more meant in the sense that she kept repeating one and the same story over and over: we are ready, we are doing everything, we are controlling everything; and then they were pushed 13 thousand times across the border. In this context, I've been talking about these fairy tales. I am very glad that you have commended the Croatian government that since the right government, you have now cooperated well. I believe it will be even better when it is right in Slovenia, but you know, because then success is guaranteed, we have nothing here. Okay, just a few more sentences to conclude. The problem of the migrant crisis, or all that it brings with it – you claim that Slovenia is not very much concerned now, but thank God that even those who apply for asylum leave here and come back, you need to know – is a very serious problem to deal with it in the way it is, say, today, Mr Matić. It's a simple problem. You should be aware, especially the government should be aware of it, the coalition is so, you're just some group that got on a train yesterday, and now you don't know where this booze is going to stop and when someone's going down. However, the government is the most responsible in this area, it should be the one not only to take all these measures in time and so forth, not only that, but to a much greater extent and with much greater seriousness due to the excessive problem posed by this problem, to involve the opposition. If I now put myself in my role between 2004 and 2008 as Secretary of State in the first government of Janez Janša, in charge of communication with Parliament and the parties in Parliament and so on, then I can imagine how this would have happened at that time. Most likely, he would have been quite a regular guest in the then opposition. He'd probably be quite a regular. Why? Because they would try to hear the voice of the opposition, they would try to collect from the opposition – thank God that they would say something smart and good – and incorporate it into some common measures of this country, which would also be easier to go through parliament because they would have some support from the opposition. Mr Han was in Parliament at the time, he knows how these things were going, say, in that so-called partnership for development. What is the problem with us — what is the problem? We have a problem in this – I have previously proved to you with numbers – that many meetings of the National Assembly, many meetings of committees and so on, the committees for the supervision of security and intelligence services are called upon by the opposition, when the coalition is negligent, why we need to talk about this and so on. Which is not good at all. This is not good for the country, nor for the measures taken by the government, and not for the citizens of this country. This country deserves simply better leadership in this area, it deserves better leadership, and here it is difficult to challenge it. But you stand up – and the government, above all, and consequently the coalition – and put yourself on some trench called whatever the opposition signs, we will reject that. And then we come to a conclusion that we've met and you push against. [[…]] We've been sitting for six hours in a session, and then you're against it, even though you've met. That's not a good way to work. I call on you that in the coming time, but this time can also be in view of today's topic, which we have on the agenda, the real problem of migrants, can still be important, with two aspects. For the first time, if these paths are reopened, as the Secretary of State has said, after the elections, what will happen in Macedonia and how the new government will react – if any – and how this will happen, there will be a great deal of questions about the reactions there. There is a possibility that last year will happen again, so at this point the government should be counting on it. One statement made today by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior about what you are doing at the border with fences is not bad. Not bad, I'll say. What exactly is going on, I don't know. In short, we should take all measures to be ready for 17 September 2015 – October 2015. On 17 October 2015, it was the day that all this mass was pushed to the limits. However, the second aspect of the Government's action is, of course, that we are trying to find out who is the one who is facing international protection and to give it to these people, who are now here in a rather determined and rapid process. All that doesn't belong to them and the plane goes home. That's clear, too. But from a safety point of view, I wouldn't particularly speak. Here, probably, we are involved in a broader system and this broader system will be the one that, with some average normal cooperation of our services, can provide some optimal security. But to the coalition, I will only say this: if we ever have such a topic again, a similar topic, and in general – think about it a little bit. If this team of our co-workers could lead the European Union and could successfully lead Slovenia 2004-2008, then think about the ignorant attitude that you are always against. Maybe it'll flash something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can see that. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for a recommendation from Dr Vinko Gorenak and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm guessing there's no time available. I therefore conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 21.35 p.m. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-05-20-SDZ7-Redna-19.ana.u192	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Slovenian State Holding Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian State Holding Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 28th item of the agenda, this is Mandating-voluntary matters. We move on to the consideration of the draft decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the Health Committee The draft decision was submitted to the Parliament by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Vice-President Nada Brinovšek of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the Health Committee and Vice-President Marijan Pojbič, also from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as Vice-President. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal to amend the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the motion for a decision on discharge of the President and the appointment of the President of the Committee on Justice The draft decision was tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. Does the representative of the proposer wish to further explain the proposal? No, no, no. Emissary groups? Not at all. Then we're done presenting our views. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision by which the President of the Committee on Justice is dismissed by Mr Matjaž Germany and is appointed President, Mr Jan Škoberne. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 60 of them voted against and no one was present. [[There were 60 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection following a reduced procedure. Since the Government has pointed out that, due to the amendments adopted after the third reading, the proposal for a law has not been harmonised, the Government, as a proposal for a bill, has prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 8 which you have received and published on the e-club. He wants to discuss the harmonisation amendment by a government representative? No, no, no. Would you like a word from the Member of Parliament and Members? Not at all. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 8. We're voting. There were 70 Members and Members present, 51 for whom there were no votes against. [[51 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are still moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There were 70 Members and Members present, 51 votes against. [[51 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 19th meeting of the National Assembly.
