ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members; ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 24th meeting of the assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Dr. Franc Trček by 17:00, Mr Andrej Chuš by 13:00, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Jernej Vrtovac from 17:00 on and Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're going to continue with four. This is an additional proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. Before we go to the debate on the 2018 supplementary draft budget, we must conclude the decision on the procedural proposal submitted yesterday by Mr Jože Tanko, Head of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group, on the government's information on the outcome of the negotiations with the representative trade unions. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: On the basis of Article 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the 4th item of the agenda shall be suspended until the opinion of the Government and the Rule of Law has been obtained. Please check the operation of the voting devices. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It was 15 to 50. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. The individual parts are: firstly, General part; secondly, Special part and, thirdly, Plan of Development Programmes. Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u2	Good morning, everyone! The President, please explain to us how today's session will proceed. In the light of last night's committee, on a proposal from the Government, we have found that the Wage Action Act is not suitable for further consideration. And given what is said in this bill's explanation, and I will now read this, please tell me how you intend to carry out the process of adopting the budget forward; especially because you refused to get an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service. You, Mr President, said yesterday, from your chair, not from behind the pay phone, that if there is no law, there can be no budget vote. We can look at the magnetogram, we can roll the video back, you can nod; but that's it. And let's stop with the procedurals yesterday, because tonight, when the committee is done, we'll be clear. Nothing's clear. This is what you wrote in your explanation: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be dealt with by emergency procedure in order to avoid difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. The proposal for a law regulates emergency wage measures and other labour costs for public servants in 2017, which will help to achieve stable economic growth and a lasting structural balance of public finances." Finally: "Actions in the field of salaries and other labour costs in the public sector, if this law were not in force, would significantly increase the expenditure provided for in this Title in 2017, resulting in difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State." Who will be responsible for these hard-to-reparable consequences? Perhaps it is right for you to tell us clearly what these hard-to-repar consequences are. But above all, I'd like to know how you plan on doing today.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u3	As you have found, the working body has suggested that the proposal for a law under item 5 of the agenda, which is an integral part of the budget package, is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of this decision, the assembly will most likely reject this law, which has been tabled. I now note the following facts: The Government has submitted to the National Assembly an updated draft budget for 2018 3. 11. 2016, which means that the National Assembly must adopt the entire budget package in accordance with Article 161(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly up to and including 18. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The legal basis that the draft budget in this case cannot or cannot be considered is not. The procedure for the consideration of the draft budget shall be governed by the rules laid down in Section 3a of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, Articles 155 to 165. All conditions are met for the National Assembly to consider the budget; however, if anyone considers the budget to be inconsistent, he may vote against it after the discussion has ended. The question of possible non-coherence will arise when the vote on the parts of the supplementary draft budget has been concluded; once the president has determined whether the draft budget is harmonised on revenue and expenditure and on parts. In doubt, the chairman shall request the opinion of the Government and the home working body on the basis of Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, the question is whether the rejection of the draft law under item 5 of the agenda has any impact on the budget, the substantive, the economic question to which the budget proposal is responsible. This is not a legal issue, so the Legislative and Legal Service cannot give an opinion on this. In view of this, it does not make sense by a possible decision under Rule 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure — what we have just rejected — to require of it, since it cannot give a substantive opinion in any case. However, in the debate on the supplementary draft budget, the Government may discuss this and give appropriate answers. It does not make sense, however, that the National Assembly, with possible decisions pursuant to paragraph 3 of Rule 73 of its Rules of Procedure, undertakes to give an opinion on its acts. On the basis of Rule 116(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Government may give an opinion on the acts of other applicants and the decisions of the National Assembly may comment on its acts in the debate on those acts, which I also expect. In the examination of item 5 of the agenda, it may give an opinion in the introductory part on the proposal of the parent working body, although it is not legally necessary to do so, since there is no legal basis to do so; this does not take into account the application of paragraph 2 of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, since it is not a supplementary explanation of the applicant; it is the third paragraph of Article 134, which states that the representative of the applicant may present the position of the applicant to the proposal of the parent working body. In view of all the above, the meeting may continue to discuss the remaining points in the budget package, as all the business conditions for this are met. There is no reason to interrupt points. However, after the debate he will decide, the second question is the responsibility of the assembly itself. But the treatment has to end, and this has already been said, by 18. 11. 2016 pursuant to Article 161(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Procedurally, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Today's budget is 2018 and 2017. President-in-Office, regardless of all legal formulations; today it is a state. I propose that this assembly decide on a substantive and national basis, on the basis of all the information it needs to be able to decide on the budget and on the fate, the future of the country of Slovenia. On the basis of what is happening in substance or has happened, which means that we do not have all the data and that the budget is not, as it is called, closed, the National Assembly cannot decide on this from a substantive point of view, irrespective of all the legal formulations you have made. Today we do not have an item in the budget, these are the salaries of the public sector. These are incomes, 160,000 people, we don't know what we're going to give. This government has not been able to negotiate today, yesterday and through the night, and in all months until today. The government of this coalition has failed to negotiate with the most powerful party that said it would agree on all essential matters. It's not about pay. Therefore, neither from a methodological point of view nor from a substantive point of view can we discuss this because the discussions need to be based on data, on relevant information; not on some information if it were and how it would be. And based on this debate that we could have done if we had all the information, we can make decisions. But we can't make decisions in advance if we don't have all the data. I therefore propose that this point be terminated and that it continue when Members and Members have all the information, in particular information on what the government will devote to the public sector. As long as it's not, we can't have this kind of debate, let alone make decisions; we can't even discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u5	Each procedural proposal deserves a separate hearing, and then we'll go to the next one. Your procedural proposal is to suspend the meeting for substantive reasons. I would like to draw attention to two points: for the first time, we are at the 2018 budget point. We haven't come to point five yet. Secondly, I point out that a similar situation or even worse – the proposal has not yet been tabled in 2012 to adopt the 2013 budget. It's not a unique situation, it's not an extraordinary situation. Obviously, this has already happened in the practice of this Parliament, which I find behind. The substantive reasons, without the Government explaining, certainly the substantive reasons for the suspension of the meeting, do not exist at this point in time. In my previous explanation, I explained what the problem is and that we must allow a debate on these issues because the procedural reasons for this are met. It's not the first time. It's not the first time. Some governments have dared not come to the National Assembly with this law at all and adopt a budget. Brave. In this case, at least the experiment was made, and based on what was on the parent's working body, we know where we are with the experiment. We already have an example in practice that such a budget has been adopted. The framework is set and I think we can discuss it further. Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u6	Dear President, I intended to propose something else, but now I demand that you tell us when in the history of the Republic of Slovenia the budget package, whose part of this year is also the law on wage measures, changed during the adoption. I demand you say that. Do not deceive us and not deceive the Slovenian public. Initially, you have rightly concluded that this law is part of the budget package. And it hasn't happened yet, it hasn't happened that the National Assembly has rejected any part of the budget package, and everything else has been accepted as being independent. I demand you explain to me when that happened. I hope that you have fully understood my question of when the law or act within the budget package has been rejected and the coalition and the government have pushed their way to the end, as you are doing today. You are introducing parliamentary practice which is unacceptable. And it was those who had you full of mouths about the rule of law, about respect for the rules, about the new legal standards. But when I find out when it was, I have a new procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u7	There will be no need for a new procedural proposal. First, you will tell me the basis on which you can ask the President in the sense that he answers any question. There are no such requirements. There is no basis in the existing one that we cannot move forward without this answer. I explained the contents. You may disagree and express your disagreement with the procedural proposal, and I believe that you have answered my question, although the procedural proposals are not intended to do so, but are intended to guide the meeting. And it must have a basis in the existing rules of procedure. Not that someone at that moment seems to have to react in a certain way. However, it is possible to discuss all of this in the debate. The other part, which concerns qualifications, I do not think is part of the procedural proposal. They're far too much because they don't justify it, but they're essentially meant to offend certain people in this House. I don't see any need for us to go to this level. Procedurally, third time, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u8	You know what, Mr President, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is also not the case that the President of the National Assembly is deceiving. That's why I asked, and now I ask you to tell us what year what happened today. I can probably find out this as a member of the National Assembly if the President is telling the truth that I am not using anything else to answer that question. Tell me, what year did what you're doing today happen? You have begun to make excuses for parliamentary practice. Therefore, once again, I ask you to explain to me and to the entire Slovenian public when such a thing has happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u9	In this case, I shall now turn to what I have already announced I will. I am responding to this procedural proposal. I will ask the Government, I will give them the floor to explain in substance how budget adoptions have taken place so far, how and how complete the budget packages that have been discussed in this national assembly have been. What about another procedural one? Before that? I say I answer that by giving the government the word to explain the matter. Procedurally, mag. Andrey Shircelj, second time.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u10	Dear President, it is right that we also consider these procedural ones, and I hope that we will have a long count today if you have already started counting. You asked me before, I wasn't on the microphone, if you're procedural again, before that. Mr President, I'd like you to follow the rules of procedure. That's all I can say. And if he has a procedural advantage, then give me your word; and give it to me. If you don't think so, or if you decide to do so, then it's a different matter. Let me get to the procedure. Please explain in substance how it is possible to discuss a matter and decide on the basis of the debate if we do not actually have all the elements. However, you said that my first procedural proposal was justified by you saying that it had already occurred in 2012 or in 2013 or in 2011 it had been so decided. This is not a substantive explanation, this is a procedural explanation. I want a substantive explanation. And my procedural proposal is substantive. And I'm saying it again. We do not have an item, we do not have an amount of expenditure for all public sector salaries in 2018. We are also reminded of this by the European Commission when, in its last position, it considers the budget of Slovenia to be very critical. And we can't, without not wanting to, it's completely illogical, it's totally unreal, it would be completely confusing if we actually decided on a budget that provides life, as you said yesterday, in this country on the basis of incomplete data. Based on the fact that data are not even harmonised with the social partners, which is the basis for the budget. And regardless of the practice. Perhaps the practice was similar under different circumstances. We need to look at all the circumstances. And you can't, President, even if it was a practice and if it was a bad practice, no matter what government, pull this practice forward. This is not a substantive answer that you will say – it was bad practice and let us do bad work today or even worse. I do not agree with this as a responsible Member that I do not agree that I have a President of Parliament who draws bad practices in order to get something through. Let's have a meaningful conversation. Let's put our cards on the table. Let's see where we are. Let's see where you're at with your paychecks. And on that basis, we decide whether we can talk about it or not. I therefore propose that this item of the agenda be terminated.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u11	Secondly, you propose to stop for the same reason, that's all I'm warning you about. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have reminded you that the Government has tabled a fictional budget when we discussed this budget package. Yesterday, the unanimous Internal Policy Committee voted that the law was not suitable for further consideration; unanimously. And this confirmed that that warning from that college was justified. And today, when you force the consideration of this budget, the condition set out in Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 155 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the Government must submit all documents relating to the budget. Today we do not have one document in the procedure relating to the budget! The government fictitiously did it, gave the title of the law to make things shut down. And the coalition MPs have unanimously confirmed that this law is not now. So the budget package isn't perfect right now. And not now deceiving the public that it is something it is not. I warned yesterday at about five o'clock when we received this document in hand that the matter was not harmonised and concluded that the matter should be terminated for as long as the conditions for hearing were not met. Mr. German ignored it, refused to consider it. Then somehow we came to the point that we even voted on it. But such a violent treatment, Mr President, is not possible. You've fallen into the swamps, deep into the swamps, and now you're forcing us to go even deeper into this swamp, where there's nothing but living mud. Let's just calm down for once and be careful! When we need documents, you reject them; when we need written documents and explanations, you reject them. This morning you voted not to need it, and now you force the government to make an oral comment. What are you doing?Oh, my God! What are you doing?Oh, my God! It's a joke from us that we want to take some stuff seriously. Yesterday we wanted a written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, whether the conditions are met or not, we requested a written opinion from the Government, whether the conditions are met or not; you refused to do so, but now the Government will explain orally what it thinks about this matter. Not even the government, but a minister who's not even a major negotiating partner. Don't make fun of me! Stop the session, provide the conditions for consideration to be decent, and then we'll talk further.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u13	These are the terms of the hearing. We are at the point of the budget 2018. The law that is still in the process and the budget package is full until it is decided by the National Assembly because the National Assembly decides at the end, at any time of rejection or inadequacy of the law, refers to a period of 1. 1. 2017 to 31. 12. 2017; we are considering the 2018 budget. What I'm asking the Government is to explain the history of budget investment that [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] A government representative with a substantive answer, please, because you can't really ask me any substantive questions. I am responsible for the management of the meeting, so that the procedures run as they must run as provided for in the Rules of Procedure; and this is where the matter ends. While I speak, in principle others do not speak; or one speaks in the Assembly of State, and one knows who assigns the word. That's why I'm asking you to stick to it. I saw yesterday with the bench how this thing looks even more like it and is totally inappropriate. Speaks the one who has a word in the National Assembly on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And as I said before, I'm going to ask the government to clarify this matter. Mr. Jože Tanko, second procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I now propose the next procedural proposal. I suggest that we first consider item 5 of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017. And then we move on. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose an amendment to the order in which the items of the agenda are dealt with, in order to clarify this fog once, whether the law is suitable for further consideration or not; and or whether the budget for 2017 - the effects are also for 2018 - meet the conditions for consideration or not. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose an amendment to the agenda for the consideration of items today, namely to first consider and decide on item 5 of the agenda, namely the law which was unanimously rejected yesterday by the Committee on Internal Policy, and then we discuss how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u15	So you want between the point at which we are now to stop dealing with the point because we have already begun with the point. We've already started with the point and you want to skip the point in the middle of the point. The way we do this, we don't get it. We are already at the point of the budget 2018. We are absolutely at this point, we have not yet opened the debate. This point has been clear since last night. A review of this point has been initiated. I really don't get it. First, we must address this point to the end so that we can come up with a proposal to change the order. Since you have requested a change of order, we are voting on your procedural proposal. So you suggest that instead of the point 4, which is currently under consideration, this moment we begin to consider point 5. I have formulated your procedural proposal positively, and I expect that, after the decision of the entire assembly, the proceedings on this replacement will be over. I am putting to the vote this procedural proposal to first consider point 5 and to terminate the consideration of point 4 until we have completed the consideration of point 5. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 49. (For the vote was 18.)(against 49.) This procedural proposal is rejected. We continue with the consideration of point 4, this is the updated draft budget for 2018. Procedural mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u16	Mr President of the National Assembly, I think I have the right to ask you in accordance with Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure, and I now repeat my request, not that the Government, a minister who has been a minister for a few months, explain what has happened in the National Assembly in the past; but that you justify your words. You said, and that's the fact that this law is part of the budget package. And I want to hear clearly in which year any part of the budget package was found not to be suitable for further consideration and the procedure continued. You don't need a minister here. I ask you because you said this was in line with parliamentary practice. I don't know when the government has been interpreting parliamentary practice. Now, by the way. If you raise your salaries in 2017, this will also have an impact on the 2018 budget; there will be no doubt why this law, which we will reject, is important for 2018. This argument was also on the table to keep quiet because it says since 1. 1. to 31. 12th, then it's over. Far from it, Madam President. When you raise your wages in 2017, it is also drawn in 2018 and beyond. That's the facts, not just in public finances, but elsewhere. I will repeat this procedural proposal three more times, please tell me on the basis of your words – you have said this, that such parliamentary practice exists. I'm telling you, she's not here, but that's what I want to hear from you. Because it's not because you're introducing something that's unacceptable, you can, Madam President, you can. Otherwise, we're not in the classroom to be a professor, but we're students; the way we work is about that. You should be the president of all of us, and unfortunately this is not what we are receiving in this term. You are introducing a parliamentary practice that is damaging further, because everyone behind you is really going to be able to say that the Modern Centre Party has done so. There's no such thing until today. Please indicate clearly when, in the year in which the procedure was such that things in the budget package have withdrawn or have found that they are not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u17	The second time you asked for the exact same thing. I don't really know the answer to this question, which is why I can't give it. The answer to this question is not at all essential in order to continue the consideration of the draft budget, which is part of the 2018 budget package. We have just voted to proceed with this point. In fact, you turn against the decision of the entire assembly and demand [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, but I'm not gonna give you an answer because I don't know him. I have only been informed that imperfect matters have been dealt with another time; however, this package is not a complete one at this point in time. It will only become the moment we decide about it in this national assembly. However, in order to be able to decide on it, we need to hold a debate first. And this is procedurally what I have to see for myself in the whole matter. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear President, you have just said that we will be able to determine whether all the conditions are met or whether it is procedurally correct and also legally only when we hold the debate. I ask you how we can have a discussion if we have incomplete data and an incomplete proposal. I submit that the budget for 2018 is incomplete. And irrespective of formalism, it is also not in accordance with the Public Finance Act, which provides in Article 13, which documents must be submitted to the National Assembly. The Government must submit them to the National Assembly in order to be able to deal with them. Nor is it in line with the Fiscal Rule Act, which provides in the second paragraph of Article 7, that the Fiscal Council is preparing an assessment of compliance with fiscal rules on the basis of a proposal for a State budget, a proposal for changes to the State budget or a national budget balance submitted for adoption by the National Assembly. Furthermore, following the submission of the draft state budget and so on, the fiscal council will assess this. The Minister probably told you that this law does not prohibit the consideration of the budget regardless of this legal provision. That's right. No law forbids the National Assembly to talk about anything; however, this law imposes an assessment of the fiscal world. If everything was okay, if we had all the data, maybe we could close our eyes and say, 'cause there's no problem. But we don't have an assessment of the fiscal world, and this assessment is legally determined and we work with incomplete data. Please, because you said that formal everything is possible, once again I say that it is not possible and that the legal conditions are not met. I mentioned the Public Finance Act, mentioned the Fiscal Rule Act; and they were not implemented. However, we can discuss anything, including a beautiful day; but this does not apply to what I am telling you now, the legal conditions for the consideration of the 2018 budget are not met. If you feel otherwise, please explain this to me on the basis of legal provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u19	This is now the third procedural proposal, which listens to a substantive argument, so it is used for discussion. Instead of the debate, we use procedural proposals. This is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The misuse of the procedural proposal for a substantive discussion is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Third time's the same. First warning, mag. Andrey Shircelj. Third time's the same. Misuse of our time so we don't even get to the debate. Gradually, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Now you've highlighted what I wanted to point out myself. We are now talking almost one school or study hour about procedural proposals that are of a substantive nature; and we could already discuss them if we let the meeting finally begin. Since all of this proposal has so far resulted in, at least implicitly, one tendency of procedural candidates to re-vote whether all procedural conditions have been met, so that we can continue the meeting, but I suggest that you put this to the vote again; although it has been very clear to us at the outset, on your part, that all the business conditions are met by these documents for the continuation of the budgetary debate and that there are no procedural obstacles to finally not starting the substantive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u21	I propose to the vote that we proceed with the debate. Yes, we are continuing the debate on a substantive basis. It was a procedural proposal to continue with the substantive debate, which means if this proposal is to be adopted by this State Assembly at this time, at least for the beginning of the debate. [[…]] I answer it by voting on it at this time. There are no further procedural proposals until we do so. [[advertising from the hall]] Not because the president made that decision, but because it was the order we respected yesterday when the vice president led it. We'll vote after you get the word. I hope that something is really urgent, given that we are now voting on whether or not we can start a substantive debate. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, procedurally, fifth.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u22	And six times and seven times also, Mr. President, if you intend to lead the meeting this way. If I heard your client friend correctly, she said to find out that all procedural conditions were met. And I ask you to provide us with a lawyer, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Rules of Procedure Commission, who will tell us whether all procedural requirements have been met so that we can proceed with the debate. But no, you're this package, where your colleague climbed up a little bit, now you've done well in this way, you've come up with a proposal to continue the debate. Where are we?Oh, my God! Is it the National Council or is it a circus?Oh, my God! I'd rather talk about content, too, but unfortunately you've led this process to this stage. Farsa, it's a farce! And the state budget is the most important document in the country, and you work with it like this. Now give us everything! Please assure us that we can vote on Mrs Simone Kustec Lipicer's procedural proposal. And not by just turning around a little bit, but by writing or putting to the vote: For everything is as it should be, let us continue the debate. And this substantive debate that one of us does not dare to make any more procedural proposals. President, listen to yourselves, please! Listen to yourself and start doing what you were appointed to do in the National Assembly by your colleagues. We are all Members and Members, with the same status, you are only one of us. And please, I'm talking to myself right now, at least treat me like this. Indeed, what is happening today in this national assembly is unacceptable. Unacceptable! I haven't been in a long time, but for a few years, something like this hasn't happened in the National Assembly. My procedural proposal before the vote on the continuation of the debate, I would like to have the assurance - you, as President, tell me who will give it - that everything is in line with the acts, rules, laws, as proposed by your client colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u23	Firstly, they would not be at this point if everything were not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. All the jobs have done what they have to do in this regard. The National Assembly is the one who decides how and how it will work. We are now ahead of a decision whether to open a substantive debate or not, or to continue with the procedural debate. It was suggested that the procedural end is at this point, not that they are then banned, but at this point; and that we at least open the substantive debate. It was the day of this proposal, so I recognized it myself. [[advertising from the hall]] Don't argue with me! Please! Conditions for continuation of work are likely to be disrupted by [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It was the day of this proposal, and we will vote on it, as I said. [[advertising from the hall]] That's how I understood him. I ask the proposer whether my proposal has properly taken its intent. I'll procedurally give her my word as soon as you get procedural. Procedurally, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. You're going too far this time. There has been no such thing in Parliamentary democracy in Slovenia, I think; for if it were, Slovenia would not be a single and free country. What do you want to do with this budget today? You want to make an egg-free omelet. You have ingredients, the most important of which is missing or one of the most important. And you're telling us that you're going to get this ingredient one more time, let's have a roasted omelet. But what happens to eggs-free omelet is falling apart. And what you have allowed yourself today to face the explicit question that there are no relevant documents, and you have refused to do so in the past. And then you said to the explicit questions, and I quote, "I don't know the answer, so I can't give it, but I've been informed that this has already happened." This should not be allowed by the President of the National Assembly to speak his mind and try to use fictitious stories, if it has already happened, to justify unfair, illegal parliamentary practice and to establish parliamentary practice. Therefore, my procedural proposal is as follows. First of all, apologize to Slovenian taxpayers for deceiving them because you have deceived them from the place of first among the same in parliamentary democracy. You said you had something, and then you pulled back. How do we know that you are not doing the same in other procedures or in the case of war situations?Oh, my God! What if, on the basis of your fictional story, there is a sequence that will have worse consequences?Oh, my God! And secondly, to obtain a magnetogram of the head of the SMC Group, and then ask exactly the same question of yours before the vote as the Member gave it; not as you understood it. For today's debate has already shown that you are adapting your conclusions and your discussions to what you want to get through. But the budget without the documents necessary for the budget – three documents of the fiscal world are missing and the payroll law is missing – you want to get through this procedurally. And in order for this not to happen, you will even reject the proposal to first decide on that point, which is next on the agenda. I propose two procedural decisions: a magnetogram of the leader of the parliamentary group is obtained and you apologize to the taxpayers for your previous statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u25	So it's all just because we don't vote on whether we continue with the substantive debate or not. I said I'd give the floor first to Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer; procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. Let me explain what I said and what I didn't say. But before that, I can do that, too, a magnetogram, if I understand it, it's working, I've made it very clear, but now I'm listening to it. I think we've exceeded all limits of common sense by what's going on here. And just to calm the ball down and take a responsible start with the state budget procedure and show our work responsibility and commitment to the people who have elected us and for whom we accept this budget, I suggest that we take a 45-minute break, clear our heads and invite us, as needed, to look at the tapegram, to see what I said and to agree, or how we will proceed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u27	I'm taking a 45-minute break. Leaders of parliamentary groups, in 15 minutes at my office.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue the adjourned session of the National Assembly. First, let me summarise the substantive part, which I also said at the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups that I would tell. The first part is that this year, as far as budget adoption is concerned, we are in a specific situation that is not entirely comparable to other situations, especially at this point of withdrawal of the law in the process itself. The fact is that there was no negotiations with the unions for the 2012 budget, so there was no document to regulate the matter at all, but the budget was adopted. There were also revenue items which were not legally implemented to the end, however, the budget was adopted. Parliament has found and voted that the law is in line with the Public Finance Act and has been voted on. In 2013, however, the subsequent resolution of one of the cases, when the third quarter was decided that it was necessary to legislate, came after the budget had already been adopted; of course, under the adopted budget, I must admit that. That's what I said. I'll tell you two things. That was what I was thinking back then. If anyone understood this as an insult, an attack on himself or anything, I can apologize. Let him also understand the whole matter, for this matter was not meant in any other way. We are moving on to the General Part of the 2018 Supplemental Draft Budget. Does anyone want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Nada Brinovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u29	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, I would say what happened here yesterday at the temple of democracy and today is very sad, but true. We are talking about the budget, and we do not know at all about what amounts, but even less about the content that we read to the ministry yesterday. So we talk about what happens if it does; you know, if the onion didn't have a "if," it would be a flea. The fact is, I will repeat this once again that this government or ministry does not respect legislation. I ask once again, although, Presidents, you said earlier, and also by your fellow Members, we get an explanation that all the conditions for the adoption of the 2017 budget and 2018 budget have been met. Then I'd say why we even have the Fiscal Rule Act. Why do we have to appoint a fiscal world in Article 7? I ask, do we have before us an assessment of the fiscal council for 2017, 2018? Do we have before us in these documents, which we are considering today and which we have dealt with yesterday, the government's opinion on this assessment of the fiscal world? On the other hand, I would say that the Ministry may have made a conscious decision and did not appoint a fiscal council because it was afraid of what assessment this fiscal council would give; for the fiscal council must assess whether this budget is balanced. When we consider a document as important as the budget, we do not have a variety of annexes, which are a mandatory component, this is just as much as if I were going to the administrative unit, putting in an application for a ID card, and I would be told by the referee on the counter that there is still a photo to be taken. Why would I take a photo; I don't respect the law, you do what you want, and you know it. On the other hand, I understand your conduct again, because we no longer need to comply with the legislation, but with some parliamentary practice, which is a new model of this coalition. If I go back to the fiscal world again. I hope it will be appointed at least this year or next year, as we have €500,000 in this budget for the functioning of the fiscal world in 2017 and 2018. This budget shows that it has been prepared without any serious commitments, after school and with some feeling, because even in these procedures, now that we meet with it, it is as if this government or coalition is just waiting to pass this mandate as soon as possible, even if it is premature. One more time. What is at the heart of this problem that we are alerting? There is no respect for legislation or assessment of the fiscal world and we do not have all the budgetary lines known. The Ministry of Finance is partly responsible for this, and in part also the Minister of Public Administration, who has been coordinating with the unions for nine months; but unfortunately it did not work out the way he thought it would. At the presentation of two and a half years ago, Minister Koprivnikar promised a slim public administration, I must say that in these two years we have received 3 000 051 new public servants, which will be spent or spent around 300 million in these years. What if I stop at the budget? I would say that this budget 2017, 2018 is almost as pointless to adopt as the decision on the real estate of the country. And why? If we look at the decree on the real estate of the country, we see that there is a lot of desire, of necessity, and I will say more of a wish; but then when we see the report on the realisation of these decrees, we see that the realisation is mainly in the area of availability of this asset at 1.15%, 3%. If I make a comparison, in 2017 the Ministry of Budget assumes that the sale of state property will be 74 million. If we then expect the realization to be around 1.5% or up to 3%, as in practice, we know how much we will get from this address. The same will happen in 2018. The same comparison as I said before, and I also think it's budget 2017 and 2018. I will say that budget 2017, 2018 and real estate management plan are somehow "in the clouds" as well as Koprivnik's information system. Don't forget about the real estate plan. Not only will I say that the low realisation of the sale of the property of the country, we are very successful in purchasing movable property, especially on the car line. This is as if the state were dealing with taxi service, not with the provision of welfare for citizens. While I am still in real estate, I am also interested in the budget 2017 and 2018, what is the state's real estate records. We know that the situation in this area is devastating. I wonder if the Ministry has a record of how many properties it owns? In the budget 2017 and also in the middle of 2018, I will stop at the health line. The priority of this government for 2017 is to be the health sector. Yesterday, I said that the Ministry had increased the budget line for health care by 15 million. You heard right, 15 million. The state thinks this will solve all health problems. I already warned you yesterday what belongs here. For 2018, which is even worse, there are 5 million. If I return to 2017, the Ministry of Public Administration has increased its figure by 15 million for 2017; however, there is no prior treatment of this government anywhere. To make a difference in the health field, let's see, the doctor's statement. I don't trust this government anymore, and I don't trust the minister anymore. If I stop a little longer in the area of local communities. This government is very pleased because they have agreed with the municipalities, I will say in the guidance that I will agree on the average for 2017 and 2018; this is €530 for 2017 and €536 for 2018. Do you know how long this average should be according to a regulation that is still legally valid? Strong over 600; 682 euros. Congregations are known to receive or be assigned tasks by the State, whether you believe it or not. The promises made by Minister Koprivnik that he would somehow reduce the costs to the municipalities, and I'll say again in the parable, and they're in the clouds. I will also compare work in the congregations and here in the National Assembly, which should be an example. I worked in a congregation. And when we adopted the budget, if the municipal administration thus submitted to the councils the budget that you, as this government proposes to us, I think that everyone in the congregation would go on their own — not because the citizens would drive us out — because they themselves would realize that it is wrong to leave. Colleagues, a lot of people have worked in the congregation, you don't have to say it out loud, but I believe you agree with me. Today and yesterday, what's going on here, I'm going to repeat the words of my colleague Alice when she said it was like a circus. But I'm going to say it's even worse, because in the circus, there's some kind of program running on a specific timeline, and it's very serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u31	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I am generally shocked that we have this debate today, or that we continue to consider the 2018 Complementary Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, because I am sure that the fact of this document has been established that it is misleading and incomplete. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I have pointed out this on Friday to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, to two key factors – there is no opinion of the fiscal council and of the law on public sector measures in the area of wages and general costs. And what can we do with these numbers and these papers? This is a misleading and incomplete situation. Dear Minister, on Friday on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy you could still get away with it, because you spoke a lot – the law is not removed from the procedure. The committee which examined this law suspended the meeting and did not withdraw the law from the procedure. Yesterday, however, the Committee unanimously agreed that the Law on Public Sector Measures in the Field of Wages and Other Costs was not suitable for further consideration. Dear Minister, I urge you to respond immediately to the Assembly and to explain to the general public the situation in which we are now, given that the Committee has rejected this law as inappropriate for further consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a magnetogram of Friday's session. What did you say? As I mentioned earlier, you dragged yourself out a lot by not withdrawing the law from the procedure, but delaying it. And now I'm interested in your comment. Mr President, I propose that the Minister responds without delay, so that we know how we will continue to debate. For we are discussing the budget, the most important document prepared by the Government; but they do not keep the numbers within it. I said on Friday that this budget prepared by the Government of Mira Cerar, the Party of the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats and Desus is fictional and virtual. And at a given time, Party of the Modern Centre, you may have chosen the right word, you are indeed modern, because such a budget The National Assembly in the history of Slovenia has not yet accepted. I'm sure we're stepping into an area that's dangerous. Because you're going to give a signal that it doesn't matter at all, or which numbers within the budget are held or not. Here you will present something; whether this number is real or not is another question. You are responsible for running the country, you are responsible for the standard of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Minister, what can we discuss today if these numbers don't hold? Because the marriage is now really out of procedure. I'm going to read what you said on Friday on the committee, and I'm going to be interested in your comment or addition to that. “Unless an agreement with the unions is reached and other measures are taken to limit the volume of public sector wages and 215 million additional funds or the state budget 129 million should be provided for the public sector as a whole”, this is now a fact, “that is a publicly insurmountable number, meaning that in the event of non-response it will have to be cut by other measures.” Dear Minister, tell us what measures you will take. What measures will you take? You didn't want to define yourself on Friday because you said the matter was still in the air. The matter is still pending, negotiations are continuing. Now that law has been revoked. What measures will you take, Madam Minister, to replace the 129 million and 215 million figures you have presented to the Committee? This is a crucial question for me to know which way we are at all. It was mentioned that you would linearly reduce the salaries of public servants by 1.44%. Nice. The President of the Government and ministers boast of the success of the measures and reforms adopted by the Government of Mir Cerar, the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus in Slovenia. What is the over-average economic growth in Slovenia compared to other countries of the European Community? There was only a word missing that Slovenia was currently gushing among the members of the European Union. Today, you will propose to lower wages in the public sector; to lower wages in economic growth and in successful measures. Will you also reduce your pension? Where will you make up for this 129 million, or 215 million, respected minister? These are your words you have spoken on the committee; and I expect you to take action. It is irrelevant for me to talk here about a virtual fictional budget. A respected coalition, if there is no budget, there is no government. And if you are not able to adopt a budget, then I suggest that the Prime Minister resign and step down. For there has never been such a situation in Slovenia, such as the situation of the government of Miro Cerar, the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus. And you're responsible for this, all of you. You didn't come to the government two months ago. Your term has been over two years. One year you couldn't make a deal with the unions, with the social partners, your employers got out. You still haven't answered what's gonna happen. Is there even a social agreement? We're talking to the social partners, and on the other hand, the employers have gone out. I'm sure the situation here is unsustainable. And the result – we can listen to union representatives who say that for 2017 it is 32 million, but, dear Minister, you said it is 129 million and 215 million. That's the result of what? This is due to what you agreed to with the unions last year. Your deal is here. But you can't argue here that the result of this situation is the agreement of the government of Alenka Bratušek or the agreement of the government of Janez Janša. You are responsible for the entire situation in the country today. This is really unsustainable, what has never happened in Slovenia. And you explain about economic growth, about successful measures; then you come and you say, "Look, we're going linearly to cut wages." If you go linearly to reduce wages, what measures will remain?Oh, my God! Will you now go linearly to reduce wages in the range of 215 million and 129 million? I don't know. Are you going to make it to 31? 12. in the National Assembly and will you propose to raise the value added tax? How will you get these millions? We are not talking today about 10, 20 million that you will be able to move; we are talking about 129 and 215 million. What will Brussels say to such a fictional budget? I have mentioned many times in this and in the previous mandate that we do not accept the budget for Brussels, but we accept it for ourselves. However, it will have to be here, because probably the information goes to Brussels too, so that these numbers do not hold, drink no water, a respected minister and a respected coalition. Dear coalition, honourable Members, I really don't understand why you claim so much why you insist on who is misleading your hands. Dear Minister and well-respected government, I find it extremely irresponsible, including your statements in public. Then you say, "Now the Members will have to do this." The government and the ministerial assembly have done their part and will now be responsible for Members and Members. Dear coalition MPs, imagine who you have above you. The government is unable to agree with the unions in one year, and then they come in front of the television and say, "Now it's on the shoulders of Members and Members, we've done our part. I think it was extremely unrealistic if they convinced you to – support this budget and we will make a deal by the end of the year. These are dangerous practices. I think that you have already entered Slovenian history in certain segments, when you in an unconstitutional way took away our President's mandate. I think that you are now taking steps, pushing the way that your historic decisions will be made by this government in the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus will be a species. All these measures and all your decisions go primarily to the detriment of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I will say again – there is no budget, there is no government, because the country cannot work without a document; and today we are talking about 2017 and 2018. In 45 days we will enter 2017. Dear Minister, I don't believe you. I didn't believe you when you were Secretary of State. And not once, always; let's just remember the real estate tax law, by the middle of the morning you've been here defending and I believe you'll be going back on the same road today, defending how relevant these numbers are and not doing any damage. It's a shame to do it, Minister-respected, to a lot of people. There we read that there are 7,000 children without lunch, a warm meal; no, you will accept it. And then you say, Now here is the decision of the Members and Members to take responsibility, and we have done our part. For the first time in the history of Slovenia. You threw some numbers in there, but they don't. Madam Minister, I urge you to tell Members and Members of Parliament and the general public what measures these will take to close this matter, because 129 million and 215 million cannot be locked up overnight and with one sweep. Mr President, I call on the Minister to stand up and say these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Mag. Matthew Vraničar Erman will assess when the time will be right for him to answer you and anyone else. Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I hope the Minister will answer some more questions. I'm actually going to insist on these answers. They come from her words. Yesterday, when presenting the budget for 2017 and 2018, she spoke about Slovenia becoming an economic sovereign. The President of the Government said that these two budgets were fiscally sustainable, that we would go for better, in short, to run between milk and milk. I wonder, Madam Minister, does she keep information that she will have a European Commission or already has a press conference where she will assess the budgets of the Member States? Is this Brussels press conference supposed to start at 11:00? That it is known that Slovenia belongs to countries where there is a risk that the budget is not in line with EU budget rules – at risk of non-compliance with EU budget rules? I wonder if you know this information, and that this classification in this group of countries, where there are seven other countries, represents the worst estimate? That there are other countries in a group where it can be mostly consistent, etc. This is an assessment of the budget that we have before us today and does not include any additional expenditure; or any additional measures for 129, 150, 250, etc., we do not even know how much, because we cannot talk, how much, respected Vice-President, what we are talking about at all. We can't talk about how much we're gonna miss. We can't talk about what we're going to do today. We cannot talk today about how much interest will be paid by future generations because we do not have all the data. Excuse me, can you give me one more reminder if I ask that this is substantively unsustainable, that it is professionally unsustainable, that it is disrespectful of the National Assembly to send the government of Mira Cerar to the National Assembly such a budget that it is disrespectful to the National Assembly? Disrespect for Members and Members. I'm asking if you know this information. How do you comment on your words yesterday, where you said about the economic sovereignty of the country and how everything is consistent? How will Brussels view additional expenditure and additional risks? Yesterday we spoke and government representatives said how wonderful it is to be praised by Brussels; but we are among those countries that are actually critical and valid – probably some worse group, yes, of course, we have had the case of Cyprus, Greece, troika and so on, we do not belong there. Can we be satisfied now?Oh, my God! It's not gonna be a random answer, because it's not the worst, because there's still a three. Tell me, Minister, and identify yourself with your words yesterday about how good we are and how we are in line with Brussels. With regard to the 2018 budget, I would like to ask if you can determine how much money the country will receive from the sale of assets. You said that this is not stated in the budget if you do not want to prejudge any things; but that does not mean that you do not have this plan and these sales. If this is not for the public, I propose that the Vice-President close the public meeting on this subject. The public is told that NLB will be sold. Tell me how much you plan on selling it. Close the public session, no problem. Or tell the European Commission you won't sell it. I hope to ask these questions, Mr Vice-President, whether I will receive any further reminders. Tell me how many dividends the country will get from SDH and DUTB. Tell us what you will do with the DUTB and SDH and what criteria guide the government in the recruitment of the SDH supervisory board and the non-executive DUTB directors. List the criteria on which the persons who manage Slovenian property are selected. There is also an item in the State budget for the financing of the foreign ministry. Economic diplomacy plays a strong role in financing the foreign ministry. Please tell the Minister-designate or any minister from this government or the President of the Government how much revenue is foreseen from the effects of economic diplomacy. And how many direct economic, economic investments have you planned in Slovenia since the operation of economic diplomacy? Health resources have been increased. I ask the Government how many days will it take to reduce waiting lines on the basis of this increase in resources for individual specialists. It should be known that every eighth citizen or citizen is waiting for a specialist in this country under the rule of Mira Cerar and Minister of Health of the Mir Cerar quota. How much longer are the waiting lines going to go down? As a result, in view of the health and health situation, please tell me whether an increase in health resources reduces the risk of increased mortality because people are waiting in waiting lines. And how much do you think there have been fatalities because people have waited too long in waiting lines? That's for the government to answer. I look forward to these answers, Mr Vice-President, and these answers are important for the functioning of this country, for citizens and citizens, because this government does not have the money it will give to each sector, no action at all, according to my assessment. And I want the government to convince me otherwise. I want him to tell me, and I want him to tell me the truth, and that he actually holds that the government has measures and that these measures will have such and such effects. Since we're going to give health care so much and so many millions more, the risk of mortality is going to be lower, it's going to be a better chance of life. I hope I'm not asking something that I shouldn't. Madam Vice-President, I now see that it is a little more liberal in this regard; because if I ask whether this budget is in accordance with the law, it seems that this is already almost forbidden in the National Assembly. Then I'll answer with additional questions, and I want answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you. The Vice-President, perhaps it would be better for the Minister to answer the colleague's question first, particularly in the part relating to the European Commission's assessment. Those of us who were on Saturday on the Committee on Finance, we knew what the European Commission would say because it had already shown this in numbers. This means a structural deficit, our country's structural situation is deteriorating. These are numbers – 1.9; 2,1 and 2,3 is a structural deficit in 2015, 2016 and 2017. You take into account some figures, the European Commission others, okay, your legitimate right; but those who evaluate us will evaluate us on the basis of what we are reading today – the opinion of the European Commission. Seven countries are in this worst package, including Cyprus, along with Slovenia; and it would be really good to hear what the minister says. In fact, it can only be explained because the European Commission has said its position, and this is not good, putting Slovenia back among the most risky countries, that is a fact. We barely managed to dig out of the problems and came almost to the green branch, and we fell back two steps. This is the result of the work of the government of Mir Cerar, unfortunately. Believe me, I would be much more pleased if I could commend things; but it all shows that what I am warning is true. Economic activity is declining or economic growth is a quarter lower than it was in 2014. It's a fact, yes, you've turned trends, but down, unfortunately, we should all be worried. I have to protest again about the start of today's session. I am pleased that the President of the whole of Slovenia has said that such a budget has not yet been adopted in this country. For the first time in history, you are setting up a new parliamentary practice in the worst possible way. And this coalition with the largest party at the helm, which has been filled with the mouth of legal norms, principles – everything will be different, we will work for people, we will respect all laws, regulations, everything that exists – now overtake everything, make bad parliamentary practice even worse. Be aware that the value of the document we call the budget has been wasted. The next government, however, will be able to bring a document to the National Assembly and even say, there is 100 missing, there is 100 missing, there is 300 million missing, but, never mind, we will arrange it once. We've got 46 votes, we'll go roller-skating and we'll take it. That's what this government and this coalition with the modern party at the helm does. With a new policy. Everything will be different, everything will be better, all old bad practices will be stopped. But you've done worse. You've gathered such a path. I understand you have to bring her to an end today. It's really hard to see what you're doing with the budget. It was always the most important act of the government, always. And the government behaved accordingly, and the coalition behaved accordingly. Today, the government shows that I am not saying to the coalition that this is a completely worthless document. Now the coalition is running out of capacity. One more time. I am pleased that we have heard from the President's mouth that such a procedure has not yet been followed in the National Assembly when the budget is adopted. 200 or 300 million – we do not know exactly what the government is talking about – should be controversial if we consider doctors and the whole public sector, if we go to pay first. Yesterday, at 10: 10 a.m., we heard from Minister Koprivnik on the Committee on the Interior that only 23 million are still at stake. Now, you tell me who in this country does not want to coordinate and negotiate: unions that on the one hand have deviated from 170 million demands, or governments on the other hand that have given in for 10 million. That's it. We're here, we're right, we're enough, and we'll always do what we think we do. The same is true of fiscal rules, the same is true of municipalities, and so is salaries. Who doesn't? Who doesn't talk? Who? Apparently government negotiators. If so and for 23 million differences in the 9.5 billion budget work so dramatically in the country – this is irresponsible, indeed irresponsible. This year you will only find 50 million additional money for the European budget, because it has to be paid, with transfers. Now you are working for 23 million pieces of drama, as if it would be the end of Slovenia. Who can understand that?Oh, my God! The Minister can't allow this in his right mind, but he can't allow it. Not to mention the President of the Government who should have hit the table and ended it a month ago, if that's really the difference. Or maybe you're deceiving us all and we don't even know what we're talking about. As far as pensions are concerned. I must say that I was frisked yesterday when MPs of the modern centre said how the government provides more money for pensions. What comes together from contributions made by a respected colleague, the government doesn't have much. That's people's money. Look at the state budget, I can help you find these budget lines because the budget is a document, and if you don't find it, I can try. This government gives EUR 300 million less for pensions, that is a fact. What's gathered in the P.I.S., that's not government money. That's pension money, and you'll allow yourself to say, the government of Mira Cerar provides more money for pensioners. It's unacceptable that I don't put another word in your mouth than you do. It's misleading people. Yeah, it's more about pensions. Yes, it goes more, but from the budget you give less, 300 million less. That's why I'm trying to tell you that at the expense of pensions and investments, you're reducing the budget deficit. That's two facts and you can't deny it. And don't own people's money. It's not yours, it's not yours. There is a collection of money from all who go to work, and it is shared with those who have worked for 40 years and some who have paid a little less to get it. You say the Mira Cerar government has provided more money. Fat lie, fat lie. In the state budget, where it is necessary to ensure that all pensions are paid, you provide less, namely, EUR 300 million less. Much has been said about the reconciliation of pensions. Let me repeat, it may be a more appropriate opportunity in the law on the implementation of the budget, which is one of the following points; and there I expect Desus' support for the full harmonisation of pensions already in 2017. Do not bargain with 30, 40, 50 cents; not euro, cents; 50 cents for pensioners. Now the difference to full harmonisation is 38 cents, according to the Secretary of State, and the pensioners are not worth it, but we will talk about this at one of the following points. Investments, too. The fact is, you're reducing them, that's a fact. These are the figures coming from the budget. You can make excuses to European funds. Yes, a great deal of effort was made in 2013 and 2014 to be able to sign all the contracts and also in 2015 to absorb all European funds. A lot. But even the new financial perspective will be over by the end of the second year. But drawing on a new financial perspective is nothing. We are indeed an extremely successful country in pumping, and we do not yet have the conditions for pumping. You haven't even managed to reach the end of that financial mechanism in two years. It is money; it is only necessary to create the conditions that money can be drawn. I already said yesterday that there is one goal coming out of this budget, that is to hold the coalition until the end of the term of office, which can also be your legitimate objective. The largest party bears the largest part of the responsibility, and both are slightly smaller in proportion to this. It is not your fault that such things are being adopted in the National Assembly today. If I were to sit on the government side, I would be very concerned about the European Commission's opinion today. Mr Vice-President, if there is a written document, please ask the Government to distribute it to all Members and Members, especially because many times, when we talk about finance and state property, this government responds to the opinion of the European Commission and the OECD. An important, relevant opinion is quoted several times. And I really suggest, I don't have it, I only have five lines where we're listed among the worst countries. If there is at least a short version, I would be very happy if the government could provide it. Now I will end this first round with the words spoken here yesterday by the Member, not in the microphone, but in this Chamber; I will not appoint him. This is what he said: If we – this means that he was a coalition Member – if we continue to work in this way for another two years, we will destroy the country. I think that says it all.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The Mag has signed up for the word. Matthew Vranick Erman. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I will jump a little in my answers between the questions of individual Members and start with a wider economic picture or general assessment. We sent the draft budget to the European Commission for 2017. The European Commission, as you yourself have found, has announced today the publication of its evaluations. The fact is that the assessment we can expect is the one you mentioned, the assessment that there is a risk that the 2017 budget will not comply with European rules due to two circumstances. The first is that the European Commission does not take into account in its assessment the draft budget, as it was sent to the National Assembly, but takes into account the expenditure of the budget on the basis of the measures already in place. In view of the delay in negotiations with the unions, they have therefore taken into account in their assessment that all the restrictive measures that have been taken so far or are still in force in the field of public sector wages be released this year. Moreover, their assessment of the budget plan does not refer to the state budget as such, but rather to the budget of the State sector, whose component is also the state budget. This is why I am talking about this higher, 300 million number when we are talking about the expenditure of the state budget to cover labour costs. This assessment is a situation to which we must be careful and why I still stand behind the statement I made Friday at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy; if the union agreement on wage policy in 2017 does not require adequate, other unilateral measures, if you want. What will these measures be, and I do not want to speculate today, because, despite the stagnation in Monday's negotiations, there was an additional will on both sides last night to continue these talks. And believe me, I'm one of those people we really want this deal to come to. When I spoke yesterday about economic sovereignty, I also defined it. We got it back by getting out of the surplus. And I also stressed that it is our shared responsibility to consolidate our economic sovereignty also through prudent public financial policy. Wage expenditure is one of those areas where this prudence is particularly necessary. This is why the government has drawn up a state budget in these segments, taking into account public funding options and also desiring to phase out the restrictions still in force in this area. As is the gradual elimination of restrictions in the field of pension allowance expenditure and as is the gradual elimination of restrictive measures in the field of so-called social transfers. Let me go back to the assessment of the European Commission. I said that there are two circumstances that need to be clarified in this regard. That's what they counted for. And if we take into account the agreement, as reflected in the State budget proposal, there is a potential agreement with trade unions, then this would be an additional effort or a further reduction of the deficit by half a percentage of GDP, which would place us among countries that are generally in line with European rules. However, another circumstance that is essential in this regard is that the European Commission has prepared this assessment on the basis of its own assessment of the projected growth of GDP in the following year and on the basis of its assessment of the size of the production gap. And I have already explained on the committee that, according to the European Commission's calculations, the Slovenian economy is already overheating, so this production gap is assessed. And I believe that everyone in this room knows that's not the case. The European Commission is also aware of this, which is why it has also taken into account the so-called probability test in all the methodological elements of evaluation and in the follow-up to the draft budgetary plans. This is the one that gives us the basis that we are still defending our own calculation of the production gap and therefore the structural effort. In view of these circumstances, I remain responsible for the fact that the proposed budget for 2017 also brings about an appropriate and consistent structural effort in line with European rules. The written assessment of the draft budget plan is not yet known to us, we know that the European Commission will present these assessments publicly today and we also know what the assessment of Slovenia should be. However, we do not have the document, which is why we cannot grant the Member's request to submit such a document, at least not at the moment. The second general theme raised by several Members is the issue of the opinion of the Fiscal Council on the draft budgets for 2017 and 2018. I have already presented to the committee the position under which the article, which has been quoted today, lays down the Fiscal Rule Act as the competence of the fiscal council to deliver an opinion. However, no law, no provision of the Fiscal Rule Act or the Public Finance Act makes it impossible for the National Assembly to consider the draft budget if there is no opinion of the Fiscal Council. I can regret the fact that, since the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, we do not yet have a designated fiscal council. I can assure you that, as Minister, I am trying to find the right solutions, and I hope to be able to propose suitable candidates in a short time. Certainly, the procedures taken so far in this regard do not help to quickly obtain qualified candidates for this function. In relation to individual revenue. In the draft budget, these are the issues directly linked to the 2018 draft budget. The revenues from the sale of property are not foreseen or recorded in the draft budget, nor can I at this point forward them to you, as individual procedures are still in progress. We do not know at this time whether they will be completed already in 2017 or only in 2018; nor do we know or find it difficult to assess what is expected to be recovered from this title. In view of this, the precautionary principle in budgetary revenue planning requires that such revenue is not included in the draft budget. However, I would like to point out that this is the income of Balance B, which can only be used to reduce public debt or the debt of the budget. 10% of the purchases shall be made to a special budget fund at the expense of the future demographic fund. In this regard, I should also say that the NLB sales procedure and all other State-owned property sales procedures, state investments in companies are independently led by SDH and that this procedure is also carried out in accordance with the commitments made at the time of the State aid received. With regard to the issue of dividend income in 2018. The total amount of planned dividends in 2018 is EUR 112 million, of which EUR 91 million is spent on companies managed by SDH, while DUTB policy is different. With DUTB, we obtain regular annual revenues from the remuneration for the guarantees issued, while the remaining revenues to the state budget will be received when the DUB ceases to operate. With regard to the recruitment of both companies, I should say that the criteria for non-executive, executive directors, members of the Supervisory Board are laid down in the SDH Act or in the Act on Measures to Enhance Bank Stability. With regard to the impact of public expenditure on individual departments, I must say that it is impossible to trace the effects that the Member expects to have on the individual measure implemented by the Ministry, either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Health, to calculate the specific effects on the number of investments in the Republic of Slovenia, or on the reduction of waiting periods or waiting periods in hours. This is influenced by the whole of the various measures implemented not only for individual ministries but for all budgetary users, but not only for them; other measures can contribute to these solutions or results. In the field of the Ministry of Health's tasks, it is particularly important to note that in the national budget we show only expenditure on investments or general health matters that do not represent health services; while health services are financed from the health treasury, from the Department of Health Insurance. In the state budget, these expenditure, so rounded up, are not presented at 2.2 billion. All increases in expenditure provided by the Ministry of Health are provided primarily for the completion of healthcare investments, which also contributes to greater accessibility or, if you wish, better quality of the services provided in this area. The comparison of individual ministries with numbers alone is not correct because it is necessary to take into account that funds are being transferred between ministries due to organisational changes. This year, the Ministry of Public Administration took over from the Ministry of Education of the Directorate for Information Society and gradually takes over from the Ministry of Education to centralised management of IT systems in the state administration. As appropriate, the expenditure sides of individual budgetary users shall also be amended or recast in accordance with the arrangements. As regards the structural deficit, let me reiterate once again that the assessment presented by the European Commission stems only from the measures already in place and is based on the calculation of the production gap, which is extremely unfavourable for Slovenia, thus these comparisons may also be problematic. As far as pensions are concerned. Yes, expenditure from the State budget to the pension fund in the work relating to that extraordinary transfer, which should cover the pension allowance deficit, is decreasing. It is declining due to more favourable trends in the labour market, i.e. because of the increase in employment, as well as the increase in the average wage in Slovenia; however, this reduction in expenditure does not mean that we do not provide the pension allowance of all the funds needed for the normal payment of pensions. With regard to investments, I would like to reiterate that we cannot compare the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 with 2014 and 2015 when the old financial perspective was concluded. Let me repeat what I said yesterday. In 2017, we plan on domestic resources, which is financed from domestic revenues, for 128 million more investment expenditure, both expenditure and transfers, as realised in 2014. And in 2018, an additional 37 million, totalling 155 million in 2018 more than in 2014. However, as regards European investment expenditure, we must take into account the change in the structure of the new financial perspective compared to the old financial perspective. In the new financial perspective, more resources are allocated to so-called soft investments in science, research, employment, people, the skills of employees to carry out their tasks; and less to investments such as have been made in the past financial perspective. Nevertheless, planned investments from European funds in 2017 and 2018 also grow; of course, they do not reach the value of 2014 and 2015, which were exceptional years due to the heavy absorption of the old financial perspective. With regard to delays in drawing on the new financial perspective, let me reiterate once again that so far projects have been approved for €750 million, which is about a quarter of the funds we have at our disposal. Of these, EUR 500 million has already been signed. It is true, however, that the implementation of these projects has been initiated and the costs that could already be presented to the state budget for payment from European funds have not yet been realized to a greater extent, so far at 70 million. By the end of the year, we expect that these payments could be for 140 million. However, this launch and signing of contracts of EUR 500 million, at this time the signing of contracts to such an extent gives a guarantee or a reasonable expectation that expenditure on European funds will be reinforced and realised in accordance with the forecasts included in the draft budget in 2017 as well as in 2018. Let me return to the public sector's wages in the end. The State budget includes wage expenditure projections and other labour costs in that part of the public sector paid through the state budget, which is about 60% of the total public sector. We planned our expenses responsibly with the expectation that we would be able to negotiate with the unions. Unfortunately, the negotiations have stalled, but they are still ongoing; and I expect them to end. They can only be concluded because of the assessment of the European Commission we have received today, within the framework of the public funding options offered by the proposed draft budget. I am talking mainly about 2017, we are mixing the debate a little bit, but I hope that I will be allowed to do so. The negotiations can be concluded within the framework of the public funding options offered by this budget. And the law that was submitted was prepared on the same basis as expected to be agreed with the unions. This deal is still possible. But if it is not, then we need the replacement measures that the government can take to keep work-related expenditure at the planned level for the state budget and for all other cash. In any event, I assess that the budget is actually set in line with the public financial options; I am aware of the government's responsibilities if there is no agreement with the unions by the end of this year to ensure that the budget is implemented in accordance with the frameworks that I hope you will also confirm today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Replica, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you so much for the replica. I think the Minister misunderstood me, misinterpreted me on the question of what the government's criteria for determining candidates for the supervisory councils are. I know there are conditions in the law for someone to sign up. But I'm not interested in the conditions that are in the SDH and DUTB laws; I'm interested in the conditions that are in the DUTB laws; but on the basis of the receipt of applications, on which the government then selects SDH supervisors and non-executed directors; the executives are not determined by the government, you know, Madam Minister. But within three minutes, we really don't know what we're dealing with. You say, in the end, you said about salaries in the public sector: negotiations still exist, and I hope that because of the European Commission and the report and so on there will be salaries within the budget and so on. I quote you, "for the report of the European Commission". On the other hand, you say that the European Commission has its own GDP assessment, that it does not take into account the production gap, that it is indeed a difference in the structural deficit and so on; as we have already discussed with Minister Marble. But you haven't agreed here yet. And now I am interested in what documents Slovenia has sent and sent to the European Commission to prepare such an assessment. Are the European Commission's representatives in Slovenia looking for documents here?Oh, my God! On the basis of what documents, what were the interviews if they were; and were any interviews by the Ministry of Finance, Government or other ministries regarding the making of such assessments? Since Minister Marble, your predecessor, has already said that with regard to the structural deficit and the various methods, it is clear that this is all clear. And now we have a duality, you do not acknowledge the European Commission's report, as I understand, because of these two matters; on the other hand, you will use this in negotiations with the unions, if you see, the European Commission says that this is the way you must do it. Now I no longer know where we are and whether you have a report from the European Commission that is relevant. It is true, Madam Minister, that you have indeed responded to the fact that the budget is not in line with the Fiscal Rules Act on the Committee. But I already warned you there that this is not an excuse for you to say: 'also the Public Finance Act and the Fiscal Rule Act do not prevent the National Assembly from considering the budget'. That's right. What law, though, forbids anything to the National Assembly to deal with? I'm sorry for a few seconds over the length of the replica, but this excuse of yours, if you repeat it so much, it's already a little cynical. The National Assembly is independent and sovereign.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u41	Minister, when I was talking about pensions, you obviously didn't get it right. I have never said that pensions have been reduced; however, it is the fact that the State gives the state budget, that the Government of Mir Cerar provides for pensions 300 million euros less; and that it can therefore reduce the deficit. And you confirmed that to me. I understood that this was an answer to the MEPs from the Modern Centre Party who said yesterday that the Peace Cerar government would give more. Of course it doesn't. There is less €300 million in the budget for pensions and you have therefore reduced the budget deficit very simply for this amount. Health care. If I understand correctly, Minister, better quality of services should be provided in health care. 30% are longer waiting species, and we are talking about higher quality health services. And who are you laughing at?Oh, my God! Are you kidding me?Oh, my God! If I understood correctly, if I misunderstood, I apologize, but I'm trying to listen carefully. Now, as far as the European Commission is concerned. However, it might be right to interrupt this meeting at this point and wait for the opinion of the European Commission, many times the opinion of the European Commission is very important, as the members of the coalition tell us. Today, when it's bad for the government and the coalition, it's some worthless paper. You can find arguments, I am aware, but you all must be aware that the houses, those who will lend you money, will not judge on the basis of the opinion of the Government of Mir Cerar, but on the basis of international documents. And the opinion of the European Commission is one of these. Now, say we're just walking away and what should we do now and by the way, you're not just breaking up for half a percent of the deficit. [[…]] There is a 1.5% difference between yours and their structural deficit; 500 million euros is this. And that's why we're trying to tell you that the document you're talking about today is worthless. You will accept it, because it is not a problem, you will accept it for the first time in January, then you will fix it for the second time in June, or you will simply stop implementing the budget in February, as you did in August this year. There are ways, because I agree, only this is far from the good, new political practices that you have promised people. That's a fact. The President, perhaps even a question to the Minister, if possible, when this opinion of the European Commission will be available. Indeed, because we no longer have the opinion of the fiscal world, we will have at least the opinion of the European Commission; then let us continue to talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u43	Mr President, thank you for your floor. I've got a replica in this context because the secretary didn't give any answers. I will repeat it again, and I think there are really more than valid reasons for us to stop this meeting at this time. Statement by Minister Koprivnik on Friday: The government will provide additional explanations to Members and Members when adopting the budget on how you plan on budget stability. You haven't said a word. You said you couldn't tell the action today. Tell me what you're doing. Now it is a fact that the law is inappropriate for further consideration and you are an eternal optimist, a respected minister. Optimism isn't enough. Dear Minister, I apologize for the expression, but you live in a world of your own. You cannot say that you planned the revenue and expenditure of this budget responsibly. On the other hand, you are aware that you have not agreed on one of the main items, or the main item on budget expenditure, with the unions regarding salaries. And you say five minutes ago that you planned the expenditure responsibly. How do you plan your expenses responsibly if you have not reconciled or negotiated? That you did not negotiate is your responsibility, the responsibility of the government and the responsibility of this coalition – the parties of the modern centre, the Social Democrats and Desus. Minister Koprivnikar, Vice-President of the Government, said you would present the measures for the stability of this budget to Members and Members. Look, we've got six hours. The government has 35 minutes left. Tell me what measures will now be followed. No, you said again, I'm not going to go into action. And you have already been an eternal optimist on Friday on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy – as we will agree by Tuesday. You didn't. Now you've said again – I'm optimistic, we'll make a deal. What's your deal? Tell me what you'll agree to. And where's Plan A, Plan B, Plan C? Will you then propose an intervention law or not? Are you going to go to a linear wage reduction or something? Will you raise the value added tax? Manevrov is huge enough to fill this gap, which exists because of a non-conspiracy with unions. Tell us if we will go citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with 1. 1. 2017 – Due to the inability of this government to agree with the unions – to increase taxes or to cut wages? You only have two choices. Tell me, which taxes will you increase and which wages will you reduce and whether you will reduce your pension?Oh, my God! Tell me, we're expecting an answer, or we can end this meeting. For a conscious agreement is that you will present measures for the stability of this budget. But you said yourself on the board that this one was incoherent in case there was no agreement. And the deal didn't come to order. The law was revoked. No budget, no government. I am convinced that this document, which we have on the table today, is the swan song of the government of Mir Cerar and the coalition – the parties of the modern centre, the Social Democrats and Desus. The Swan Singing.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Please sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, everyone else, nice greeting! I'll start with the Minister's speech first. It concluded that the budget was actually set. Then we have yesterday's event. You didn't get along, and yesterday we've been listening all day, and our amendments aren't real, even though they're harmonised. Every place you take, you give it as much as you give it to me. But this law is not harmonised. But the secretary says the budget is set for real. And then on the question of what is today's decision on the part of the European Commission, he says, "Europe does not understand us, we are trying, but they did not take the right data into account and so on, blah blah blah blah. Finally, this ugly Europe does not understand us and does not know what we are doing in good faith, that our actions, for which we have no idea what they will be, are being regulated. Regarding the fiscal council, the minister said she regretted and tried. For more than two years, we have been listening to the President of the Government and most ministers. When something bad is done, they regret it and strive. Only in words, but in actions, a complete zero; not to speak of those negative measures that you bring or bring before the Members of the National Assembly. And once again, now the minister has decided again that SDH and the bad bank are ugly crabs and that the government has nothing. But when you need something, you refer to these two same institutions. In short, just like it suits you. And then the minister says we can't compare. You can't compare anything; but when it suits you, you throw everything into one basket – apples, pears, left, right, whatever. But if we ask you a specific question, the answer is we can't compare. And then the finance minister, not some political or fiscal analyst, says – we expect. Tell me exactly what measures you are taking; not what you expect. And that's what the finance minister says, that's a bluff, that's the fiction we're expecting. I expect that next year all pensioners will have at least a thousand euros to pay, all in the public sector 2,000 euros to pay, all in the economy 3,000 euros. But it's a bluff, it's a fiction. But here we have the words of the Minister of Finance, who says how we expect and hope that the revenues will increase. Well, congratulations, dear Minister, but you're the Minister of Finance, not the financial advisor to the President of the Government or this government. The Minister of Finance, instead of specific answers, is her answer – we hope and expect. There are not as many fairy tales in fairy tales as you are here today to share with us with that thought – let these opposition Members bite, we will accept ours. And despite the fact that you will adopt the first budget, which will be uncoordinated on the revenue/expenditure side, to be inconsistent with almost all the social partners, so that you will not accept any amendment of the opposition, you say, quote, 'the budget is set for real'. Fiction, Your Honor. And I'm gonna start with what I did a little while ago. The fact is, while we are talking about the budget, the President of the Government is already returning to his teaching lines. In the morning he was at law school, now teaching young people how young people are currently a priority; because yesterday was another priority, there is likely to be a UKC in the afternoon, a health priority again, and in the evening there is likely to be another priority. In the meantime, he writes on Twitter: The government is improving the business environment. With what? With tax receipts, with higher taxes, with more red tape? The business environment is such that young people flee regardless of their higher or lower education abroad. The government is improving the business environment, wrote the president of the government. Instead of sitting here answering questions, it goes back slowly and slowly into its teaching waters; but it can easily write down a pianist bluff — the government is improving the business environment. And if we asked him how it improves, then again it would be a guarantee in terms of – we cannot compare, we hope, we expect. At least read the coalition contract, what you promised. And you're improving the business environment, and at the same stage, you have fronts open everywhere. Traders, economists, have stepped out of the Economic and Social Council. The public sector, which, in particular the largest ruling party, helped you to choose, gave you an account yesterday for this victory; you can't fulfill it, and here your mathematics falls. But we're still "waiting and hoping". In short, every minute there is less healthy atmosphere in the National Assembly, but apparently some go elsewhere to fill with this healthy atmosphere. Yesterday I said it was a disaster to even talk about the budget rebalancing for 2017, and an even bigger fiction and bluff is the 2018 budget. Why? I will repeat once again two key facts on the basis of which I do not think we should discuss this budget at all; in addition to what happened yesterday on the Committee on Internal Affairs. First is the Court of Auditors. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors said that we have such unregulated state finances that they cannot give an opinion. You imagine a debate about the family budget of a man, wife and children when children dream about new games, about trips, about what they will have all, the wife has her dreams again, the husband has her dreams; but they have no idea, nor do they have any idea how much income the wife has, how much income the husband has and what kind of expenditure they should be. You left this confusion in 2015. And I only hope that once today it will be said that the government of John Janša from the past is to blame that you have a complete confusion in 2015; such confusion that the Court of Auditors cannot do anything. And the second effect, in the Constitution, we have a fiscal rule, we have an implementing act. If you type in the Fiscal Rule Act the word "fiscal", you find 63 results, what should be arranged, in each article. Let's leave it, the composition of the fiscal world. "The Fiscal Board of the evaluation referred to in the preceding paragraph shall prepare and transmit to the Government and the National Assembly, following the submission of a proposal for a state budget." Where is it? There's no evaluation because you're not capable of establishing a fiscal world. And you are vehemently saying today that the 2018 budget is set for real. The Court of Auditors has no idea what is even in the 2015 budget, the Fiscal Council and its documents. And the third fiction I'm most afraid of for 2018 is two moments. In fact, there will be local elections in 2018, de facto. Fortunately, the largest coalition party now has no mayor to raise their appetites enormously in the election year; but probably there will be some of their councillors propose stadiums, cultural halls, and I don't know what kind of investment, they will knock on the door of their own ministers – the minister, please, we will have a mayor candidate, come on, we can't come with an empty wallet and promise people bluffs that we've been going for two or three years. They will have to promise and refer to a minister who has promised them something about how after 2018 the minister will give something; but these ministers will not be anywhere else after 2018. I am sure of 80% of these ministers, but it is not a personal insult, but it will be a political fact. And we will have, at least in your opinion, a state-run election. Just look at yourself, Members of the coalition, when ministers come to the National Assembly as flocks of birds – Minister, please, Minister, please. And this will escalate in 2018 when you have a huge desire. But the ministers don't know what they're going to promise you, you're going to promise something else, but you're still saying the budget is real. In addition, I list the losers again, as I mentioned yesterday, in 2017 and even more in 2018, so in the election year, these appetites will obviously pay for the trade and economy. Because it is obviously the fam of this coalition that the money for pensioners will grow in some miraculous tree, that the money for the public sector and the unemployed will also grow in some miraculous tree, and craftsmen and economists will hold their head and only hope that you will not accept any nonsense, such as higher taxes in the field of the economy, general higher taxes or higher penalties and fines. And let's leave that mantra aside so that we obviously don't listen and understand each other in this national assembly, while some say that there will be fewer taxpayers in Slovenia, because in Austria, Germany, Australia, wherever you want, there will be less of these revenues that are real in the state budget, you will have less to share the pre-election candy. Umar said yesterday that investment and investment are a key issue. And if we look at it, in 2018 there is a repeat of a similar story as in 2017. I'm sure with 1. 1. 2018 or in a year or a little less, when you probably accept the third, fourth balance of the 2018 budget, we will not actually – let us leave behind the analysis made by the experts to justify their services – nothing closer to the third development axis – nothing closer to the second track. There, however, will fall from some advisory society some analysis of what still needs to be studied so that things will at least be paid to those who are thinking in this government or their services. On the other hand, I repeat, the biggest investment currently in Slovenia is the completion of the construction of hydro power plants on the lower Sava. For the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant, which should be built by the end of 2017, you have no idea or euro, which is the saddest, for this hydroelectric plant. Not even the euro. And here we are listening to the Minister of the Environment's replies that there is no environmental consensus, which means that the Minister responsible for this project is nagging Posav and that there is no environmental consensus for which she is responsible, simply because there will be no need to provide in the State budget for the funds that the Government has committed to the decision. The Minister herself said that we had yet to reach an unfulfilled conclusion; but when I asked her when this decision would be realized, the organ was silent on the other hand. In short, this is your investment, the pear, the investment on paper; and when the projects where the shovel is waiting, you burden them, that's your investment. And why do I think nothing will happen on this side of investment? Because, as it is said, tomorrow there will probably be some new priorities in this government. When there is an extraordinary matter in Slovenia – a new priority and a new pianist day of the Prime Minister. I'm afraid that after my implementation there will be a new priority for the Prime Minister, they were young before, and then someone else will be. There are some other things that I have considered in greater detail about health care. I am even afraid to talk about health because my immune system is falling when I listen or when I read finances and budget for 2018. The other thing is agriculture, where the announced measures will not supplement the budget in this area, but will strike a severe blow to Slovenian agriculture because this policy will only continue, which is already being implemented by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Agriculture. Tax fines, high penalties, bureaucracy and nationalisation. In all the laws we have adopted in the agricultural field, there has been a step further towards nationalisation. Law on the company Slovenian National Forests, party company Social Democrats. Fund for agricultural land, nationalisation. The Forest Act, nationalization. I'm moving on here, which I've already started, selling state property. This is where they're going in the same direction. Instead of selling or selling off, i.e. to fill the state budget, the statements in the draft budget show that you are going to nationalisation, because the state is supposed to provide 200 or 300 million for recapitalisation, but we do not know which companies. What's going to happen to NLB, to Telekom, to what insurance company, we don't know anything. The government will probably talk about how it tries to sell; but we have these ugly foreigners who do everything wrong with Slovenian property, of course, in the words of the government representatives, and in the draft budget we have 200 million to further nationalise this state not silver, but brass cans. And in view of yesterday's debate on the Committee on the Interior, I am interested, Madam Minister of Finance, it is not here that we are proposing laws from today's Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, for the first time, do not have precisely regulated financial relations or say that we give to the state budget account certain areas where we have decided to introduce the law, 1 million, 5 million, 10 million, you will have the courage to say that this law is not in line with the state budget. Because you yourself have the biggest hole in the state budget and not just because of yesterday's event, when you're missing 23 million according to your data, but I'm also saying it's a little bit about, like, a million dollars up, a million dollars down. Because it would be difficult for us to actually know what the state of the state budget is, once again, if the Court of Auditors, who wants to review this budget, does not know what kind of confusion you are having. But today, apparently, the coalition decided that one SD representative, one Desusa, maybe two of the SMC, would probably speak in the sense that the government is improving the business environment and we hope, we expect, we are supreme, we are on to; all the others are ugly and you do not understand us and you should not suggest anything and in this sense. And you will, not from what I am in Parliament, but since 1991 the most hit not only by the opposition, for which you are still hanging, we have known this for the first day after the elections, but you will overrun all the so-called social partners, everything. To the conclusion. Before you decide on today's budget, read what you wrote down as a footnote in your coalition contract. By adopting this budget, for the first time, we are a step closer to early elections, which is more your problem than ours; for the second time, you will bury the bargaining with everyone who is supposed to be as interested associations, the ones the government must talk to. And thirdly, throw the coalition contract into the furnace, because the coalition contract is just another bluff written on paper. I'll finish with the football jargon. The fact is that they meet the words of a sports commentator who said at the time of defeat: They cannot win because there is no knowledge and no technique. Obviously because you have other priorities every day, you don't know what else to do; but you know less how and with what financial effects you will actually do what is called the 2018 budget. In the meantime, we will go even lower on this scale, where we have fallen today, when we are in the last place with Italy and Cyprus, when we get not a red card, but probably another blue one from the European Commission, which doesn't even know what's going on and how it's happening in the state budget. But, Your Honor, good luck to you! But I tell citizens and citizens, you have chosen an unhappy government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I think it is right to say, firstly, that, like a bulwark coalition, and like the bulwark Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this mandate, the state budget for 2017 and 2018 is also hollow. It would be a good thing that every single one of you in the bedroom is on a note like I just said, and that sentence says, "Whoever you are in the coalition puts it above the bed." And when he wakes up in the morning, he'll look at it and start thinking. I think the moment has come when it is right in this national assembly that people sitting in here are also thinking and working in the interests of their people. This government, this coalition not only is not capable, it obviously does not want to, because its priority is everything but what needs to be given to the Slovenian people and the people. This government and this coalition are at the forefront of helping those who are criminals, who also have a criminal past, and holding a stand. I just want to remind you of the Mafia group in the banks that created a financial hole in this society in one way or another; that we are not talking about other things then, not to mention those who steal cubicles in the health system. If you listened to Mr Kuštrin yesterday or the day before yesterday when he said how much one matter costs and how much commission is. And if this coalition and this government do not respond to this matter at all, and as I am following this matter in this political Slovenian space, that is exactly how it is. For this reason, I say that this coalition and this government are truly what the Slovenian people should not afford. You've done enormous damage in these two-and-a-half years, truly enormous damage. A pity that's irreparable. I don't know how many generations it's going to take to cure what's happened in these two and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, let me return to the 2018 budget. I printed today with Siol.net, Wednesday, 16. 11. 2016, writes: Slovenia will receive an earring from Brussels. The Slovenian draft budget for the next two years, prepared by the Government of Mir Cerar, is not in line with European budgetary rules, will be announced today from Brussels. This is how the website I mentioned earlier predicts the policy of the European Union. And on the other hand, Slovenia is already among the worst in March. The Commission is expected to classify the Member's budgets in three groups this year: in line with European rules, largely in line with the rules and the risks of non-compliance with the rules. In the previous evaluation cycle, Slovenia was unexpectedly classified from the medium group in the common countries in March because there is a risk of non-compliance with European rules. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if anyone in the coalition has read what I am now, I should suggest that the meeting of this assembly be suspended. That's alarming information. And if that's not alarming information for you, then I wonder if we live in a parallel world. Can you explain what's written here? Can you explain it?Oh, my God! And if you know, I expect you to stop this session within the next half hour at the latest. And further determine the reasons for such a situation, prepare solutions for such a situation, and then continue this debate in the National Assembly. This would be normal for any normal Parliament, for every normal group of Members; but obviously everything is possible in our Parliament, especially because it is composed of those who have come to this Parliament without any programme that they do not really know, absolutely do not know how to be treated and how to rule the people in order to be satisfied. And apparently also budget 2017 and 2018 is proof that you are campaigning, that you have no clear goals, your coalition contract are written phrases. And I think that since this coalition agreement has virtually not been implemented more than 10 or 15 %, we are in the second half or in the second third of your mandate, and the situation is as it is. And the budget is what it is. According to my personal assessment, the budget is absolutely out of line. Absolutely uncoordinated, and that's a fact. We have no opinion of the fiscal council, a law on the wage system in the public sector was removed yesterday; we do not know what will happen as a result when we talk about the doctor's statement. And in the end, it can happen to us that there will be a hole in the budget, which will be a few hundred million. How do you imagine in this state then to continue your work as a government and coalition, how? Already we need almost 3% of the positive gross social product to cover only interest on what we owe. And where is the development budget then? We don't have enough economic growth to cover interest. On what basis can we then invest in development and what is essential and necessary? Without development, without investing in the economy, we have no chance, no chance, you all know, from there money comes into the budget. And in these two budgets, I have no feeling that it is development-oriented and not development-oriented. They're not going in the right direction. You do not have the right priorities, you are still working on the same principle as all left-wing governments in the independent Republic of Slovenia, and this is that much more is spent than it has produced. And those who produce, those who work and create, have to be beaten on the back and imposed new and new obligations on them and so on. And not to talk about unemployment. If not so many people were working abroad, do you know what unemployment would be like here today? 130, 140 thousand. And then we deceive people, Slovenian people, those people who break through with a great deal of trouble every month and survive with a great problem. Last night I was visiting a lady who has 288 euros in pension; and yesterday was 14 or 15 in the month, she has no more cents. She said, Mr. Marian Pojbich, I don't know what to do. And I have so much compassion for people that I just helped her, but it's not a solution, it's not a long-term systemic solution. Poverty and all that we avoid through and say poverty is declining and so on; because we do not go among people because we think Slovenia is Ljubljana, and because we imagine that the whole of Slovenia lives on the same level as Ljubljana. Please. Also colleagues from Styria, from Maribor, you are a whole bunch of Members. Am I the only one who goes from person to person?Oh, my God! How is that possible? And how can you then come up with such a budget and not take into account the priorities that are crucial in this budget so that Slovenians can live as normal as possible; not just individuals and a narrow group. And privileged as little gods. And certain people in the public and state sectors as great gods. I have never claimed that we do not need it, the public and state sectors, ever; but not in such a way, not so bulky, not so inefficient. Many people, even in administrative units, I know a person I specifically commended here a year ago or two in the National Assembly, who did an excellent job. But what a great number are those who hide behind these good people. And this government to this point and this coalition to this point in this area has done nothing, nothing, nothing. Not only is it increasing the expenditure for these structures of the people of the state budget; in a given situation where economic growth is not enough to pay interest on the debt that has been made mainly by the leftist governments in our society. Not to mention the subsistence of the Slovenian Army, I am talking about subsystems, not to mention the malnutrition of the health system, which is still important for every individual in Slovenian society, every person in Slovenian society. And these are the priorities, these should be the priorities of this government. And what was done in this area within two and a half years of the ruling of this coalition and this government? What? Practically nothing. From these two budgets there are few things, but there is no way to solve the waiting types and so on not to talk about the huge problem in our society. It is not possible to save those far most who have 200, 300, 400, 500 euros in pension. And he can't save and not save those who are long-term in the employment office, in the way I expect it to be. A lot of money goes into the social subsystem. It goes; but the problem is how this money is spent, how social work centres work, how much abuse happens. Every day we look again and again, new and new pigs come to the surface, which are on the side of the pigs. This is only because a particular party can control the whole subsystem. And this time, it is the Social Democrats who are most responsible for what is happening in the subsystem when we are talking about socialism. Last time I read one piece of data, there are 130 employees of 123 members of the Social Democrats in one of the social work centres. And if that's not alarming information, then I'll be damned. Do you find that normal, those who sit on the side of the government and those who sit in coalition parties and the members of Desus who are in this government who have the right to strike at the table? Nothing. Nothing happens just because you keep your positions, that you have full wallets, that your mandate goes well, that runs as long as possible. This is your story and everything else, which is crucial, is a second-rate question. And the second-class question is those who cannot live, those who are on the verge of survival, as I said, most in this group are also pensioners. What do you think the pensioners are saying to me and what they told me last night when I was with this lady I was talking about earlier, what she told me? You will hear this, but not today; when the opportunity is right, I will tell you because it will write and sign a document. And it is right that for one time in this national assembly we face the reality, the truth, and that we start to think righteously for once. No structure that has robbed this country has destroyed this country, nothing has happened until now, zero. Zero. Now there's some talk, some small investigations, about Romana Pajenek and Probranka. Where's the Ljubljana Bank? Where's Abanka? Where's Factor Bank? Where these are not lumpariums, these are not lumpariums, they are scandalous mafia interventions in the very core of the functioning of our country and our statehood, because they undermine the foundations of this statehood, these countries, because they are stealing the money that the poor nation has come here, and they are moving it around all over the world. And then they buy Slovenian companies back with that money through quasi-funds; and you all know it's true, and nothing of all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we remind you of this, we are trying to remind you all through you that you are aware of what your primary task is in this society, because you are a government and a coalition; but nothing. Everything stands, everything is blurry, all these great thieves can't know what they're doing, exactly how much money individuals have stolen; you have every day on Facebook or you look at social networks, whole teams of individuals with pictures and written names and surnames; but nothing happens. Everything is thrown — I don't know which segment — into drawers. Whether it's the D.A. or it's the police, I don't know, somewhere these things stop. The one with the scissors and the canvas in his hands. Who's that? This is government and coalition. And there is no way that, as a Member of Parliament, Mariana Pojbič, who is four mandates in this House, would convince me that you have no possibility of having no leverage. I listen all the time. We have to do this because the marriage is like this. We can't do this because the marriage is like this. But this coalition has a two-thirds majority, it can change every law right now, in twenty-four hours. We have five or ten laws that need to be passed, if it's about these rascals, this mob that stole state finances, we bring it to a judge and then jail and take away all the property that they stole. That would be the right way. I suggest you, dear coalition and government, let's not deal with the details. With what I'm talking about right now, let's do business, and we'll have three, four, five billion in the budget right away. Right now, right now. And we'll be able to share a lot of money with those who deserve it, who've worked bloody hard for it, or worked for 40 years, or I don't know how long and they're retired today. They deserve it and they don't get it. Let's do it, see how many of you there are. There will be no problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We, if necessary, will be sitting in Parliament for 24 hours or 48 hours, from morning to evening, and you will see if any of our Members are missing. Never, I guarantee you no one. Bring the relevant documents, we accept them, and we solve this problem, no one will be able to object, no bank with some kind of bank secrecy, no other secret, no third with that, then hides us certain documents even the police. What kind of country we live in, please. That's amazing. The European Union says that chandeliers must be carried out in Slovenia. Yeah, read a little, sir, the one that probably hurts the most, read a little bit about what it says, because you have social networks every day, I read them; I don't know if you're watching. In Slovenia, it is imperative to take out the lustration because there are too many connections and a circle, because the same people are spinning, their nephews, so I won't tell the children. Look at your names and surnames, and you'll see who's spinning in individual positions. I also personally reminded the Prime Minister of one person, and I wrote to him that he should be careful at the beginning of this term, at the very beginning. Even though I didn't believe his words in the election campaign he said about morality and I don't know what else. Nothing happened, that man is still sitting there creating almost everything, he's got almost everything under control when we're talking about the state economy. This is what is problematic; and no one dares to touch it, no one will find a system to remove these people. Sad, truly sad. And then we go around in a vicious circle, and if politics doesn't come together here, we will never improve the situation in this country. Our tax is increasing, and we're thinking that we're going to cut down on that money we're spending more than we're making. It's a drawback. I'm sorry, I couldn't remember. We're talking to each other. Because after everything you see in this budget, it's not going to be 700 million at the end, but it's going to be another billion 200 or a billion 100 deficits. Once again, we will spend so much and so much more than we have produced. And not paint us, but we are not all as clean as you try to have us; that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one who just gnaws. The Slovenian Democratic Party is the one that has brought the most legislative proposals to this Parliament, and the good ones. But because of a bad coalition, because of a bad government, they're rejected. And that's on account of the poorest. That's what's wrong. It is from these two budgets that this story is seen for those of us who are familiar with certain things. And here to talk to the Floscules, stupidity that the budget is made up realistically; who in this House can express such nonsense in a given situation. And he could be a minister. In a government that is hollow, in a coalition that is completely hollow, the budget, which is completely hollow, also logically sits the holesy ministers, who bring and declare such nonsense. These are the perfect crap they can't handle. We all know, as I said before, that the budget is inconsistent; and that is a fact. Dear colleagues, look at the health system, see what's going on at this point. It should immediately be an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in such a situation, not to talk in a way that does not touch us. Tomorrow people will start to die; who will answer for it, who, I ask you. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party do not, because we constantly warn you, dear friends or whatever I say, do something to prevent what should not happen in this society. And set our priorities. The health system, waiting types and all these stories are top priority. They should be visible from this budget, but they are not. Not from this or from the previous, so from 2017, they are not. Waiting species, disaster, catastrophic state. Those who work in health care, because I can see that there is a doctor sitting among us who knows this very well, knows that this is a fact, he also knows that the health budget is undernourished, and he knows it. It also knows what kind of situation can happen to us now that the medical statement, when this policy has not been able to listen to what doctors have always warned us that this moment will come if this government, this coalition and this policy do not go away. And it didn't crash, nothing happened, zero. That's why we have what we have today. And who will be responsible for the people? You looked yesterday when they showed what was going on at the Maribor Clinic Center. Twenty hours of people are waiting there for a checkup. What we're normal about, and we're talking in here like everything in this country is oh and ah and everything's great. What are we normal about?Oh, my God! Well, who can say we're normal? I feel like I'm not normal to look at this with a story like that. And if I had a chance to be in the government right now, I'd act right now. Even at midnight, at one o'clock at night, I'd like to convene a coalition meeting. I'd call a coalition meeting right away, the government, there's no discussion that we'll be waiting from today to tomorrow to get some sleep. No, because we are responsible for the situation that has taken place in this society, and we have brought this society into this situation. I'd like to call right away. What are you doing? You're dealing with everything else, just not with what's crucial and problematic. Please, I beg you, truly, once, please listen to my words and do not look at me through some political option. Listen to my words! My word wants to be intertwined; and so do they. I want to solve the problems of the poorest part of our people and solve the problems of those in the health system, solve the problems of those in the defence, military and so on. Listen to me here! Behind me – I must say this because I am proud – stands the Slovenian Democratic Party. And we are dignified, and we know what we want. I also call on the entire Slovenian people not to fall for new faces and some combination of backgrounds that are being prepared again in one way or another. That it will not fall because, in the next term, if this leftist government, whatever it is already designed, receives a mandate, it may happen that these pensioners, public servants, all of whom we are talking about today, will not receive any more pensions and will not receive any more wages than we are now receiving. I'm really warning you, this situation could happen. Not to talk about health care, not to talk. Today is a health problem; if you don't have money, you're practically there tomorrow, you know, I don't like to talk about where. And that's unacceptable, extremely irresponsible. And we're talking about public health. Floscul – Public Health! What kind of public health care, if 30% of people have to pay a check if they want a normal checkup at the right time to get checked out before they die. This is public health for you?Oh, my God! It's a flossule that can't hold up anywhere! I'm asking you nicely, but by God, let's start acting once. And let's not just look for who's where, but let's get together on key issues and try to solve them. And all the time, at every session of the National Assembly, I invite you to make a session, for 48 hours, in Parliament, to bring us sandwiches and water, and 48 hours, all Members, all Members, regardless of political affiliation, sit here and take the key solutions that are necessary for the Slovenian people to live better. Not us; the people, most of the people. That those who now go to Austria who go around looking for bread may also work in their own country. And we're not going to boast that it's unemployment, and in fact, it's completely different. If it weren't for that, we'd have a minimum of 130, 140 thousand unemployed. Not to mention agency workers based here but working in Austria, Germany and so on. If we were to sum it up, we would see what the number is — 50, 60 thousand people. And then the government wouldn't be bragging and bragging about what they've done to make unemployment go down. Come take a look at Styrian, come on! Come to Koroška, come to Prlekia, come to Pomurje, Prekmurje and so on. Come on, the whole government and let's go down. And we'll call people and you'll see what people will tell you. Then you will have a real picture of real problems in Slovenian society. And only then will some professors, doctors, and I do not know what else you are sitting in Parliament, which is concentrated in Ljubljana, understand the essence of the problem. And if you understand the essence of the problem, you will be able to begin to solve it. But if you don't, unfortunately, the one who doesn't know the problem is practically very hard or he can't solve it. Therefore, it is important that once we feel the moment, but not only listen, we also hear what the Slovenian people are telling us, what those who wait 19 hours in the E.R. tell us. What do those who wait two or three years to come for a first checkup tell us? And what are those who have 250 or 280 euros in pensions and those with 400 or 600 euros telling us? What are these people telling us?Oh, my God! And when we're able to do that, trust me, it'll all be much easier and we won't share. And we will not listen to that media structure that is trying to put the whole Parliament in the light in every way – because you are all the same, because you are all the same bastards. That's not true! I say again, neither I nor the Slovenian Democratic Party belong to this team. And right, the Slovenian people need to be convinced that this is not the case, what the regime media has shown to create an apathy of electoral participation. And this is happening to us, in Ljubljana 75% of those who participate in elections; in the periphery, if we go up, Styria, Koroška, Prlecija, Pomurje and so on, 49%. It is those who are doing the worst in this society that do not go to elections because of this media association that does what it does; that it divides us again and again. In some parts, it connects that those who go, and this is the government and public administration that always goes to the elections, stay. But those who don't have time because they fight from month to month to survive are going to elections. And at the next election of God I pray and hope that the Slovenian people will wake up one day and hear my words here in Parliament and will hear the words of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we are talking about the people we are dealing with for the Slovenian future. And it's not about the privileged and the mafia that is being protected by the current coalition and the current government. The budget, as I said before, is, in my opinion, inconsistent, that's a fact. Such a budget cannot be supported in the Slovenian Parliament, nor should we in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I do not think that many others should do so. And we should immediately, as I said before, I have spoken for almost 10 or 15 minutes now, give procedurally and say: please, Madam Vice-President, let's stop the meeting of the National Assembly until we have all the grounds to discuss the budget in the National Assembly and also accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mr. Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have a procedure. And after you, the magus. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u49	Mr President, I am sure that there are two moments when there is a need for a procedural response. We cannot listen here to Members of Parliament and Members, Siol.net writes this, Finance writes what another portal writes about the report and the position towards the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia by the European Commission. I am sure that this national assembly needs greater seriousness by the government. At the very least, it is for the Minister of Finance or the Council of Ministers, the Government or the President of the Government to define the position put forward by the European Commission towards the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia; and to do so without delay before this debate continues. And in the second step, the distinguished minister – formerly the chief negotiator here, that means you are not negotiating because he was still here 10 minutes ago, sitting there for an hour – say the measures on which you will ensure the stability of this budget, what the Vice-President of the Government has already said. Mr President, I propose that you be able to act in accordance with the rules of procedure and with your options. And before this debate continues, Members and Members will receive this report from the European Commission and the Government will be defined in a second step.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We have two other debaters and then the Minister has announced herself. Mag. A cookbook, if you agree, would wait for her response before we proceed with the debate. Mag. Spreadel, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I do not want the President to give me another warning about this, but I have a similar proposal. But it's not that the government does it, because it looks like the government can't get to this report. That is why I appeal to you and to the National Assembly to obtain a report from the European Commission and to distribute it to the Members. I don't know if the government is going to do this. I don't know if she's qualified to have this information or not. According to the budget we've received, I doubt it has. And since the government did not come with this, although it was later found that it already knew that the report would be today and so on, it did not come with this information; we came with Members that today the European Commission issued a report and adopted it. I propose that the National Assembly ensure this report. However, you can order either the National Assembly or you, as chairman of an individual Member or anyone, to obtain this report if you think it will not work. It will seem a little strange that we Members will come with a report and we will share here. Therefore, I propose that the National Assembly do this officially and formally, I think that it is substantively impossible to discuss this further. Firstly, we do not have any expenditure, we do not have all the relevant documents, we do not have a report from the European Commission, which the Minister says would not be taken into account, except in the negotiations with the unions; otherwise we would not have taken it into account. It's getting really confusing, really confusing. Make sure you get all the documents so we can decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much, mag. Spread out. I'll pass on your proposal to the leadership of the National Assembly or to the president, and we'll let you know. I suggest we move on. Mr. Tomaž Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I will point out some thoughts again on health care, because it has been said and the President of the Government himself mentioned health as a priority in his presentation of the budget in the introductory words. Priorities should be set for the constraints we face. I think it is clear to all of us that all the wishes and requirements for financial consolidation and all the expectations cannot be met. On the other hand, when you set priorities, I think you should know them very well for the first time and also make a very good assessment of what these priorities mean. When we talk about health care, we always talk about what is always kind of the first practical thing for everyone; it is a long-known fact. Another well-known fact is that this gap between the needs of the people of Slovenia and the financing of this system has been present for many years. It's really not from today or yesterday, and we've been dealing with this for at least 15 years. However, it is also true that the situation in this area is as difficult as it was, or similar, and we have somehow managed to solve the worst crisis, which is now gone. Today, too, the revenue of the Health Insurance Office is at the expense of all contributions, compared to 2013 and this year, 250 million more; however, we are facing significant health problems. On the other hand, we have information that we are reminded from the outside and inside that Slovenia between the European Community countries is the most threatened, as far as demographic data are concerned, which then relates to the pension system and the health system. It is important to be aware that when it goes beyond a certain limit, we will not be able to resolve this issue overnight, but we need measures that range from today to the next 10, 20, 30 years. When I look at this budget and I hear that this is the priority of this government, unfortunately these measures cannot be seen in the next two years of this budget. While I respect what has been said and what the Minister has made clear what is the health budget. I agree and I am funding, here too the budget gives a little more to complete some investment projects, here we are talking mainly about the university clinical centre and some others. But we have a major problem with the functioning of the health system in other areas. Unfortunately, there is not much to see from this budget. I agree in this part that this is not the task of the state budget in the current legislation. On the other hand, at the Ministry, we commissioned a study, a WHO analysis, which clearly showed that our health system was also threatened by funding, which proved to be a major source of funding based on contributions that were so low during the crisis that it was significantly harder to function. And it was advised, and at that time the current Minister of Finance Dr. Marble also participated, that more funding from the health budget should also be provided. And the fact is, Slovenia is among the countries in Europe that give the least money out of its budget, about 3% of them are devoted to health care. Then there is the Czech Republic, Slovakia, which gives about 7%; all other countries give a significantly higher share. I can understand that we cannot change this percentage overnight and at a time that is unfavorable because of the consequences that we are mitigating in many areas, whether it is infrastructure or anything. We said health care is a priority. I have to say that I am really worried, but I do not want to do any panic or go to any trouble or other; but if I look at that they are based for the next two years only on increased contributions to the health treasury, in the ZZZS; it is said that we are speaking in 2018, if I am not mistaken, slightly less than 24 million, in 2017 around 18 million, higher contributions are estimated. That's it. At the second stop, we have hospitals that have a 100 million loss, we have waiting periods that weigh more than 100 million and we also have a question at the front door, we leave wages, I will not talk about the statement about the requirements, but only the reconciliations that have been made will stand after the then opinion of the minister on the committee about 33 additional millions that the ZZZS will be able to cover at the expense of the services, plus new employment in the coming year. We have over a thousand specialists to specialize in, and we're going to have to hire them, and we need them because we have a number of doctors on our tail. This is also why it is difficult to quickly remove waiting periods. In any case, we will need to operate, and if I do not include any services here at this time, terrible problems with financing the health system. And I hope to say peacefully that this increase in income on the ZZS, which is foreseen, cannot solve them in any way. While we know that already this year the ZZZ is using reserves because of rising costs, because it must not have a loss that has been automatically transferred to hospitals. I just can't imagine that someone giving priority to this area, these few simple things can't be summed up so simply that it won't work. Now let us leave the alternatives, which are, what can be done in the short term, what can be done in the long run; but the next two years will not work this way. And given that we are a social state that already gives a disproportionately large proportion of patients' pockets, supplementary insurance, 450 million goes in a non-solid way out of plugs, plus an estimate of 400 million that goes directly out of pockets. We are already talking about over 30% of the financing of health services in a non-solid way, by knowing that this is not enough today. In this way, as is foreseen here and as it says, we will not solve waiting periods; however, it is one of the main reasons mentioned by the ZZZ for their financial problems. Hospital stock, I'm sure there's a bunch of sick people on account of not getting to treatment in time, not getting to the diagnostics on time, and waiting at home for the hospital, which is also an economic damage not to talk about health. I know that this force is a difficult problem to solve, and so the ZZZS Assembly has also proposed that additional, at least 30 million be assured, because it is not necessary and it is not possible to reduce all waiting periods in one year, it would not be realistic. But I hope to say that from what is envisaged here for this, it simply will not work out. And I don't know how we're gonna put out the fire. What's possible at this stage and at this point in time, it's hard to say. We probably have things more or less shut down. There have been many proposals in recent years, and even now, the Minister is also looking for solutions. I do not know to what extent and to what extent they are coordinated. The fact is that from this material we have at our disposal it is not clear that the budget would take on the costs of specialisations, secondarys, all that the Minister mentions. If that's the case, then at least this time it'll be easier to bridge. Otherwise, I do not see how we will continue to lead what is important to us – the public health system; no matter what solutions will be. However, I would like to say that even if the Minister or Government finds them today and we adopt legislation in this area, there will only be effects in a year, two, three; there will be no effects today. This gap that we already have today, which hospitals won't last much longer. So far, there have always been additional burdens because the ZZZS should not have a minus, it should not have a deficit, it should not be in debt, but all the losses were transferred to hospitals. And if this continues, if there is no other solution, it will be expected that suppliers will start to stop supplying medicines and medical equipment in the following year. There is very little benefit in thinking about how much corruption is and how much money is going through, because it is a problem that we have obviously not yet taken seriously enough; and above all it is not possible to solve overnight. And I personally don't believe that invitations to tender can solve this story. Not by any means, but it'll be clear in a year, because now many are still pretending to be. I hope that I don't know that much of what you've been talking about in the government and among you, among the ministries, and what might be between the lines is that it's not as bad as it looks from the way it's supposed to be. Otherwise, I am afraid that we will face serious health problems in the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, representatives of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues! For this point, we are talking about the 2018 budget. Today you certainly want to create artificial conditions that the budget would not and would not be adopted, not 2017 or 2018. You're working hard. Therefore, to this artificially created fear that the budget will not be adopted, we cannot land in the Modern Centre Party. Minister Koprivnikar, although he is now among us, is still continuing to negotiate on behalf of the Government and will continue, he will probably also announce something in the meantime and wait for his message. Nevertheless, at this point, I would like to say that, as long as the negotiations are ongoing, it is not right to mislead people, that it is wrong to accept the budget, that they must be concerned. No fear, no worry. At this point, I think the Government is still trying to harmonise the budget. Although you really do not drink honey and milk, we have never claimed to be dipping honey and milk, but it must be said that it is economic growth. And if it's economic growth and people have jobs, it's optimism. And there is no reason for people, including those with the lowest income, to be concerned. Today, at this time, we are talking at this moment and there are no bad indicators to this point. Slovenia is still in growth in the euro area, in 7th place. And she is still economically sovereign at this point; we are talking now and at this moment, I am talking about this. Of course, one cannot get rid of the feeling that you want Slovenia not to go well. There is no way to avoid this at this point, that some really want this very badly. I think that at this point to create conditions and predict for next year that everything is bad and that everything will be bad, that these are the problems that you create in every way. Also regarding the investments you've interpreted as a drop in investment. Again and again, investments were the largest in 2014, as they accounted for 45 % of the use of European funds. Certainly, at the beginning of the European perspective we are currently in, they cannot be in addition to the investments made from the integrated budget at this time of the investment; if there are still some documents – including the accreditation that Slovenia needs to receive and that the other members also receive – will be in the process and will be in the process by the end of the year. Nevertheless, the implementation plan is adopted, and it is envisaged that we will put almost a billion and a half worth of projects into implementation in 2016-2018. In the first half of 2016, more than 50 support decisions were issued, or in other words, more than 50 projects, programmes, public tenders totalling more than 600 million, 9 public tenders totalling 73 million euros were approved, 11 programmes from which calls will also be followed. Let me mention once again the road section of Gruškovje–Drazenci, 9 environmental projects. In addition to the above, the SVRK has already accepted in 2016 further applications, which it coordinates with the competent resources. By summer alone, there are more than 600 million funds, representing 20% of the operational programme. In the coming years, a dynamic of approval of support decisions is expected; and it will be even faster. Therefore, the budget also plans to reach the investment level of 2014 only in 2018. As regards the compatibility of the 2017 budget with the rules, it is crucial that the Republic of Slovenia is committed to respect, in the first place, its own fiscal rule, which, according to its own calculations, we respect, taking into account the measures envisaged in the draft budgets; at the same time, we respect international obligations, that is, the Stability and Growth Pact. However, the Ministry of Finance must and will endeavour to meet these commitments with clear constraints so that the measures do not adversely affect economic growth on the one hand; and a clear commitment to the balance of public finances on the other. It is therefore necessary to remain focused and to have a view of the future. And I still say that the 2018 budget is development-oriented. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much. He asked the mag for a replica. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u57	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The fact is, from the last debate by a member of the Modern Centre Party, the Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, it is clear that there is no telling what the left hand is doing, what the right hand is doing, and that coalition is completely decomposed. At the same time, it says that the opposition is hampering the adoption of this budget. No, you have the votes, you can take whatever you want in the National Assembly. We say that we are panicking, while the honourable Member says that the government will still coordinate the budget. There'll be a vote in a few hours. When are you going to coordinate it? When will you reconcile the budget? There's a vote in a few hours. The fact is, this budget is uncoordinated. There's Minister Koprivnik among us again. Dear Minister, you have said that the government will provide additional explanations to Members and Members when adopting the budget as to how you plan for the stability of the budget. Dear Minister Koprivnikar, I suggest you tell us how the government will plan the stability of this budget. And once again, the Minister of Finance said to the committee on Friday, in the event of non-conformity with the unions, yesterday you unanimously rejected the law that it was not suitable for further consideration, which means that no matter had moved. The minister said it was a publicly unsustainable number, it would have to be cut down by other measures. What are these measures? Now the two representatives are here, Vice-President of the Government, Minister Koprivnikar, Minister of Finance, tell us how you will defend the stability of the budget and what measures this will take. Madam President, once again, I call on the Government to be defined for the opinion of the European Commission. Here I have an opinion, you said that the services of the National Assembly would be called upon to find this document somewhere. We found it, this document was published, published on six pages in 15 points. And I look forward to the definition of this opinion by the distinguished Minister or the distinguished ministerial assembly at all points written by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to begin by reminding myself that today is an international day of tolerance. And I will continue in this spirit. We also received a report from the European Commission in the interim during the debate to the Ministry. At exactly 13.19 it came to my e-mail address and as much as I can identify myself in this short time until the report, of course I will. I did not know the result yesterday, but I could expect it because I know on what basis and by what methodology the European Commission prepared it. In preparation, the European Commission held talks at the Ministry of Finance, at other relevant ministries, by 15 October, we sent data to the European Commission, like all other Member States, on the draft state budget and financial plans, or proposals for financial plans for all other public finances and projections of other units of the Sector of the State. And on the basis of these data, the European Commission has made its own assessment. The assessment of expected economic growth, where the European Commission uses lower expectations than our own, has also been used by the European Commission, not by our data. The result of the European Commission's findings, as mentioned earlier, is that if we fail to implement the projected structural reforms and trade union agreement on the scope of wage expenditure, we will come into serious disharmony or disharmony with the objectives to be achieved in accordance with the rules of the European Semester. For this reason, I can see the European Commission document as a very serious reminder that we must continue with the structural reforms outlined; at the same time, I understand this Communication from the European Commission also as a confirmation of our assessment that, given the economic situation in Slovenia, given the stage of the public financial recovery in which we are, we cannot provide public expenditure, which would immediately and fully eliminate all existing restrictive measures. This is exactly why I have been working on this whole time, and I will also work ahead for a gradual and fiscally sustainable action in this area. As far as measures are concerned, I can ensure that we do not plan or anticipate measures, and we are not considering measures on the revenue side to cover a possible higher assessment of expenditure if there is no agreement with the unions. This means that alternative measures, if no agreement is reached, will have to be sought on the expenditure side. However, as I mentioned earlier, negotiations are under way. I suggest we not kill them by thinking out loud about any further action. With regard to the expected deficit – it has been mentioned that we will not respect it – let me point out once again that the deficit, as determined by the National Assembly through the draft budget, is binding and we owe and maintain a public financial policy in accordance with the fact that this deficit is achieved or not exceeded. This is so every year and I see no reason why this should not also be the case with regard to the 2017 and 2018 budgets. I'm warning you again. The budget is coordinated, in line with the public funding options we have. And the measures that can ensure this implementation of the budget under these public funding options are still a matter of negotiation in one part. He'll talk more about it later, probably the minister. Just for a little while longer with regard to health priorities. As in all areas, except for salaries where ongoing negotiations are under way, we have taken into account the existing legislative framework in all the other elements of the budget. If and when new solutions are agreed in the field of health care, we will also support them with appropriate measures in the area of the provision of funds for the implementation of such measures, including, if necessary, amending the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Replica, Mr. Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u61	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, you mentioned in the introduction that today is a day of tolerance. That's what you said after my debate. And I recognized inside that you want to invite me to be impatient, so I will now read to you a part of the Declaration on the Principles of Tolerance: "Toleration is respect, acceptance and recognition of the rich diversity of our world cultures. Tolerance is not laxity, kindness or leniency. Tolerance is primarily an active relationship promoted by the recognition of universal human rights and the fundamental freedoms of others. At the national level, tolerance requires fair and impartial legislation, the implementation of laws and judicial and administrative procedures." Dear Minister, I suggest you read this declaration; and you will see that your coalition and you personally do not comply with this declaration in a number of articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u62	Replica, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the Minister commented on the European Commission's opinion, however, there are some inconsistencies, including the proposal in this context. Firstly, the Minister said at the outset that this opinion was made on the basis of taking into account the expenditure and restrictive measures which the European Commission itself had set and assessed; and that it did not take into account the budget sent to the National Assembly. These are the quotes you said at the beginning, we can look at the magnetogram, I'm reading them here. Now you said they had interviews and that you were sending documents to Brussels. This opinion by the European Commission is here that it is made in the light of the latest economic, economic and budgetary data. At the beginning of this session or a few hours ago, you were deceiving this to be some other information. This is where I looked. We can look at the magnetogram. It is now necessary to establish first that this opinion is relevant. Secondly, this opinion shows a different macroeconomic picture as shown in the budget. This opinion shows different, even more worrying, expenditure and doubts about the revenue forecast in the budget. As a result, it also predicts higher budget deficits, following a Slovenian deficit. Therefore, the question is whether this coalition and this government will take this view into account. For if there is – and I hope there will be – we will be able to decide on the real budget. The real budget is not the European Commission; it is what is real and real. Not a budget made on the basis of wishes or unrealistic data. And if that is the case, I suggest you stop this session and come up with new budgets. Simply come with real budgets and tell people what is really ahead. Because if macroeconomic forecasts are different, if incomes are different, if interest concerns, if concern is about everything that's written in here; then today we're actually talking about some virtual, fairy-tale budget that maybe someone here wants, which is what they wrote in accounting; but not anymore. And I really suggest we go to the real sphere. There are also citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to respond briefly to this topic, which is one of the main issues in this debate when the budget is adopted today, and it concerns managing the cost of work in the coming years, for which budgets are also being adopted. Let me repeat that for a second. The government signed an agreement with trade unions in 2015 on the gradual release of measures implemented in 2016 and will also have consequences in 2017; with which it reversed the trend of tightening public sector wages and also started to eliminate measures, of course in line with public financial capabilities. When we signed this agreement, we also saw where the extreme potential for repayment of funds to public servants who were deprived of full payments in the course of the crisis in agreement with the unions; and at that time we also agreed that in this year, the first deadline was set and signed by both negotiating parties in April, they agreed to gradually release the measures by 2019. This year we had 23 negotiating groups and a number of working meetings, materials and exchanges of proposals, we had a mandate, which was both timely and financially limited, and, in agreement with the trade unions, we also tabled a law on wage measures that would ensure a sustainable, gradual release of labour costs in the coming years; of course, provided for in agreement with the trade unions. This law, which was tabled, was also introduced in a way that took into account the situation of the agreements at the time and also provided for interference in collective agreements, which are actually possible only with the consent of both parties, since it is not possible to do so unilaterally. In this negotiation process, we have neither expected nor calculated that a unilateral intervention would be necessary. Nevertheless, this law had to be tabled because it was part of budgetary material, and in line with the agreement, we also stated on the Committee on 10 November that there was no basis for further consideration of this law because no agreement had been reached. Similarly, we argued on the last committee on the part of the Government when the Members proposed that the law should also be withdrawn at the plenary session, which will be decided later. However, let me say that we are also committed to ensuring its implementation in the next year within the proposed budget. However, if we insist today on unilateral adoption of the law, we would end, as the Minister of Finance has said, the negotiating process and with this country will do irreparable damage, not in a financial sense, damage in the sense of a broken dialogue, which we have still come to an agreement after difficult negotiations. And I must express my firm expectation that this time we will. This expectation is also based on the fact that we are constantly connected with the representatives of the trade unions and that, on their part, we are also ready to continue this negotiation process. We therefore propose that the National Assembly also take this into account when it decides on budgetary matter that, by the start of the implementation of this budget, an agreement will still be reached and measures will also be presented in fact that this is important because it is said, this has also been said at the Committee meeting, that we are very close financially together. With such close views, we propose that we bring this negotiating process to an end, present a coordinated proposal and thus maintain social dialogue. With regard to the financial differences we are talking about, however, we must find that these differences are so small that they do not have to jeopardise the budget in the event that these funds are defined in agreement. This is also the goal of this government, and we therefore propose to the National Assembly that it has an understanding of this social dialogue, that we allow negotiations to be completed, that we reach an agreement, and that we also present concrete material that will complement the entire budget or that will clearly show that there are no more serious obstacles to the implementation of the budget next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Since I see that there is still an interest in the debate, I am giving the opportunity to apply. Mr. Joseph Horvath, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I expected that this debate would also actually help to ensure that the coalition at least partially listens to the opposition's recommendations. Since these are probably the last budget documents that this coalition accepts – well, the next year will certainly be the budget rebalancing for 2018 – but I would like to, and probably now there is so much experience in the new faces in the parliamentary benches as well as in the government to try to adopt the budget documents together. It's not Utopia. You know that we succeeded once when we were in the government in 2012, although we had a very short term, but remember that the budget was also adopted with the support of the opposition; because we listened because we went across the street and understood and accepted the opposition's amendments. Moreover, I am pleased that today this government, in particular President Miro Cerar, is going on the ground cutting strips when various important infrastructure facilities are being opened, which have already started in 2004-2008. Or more precisely, which started at the time because we agreed then that we would support some amendments of the opposition. I recall that this was also the amendment tabled by the LDS in 2008, or more precisely by Dr Mitja Slavinec, to provide 200 000 euros for the project documentation for underground transport in Murski Sobota. 16 million projects, thank God Dr. Miro Cerar opened this year when he cut the tape. Since this Slovenia is not only coalition, this Slovenia is also opposition. And there'd be a little less tension between us or she wouldn't be at all. I regret that there is simply no way back here, you have decided simply not to listen to the opposition proposals and that you will not accept the opposition amendments. All right, so much greater responsibility and absolute responsibility is only on your, that is, coalition side. Yesterday, I have heard several times what is also true for the 2018 budget, which we are now considering, that we should not be obliged not to do so and that we should not develop, because we have the Fiscal Rule Act. We could understand that now, because of this law; we have a fiscal rule law because there must be some budgetary discipline or because we already owe about 83% of the gross social product, which is 364% of the budget revenue for 2017; or with absolute figures just over €32 billion. That's why we have a fiscal rule. But not so that we shouldn't be working the second track, the third development axis, and so on. Here we must be very correct with our citizens. Yesterday, a colleague of Zvonko Lah, among very rare debaters, raised the issue of the revenue side. We can all be very good when it comes to sharing money. We all know, we all have a lot of wishes, a thousand and one, for that regional road, for that axis, for that clinic, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to start talking about a new concept today. I spoke yesterday in my position about the need for a new economic model, i.e. a new concept of how to get in the country or to produce more money, if you want. So we need to talk about the revenue side, how to increase the revenue side. And we probably all have the answer to the question of where the money is. Money is being made in the economic sector. I do not accept the perceptions, because I do not speak ill of the public sector, of course we also need the public sector. And I will now say here that we are in New Slovenia for having nurses, educators, teachers and so on decent wages. But that's not the topic right now. Now the topic is the revenue side. We need a new economic model, a new concept for the 21st century. I believe, and I know you can't make it overnight. The government is the one that is most responsible for this and the government is the one that needs to provide answers on how to get more funding, in the long run, in the medium term, let's say, forward to provide more money. And I'm going to health first. Perhaps someone will say that there is enough of it in the healthcare system, but that it is not properly or honestly spent, and finally the KPC is clearly talking about the presence of systemic corruption in the health system. Some say that, at the annual level in the health system, about 500 million euros disappear because of corruption. I'm not going to go into this right now because I don't understand these things, so we have the competent authorities. The fact is, thanks to medicine, including a better way of life, a higher standard, life in Slovenia as well, and thank God for longer. The life expectancy is longer and is on average strong over 80 years. What do I mean by that? This makes me think of the need to introduce long-term care. This law is said to have been in checkers for several years, but of course the problem is again the revenue side of the budget. Not long ago, I was talking to an expert who also knows this matter from a financial perspective. He says that we would hire volunteers, many of whom we have in Slovenia, but that system would still cost us about EUR 400 million per year. We are here because of people, and we will increasingly have those who will need such or other care. How do we continue to provide enough money for education? We could talk about this for a long time, but the government won't give us any answers. Three years ago, four years ago, security may have been reasonable for all of us. Today's gone. Therefore, it is necessary to invest in security. I will remind again of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted here last July, where we wrote, inter alia, that the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to then our basic security framework. The security framework and that's good. This is not what we invented here in the National Assembly, but it was the decision of our people on 23 March 2003 at the referendum when about a million people came to vote and whether or not we decided that Slovenia should become a member of NATO. And there are rules, now that sparrows are chirping, written or unwritten, about 2% of the gross social product should be invested, invested in safety. We're somewhere in the middle of that share. I believe that we cannot just make such a jump in the 2017 budget, and that is also true, we must also pour our ashes here, who we may have been in the National Assembly for a long time. Because at the time, as we understood that security was in itself reasonable, we wrote amendments and so on and always took up armies, as they say, so to speak, to the defence budget. In this area, therefore, it remains open to find financial resources to reach 2% of GDP in security funds. Local self-government. Why must the government and coalition in some way be at odds with local self-government? Why can't the government provide, according to the Community Financing Act, according to the methodology that exists for calculating the average, why can't the government provide enough money? Then there's tension and bad will. Because our budget is too low. There's the answer. And when I talked to the director of the new Slovenian Water Directorate in Pomour this year, now we have a state-owned water management, which will also provide drinking water, this department has about 120 employees, this year's budget is 26 million, when you deduct the amount of wages, and probably also have some computers and spaces, and so on, then you see, I have calculated one average that on every Slovenian municipality, on average, I stress that the waste from this budget is 80 000 euros. I do not know if this Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia sees for water really every stream there in the far east, the far west of this country or does not see it. Here I am very sorry that it has come to this that simply the Government and the coalition did not respect the European Charter of Local Self-Government or better the principle of subsidiarity. It is always better for the local community to take care of its watercourses and, of course, the state has to provide it with sufficient financial resources in accordance with the law. I'm going to the pension area. There was a lot of talk about that yesterday. Indeed, those who are now retired and will be more and more, which is perfectly normal, because I initially talked about the expected life expectancy in Slovenia in Europe, thank God, prolonging. And here I can simply say that simply from the white book pensioners will not be able to live. We all know the principle of the formation of funds or the charging of pension funds. We're back on the revenue side. I simply cannot accept it when I look at statistics, say for 2015, and I find that 39.5% of all pensioners had a pension of less than 500 euros. 39,5 %. But if I look at all the pensioners who were 612 thousand last year and extrapolate, then I find that this was 45% who had pensions of less than 500 euros. No one among us can be satisfied with this. And these, of course, were the people who, as we say many times, built this country. Even their active lives invested their knowledge, their efforts, their abilities to support their own family and, of course, that they are a filling state budget. We also have little money in this area. He pays in the public sector. If people were satisfied, they wouldn't strike today, strike tomorrow and so on. Gini's coefficient, which I present here several times, otherwise says that Slovenian society is a very egalitarian society, that we are in some narrow zone, as far as our standard of living is concerned. What is this standard of living when compared with the countries we like to compare ourselves with, Scandinavian, Austria, Germany and so on? And our answer, you know the answer to New Slovenia. All this mandate, as well as any previous one, we propose to the coalition, the National Assembly of Legal Solutions, which would give more opportunities for the prosperity of the Slovenian economy, because from there and first, from there comes the charging of the revenue side of the state budget. Of all the reforms that we have listed and listed, I find today that we need first thinking reform, mental reform. We still, at least today, some, not all, see whether you see entrepreneurs, businessmen, craftsmen, privateists as some capitalists, rich people. And we walk around the field, 40 times we've been on the ground, and employers and business owners and directors say, let's say, "We're a small family company, the fourth generation runs this company or the third generation, we have 60 employees, we're lucky because we have such a good team. We are a good team and people are our biggest capital.” That's what we hear in the field. Now you will say, yes, of course, there are exceptions, including some barabbas that should now have a place somewhere else, not on the loose, who didn't pay their workers contributions to health, pension insurance and so on. We have inspections for that. How, then, can the revenue side of the State budget be increased? The only and only thing, according to our assessment, is by improving the business environment, by lower taxes, by debirocratisation and internationalisation of our economy or by an open economy, which means that we have to make our country so attractive to domestic and foreign investors. That is exactly the policy we think of, according to New Slovenia, also the best social policy. Because such a policy is the one that creates new jobs. Of course, we all want only those who will be paid well, we are not interested in jobs with a minimum wage, because the father's minimum wage unfortunately does not provide a family with a life worth living. As you will recall, when we proposed a new Law on Income and proposed a very simple solution, it generally facilitates €7,000. Consumption would increase, the net would be higher, of course the net in the public sector would also be higher and perhaps these negotiations would not be necessary today. Why 7 grand? Because on the website of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and so on, you can see that the poverty threshold for one person in 2015 was EUR 7 000 399 per year. That's why it makes it easier for us in general. As a rule, high taxes are no longer tax revenue. We are very disappointed when we look at the tax measures of this government. Fresh, say, so-called mini-tax reform. What has this mini tax reform done? This is not a reform, it is not a tax restructuring, it is, as I have said many times before, a translation of taxes or the imposition of taxes on new, higher and higher, exclusively the Slovenian economy. And now I want to prove it. This also applies, of course, to 2018, although I will tell you about 2017. If you look at the inflows from corporate income taxes, you can see the number 578 million in the planned budget 2017. In the balance sheet 2017, so when the new Law on corporate income tax is included, we see that these inflows will be more than 108 million. So the economy will pay 108 million more taxes than legal persons' income. Let's go to the check. The budget 2017 998 million in income and the budget balance for 2017 is 49 million less. That's okay, we welcomed that, because the Minister of Finance herself said that we have the most steep income scale in Slovenia, that is, a progressive scale in the world. In one part, this curve has now become a little more relaxed, a little less steep. So from income minus 49 million, from corporate income taxes 108 million more, which means that the country has increased its greed by 59 million. This is the effect, it will be the effect of a mini-tax reform for next year. Therefore, we do not have much hope of getting a new economic model, a new concept, by the end of this term, until 2018. A key question, ladies and gentlemen, is how to increase the revenue side. When we have the answers to this question, then we will not shudder at the opinion of the Commission, as we today are shaking and we see that this budget for 2017 is simply not adequate, it is not in accordance with the Stability Pact. And we are members of the European Union, and we must adhere to some of the European rules that we have adopted together. How to increase the revenue side? According to our assessment, we are trying to unlock the potential of individuals in this country. Unleashing the potential of private people, but some want to have not public schools, but public schools, because what I've heard the last time, is not the definition of public education, state education. We have to separate. And we want to have state health care without the privates participating, investing their potential, knowledge and money. And I conclude with a specific case, in the municipality of Tišina, a school case of public-private partnership. The Municipality of Silence gives 180 000, the private doctor gives 66,000 of his own – whose own money?– his own money. They're changing, they're reconstructing some castle, they're rereading, and there's now a little micro micro clinic, and the Minister of Health won't let them do that. Wrong world. He gave his own money to a private man, his own money, and the secretary said no. And there are, I guarantee you, a few tens maybe a hundred. And until we carry out a thinking reform until we release the potentials of private people, who, of course, do, they also have to pay taxes and respect the laws, so that it is clear. If I'm in law enforcement, the first one who has to respect the laws is, of course, the government. Yesterday, I was talking about the fact that the government doesn't respect the Development Support Act in Pomure. This will have to be repeated every day to get caught. That's not a lie, that's the truth I'm saying. That's just the situation in this country. And just for the end. Yesterday, a citizen sent me an e-mail at 1:44 p.m. and writes, I don't know him, saying: "I wonder who hopes to ask the Government how it is with privileged, read, unearned pensions. Is it not time to carry out a review of these pensions?” End of question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u69	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! It has already shown well that at the time of my discussion there will be three very important ministers, as far as this budget is concerned, one is a minister who covers foreign affairs, but says he is very busy with pensions, while the Minister of Education and the Minister of Public Administration left. But don't worry. This morning, it is very complicated whether we have a fictional budget or have an empty budget, whatever we have, the fact is that the procedure itself, as this government coalition brings it, is not good, is wrong and will set a dangerous precedent for all the other constituents of this Parliament, because in the future, when someone refers to parliamentary practice, we can say, we can accept any budget we want, even if it is not balanced, even if it is not harmonised and we will fix it later. This is certainly not good for a normal state of law. Given that we are not taking a concrete new budget for 2017, but a rebalancing of the budget for 2017, it would be a normal path for the 2017 version if, as the Minister of Public Administration said that you still wanted to negotiate with the unions, it would be a normal way if you rejected the law yesterday as inappropriate to reject this budget for 2017 as inappropriate because it is uncoordinated and not balanced. And nothing would have happened because the budget for 2017 was valid and the stories would have moved on. But this was yesterday's debate, and today we are debating in the 2018 budget, a general debate, and I would say that in my debate I will focus on two issues, one which concerns the revenue itself, and the other, which concerns expenditure. In the meantime, that the Minister, who I hope and I wish to see that, at the end of the day, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will have enough time to really cover the pensioners, to consider and perhaps to answer this question, how does he comment on the matter, that he says that pension reform is unnecessary, and the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia says that we will get 100,000 new pensioners in the next ten years, that is important information that we will continue to pay more than a billion euros in pensions from the budget and that pensions, despite Desus in the governments, are extremely low? At the end of my debate, I think he will have enough time to respond appropriately to this question of how he comments on these matters. This government has long claimed that political stability is a key issue and that this is what Slovenia needs, and that after the Government provides political stability, the time will come when serious changes will take place, adjustments to our social systems or, if you want to use a slightly unpopular word, reforms. Two years of this term is over, the first two years have passed, the first year you've been putting together a team. I think you've set a record by number of replaced ministers in one year, but of course, any new client who comes in, who isn't fortified, has a staff problem. Then came the second year, when it was mainly staffed by state and other public companies, that is, in the first two years, we had political stability, and now the remainder of your mandate, or the second half of your mandate, followed by these key reforms in the field of health, public administration and all other systems. And these reforms are supposed to be reflected in the basic document of each government, which is in the budget. Yesterday we discussed that these reforms cannot be understood in the 2017 budget. The same can be found for the 2018 budget. Nor does it reveal any serious changes in our system. Today I am reading the message that Minister Vraničnik Erman has assessed that the Brussels assessment is a warning for the continuation of the reform. Well said and all, but what the Minister said is not reflected in the 2018 budget. In the review of our Slovenian for 2017, the European Commission has identified a number of unpleasant things and we are not in the most encouraging group of Member States as regards the budget. I would like these things to be brought together a little bit, as the government representatives say, and then what also appears through the budget documents. I cannot go beyond this case, the case of Ireland, at least according to the number of inhabitants, these two countries, Slovenia and Ireland, would be fairly well compared, but the differences in development are obvious. While those things got serious, we primarily bought social peace. Today someone will say in response to this debate, yes, because the economic growth of Ireland and Slovenia is roughly similar. Indeed, but readiness to face the future crisis and all the challenges posed by demography, our high public debt and so on, and these two countries are substantially different. It's very different. If we said we didn't need threes and we went to the market for money to save our systems and we borrowed money there dearly, they went for cheap money to the threesome, we carried out reforms and today they're doing just fine. Perhaps just to consider those who have claimed that reforms do not work and how they bring bad and disastrous things. But we've got some serious and difficult challenges ahead of us. Demography – I am the coalition, except that it occasionally talks about the demographic fund, I am the second one by the coalition to take seriously the demographic issues I have not heard, and this is extremely important for our future, for the vision of Slovenia. Our society is getting older, the child is not, if you want to say very hard, there are no new taxpayers. In the long run, such a society is hard to survive. However, to make my first move, because I think we could make an important addition to the 2018 budget. European money – here we are extremely inefficient or extremely poor in drawing. If you have read the report of the Government on the European funds we have received in these days on our bench, you can conclude that we have not received any euro from Europe. Nothing. Somebody's gonna say yes, and that's not a matter of budget. Oh, it sure is. Due to the fact that European money can help enormously in economic growth, some economic growth, and so important, contributes to budgeting, to income generation. Remember, those last financial perspectives 2007-2013, when this financial perspective was in the last breaths of this financial perspective, projects were very much being prepared, there were a lot of pressure on Members in this regard, because there were more projects than there was money available and so on. But whatever things you're turning and looking back, that financial perspective and that intense construction of water pipelines, sewerage across Slovenia helped to raise economic growth. The machines were working, the workers were working, construction was back up again a little bit, and the economic wheel was spinning. And that was for us, I wanted us to learn from this, that this would be an important school for us, in the sense that, in that financial perspective, we got very far in the end, when the water was running down our throats, and now it will be significantly different in this new financial perspective. And now we have 2014 – nothing, 2015 – nothing, and the third year is running out of money. Again, I'm not making these things up, but this is a conclusion, I think, that a prominent member of the SD who recently wrote a column that I think is correct and that tells us briefly all the essential things, where the problem is that we don't use this money. And a member of the SD explains and writes that the problem is bureaucratic and administrative, that this government, the government coalition, did not accept all the necessary documents so that the money could begin to draw. Sometimes it's hard to understand that even what we have at our disposal, we don't take the 3 billion we have at our disposal. However, when the Group of Members walks on the ground, many mayors encourage us to be completely lacking in the priorities or operational programmes of this financial perspective and to better focus on other things. And another important finding where the government officials have been so mean to me. When we asked ourselves why most of this European money is still not about infrastructure, which is, according to the local reference to sewerage and plumbing, why has some conversion now taken place in this new financial perspective, that more money is going into social activities, some government representatives of the Council have convinced me, see, this is what the European Commission said and we have nothing here. Okay, and I'm all screwed up to come to Brussels, they had one exchange within the EPP and they've arranged meetings with different officials from the European Commission, and I'm starting to point out right now how this is possible, for example, for the European Commission to set such priorities for us, not what we would like. And I turned out to be the biggest fool because they told me that this was a matter of a Member State, not a matter of the European Commission. The Member State proposes a programme which the European Commission only approves. I know that these things are difficult, that the vast majority don't even care or care, but they are dependent on billions of money, that is, billions of European money, and I think we should focus more on these things. The next revenue issue, because it also seems important to me, is the recovery of existing debtors. I remember what the pump was and the dissatisfaction when our government published a list of taxpayers, which helped a little bit, at least in those small fish to settle their debts. But it's amazing that bigger than a taxpayer, the more he's left alone. That's hard to understand, too. With regard to income — What else could be important if we let people work? But it seems to me that in this country everything turns out to be so that people are not allowed to work or even more that it is not worth doing, because it is probably in the interests of this country, that as many people as possible are employed, that they pay taxes to pay their contributions, that is in the interest of all of us. But other bureaucratic systems and all sorts of things make it almost worthwhile for people not to work. I'm just gonna point out a few things. Remember the dual status that the Chamber of Commerce has sought to ensure that a craftsman who has completed 40 years of service may receive a pension and continue to carry out his activities, provided that he pays full contributions. This is where I expected Desus to at least insist that Desus would help the pensioners, but no. So it would be logical for these people who are willing to do something else who are willing to pay something in cash to let them do it, but we said no. And it happened that, of course, everyone wants to have a full pension, all these craftsmen decided to formally transfer their activities to their children, their wives, their husbands, and so on, to receive a full pension, and they themselves continued to do as they have done so far. And the country, at least in this part, lost its contributions. Find out again who can! Bureaucrat. If we were still mayors in this House, then we would be able to tell you that the adoption of municipal spatial plans is a disaster, that you should adopt a municipal spatial plan for 8 years or more, and it depends on how a municipality develops and how you will even allow development in this municipality, how you will leave an economic initiative. Anyone who makes any progress here will be able to move ahead more quickly in order for the municipal spatial plans to be adopted here. It's about school. If there were a unionist, it would also be interesting to hear a comment from him about how he estimates that the generation of children attending school has been decreasing all the time, while the number of teachers has been increasing. The number of objects has also increased, and when you look at international research and OECD assessments, you find that there are abnormally many functionally illiterate young people in Slovenia. It is difficult to understand that we have a school system that requires more and more young people to remember, and there are more and more objects, but there are more and more functionally illiterate young people. Sometimes I get the feeling that this school system is meant to compete in who has a better memory, because the one who remembers better is doing better. But it doesn't matter to this society, but it's important that you have someone in a specific area who can make some progress, move on. And one more thing that's problematic. When young people leave the school system, they are practically unprepared for work and say that it takes them six months or more to train them to do so. I don't know why we wouldn't be using a dual system in Slovenia, as in some other northern countries where things work. In this way, young people could be brought to work earlier, and the country would also have something, i.e. in terms of paying contributions and taxes. That's a few of my thoughts on income. And now for the expenses. If I focus only on the key or the maximum expenditure that is high for this budget, it is certainly necessary to place the transfer in the pension register here. In the 2018 budget, €1.25 billion or a thousand 250 million will be transferred from the state budget to the pension fund. And I once again ask the Minister, for whom I truly hope that someday the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be able to finally fight for the pensioners, to explain how sustainable he is through his pension system, and how he plans to maintain the pension system in the next 10 years, when we have 100 thousand more pensioners, when already these pensions are not high and large. The next thing I know, because I think it's a big expense, it's interest. For interest, we will spend 985 million euros in the 2018 budget. A big number that tells us what we could do with that money if we didn't have to pay that much for that interest. In Parliament, we have already tried and fought rhetorically many times, who is more responsible for our external debt, but the numbers are inexorable, from 2008 to today, this debt increased from 22.5% of GDP to over 80%, or from 8 billion to 30 billion. And it's not for free, it costs and it costs more every year in recent years. This isn't about wealth figures, but you can see it's about a tenth of the budget. People need to be told that we give a tenth of our budget just for interest. This money would be used in one year to make a joke on another track, and some bridge and some other road in Slovenia. The third major expenditure from the budget is also subsidies. I do not know whether all the subsidies make sense, except in the specific area of agriculture, also because of other markets in other parts of the world. But if it makes sense for the country to raise money from all of us first, then some people share it. If I used the term anti-corruption commission, I'd say there could be huge risks to corruption. Or would it not make more sense, instead of collecting money and then sharing it, to give tax reliefs to those companies, to those segments of our economy that we want to help them, to say that they don't need to pay a certain amount of taxes, to give them some relief, because we want to only encourage a segment, rather than first collecting this money, then we demand that people sign up for these calls, and then we share that money. If we went to relief, at least that part of applying for tenders and potential corruption risks would be eliminated. With regard to future reforms. Another important expenditure is social transfers. I walk in Slovenia and people say that the social system is not worth working for. Recently, we were with a group of Members on a visit to Šentjury, where a successful entrepreneur said that with 100,000 people working on the stock market, as it is now formally called, at the employment office, 100,000 people who are officially unemployed do not receive workers in 100,000 people for a net salary of around 1,000 euros. I find that incredible and impossible to understand. But apparently there are such cases. And then it probably holds what some people say is logical, if you add up all the support, free kindergarten, school meals, occasional support, and a few hours a week, that's more than if you worked somewhere for a minimum wage. And, of course, in Parliament, Mr Orban is extremely opposed to politics, but at least in this part he needs to acknowledge some movement forward when they have also committed to some concrete work in Hungary in this sense, that if he receives social support, then something needs to be done for the community. Of course, the disabled and the sick are exempt, the ones who can't work. But if anyone is capable of work, if he wants some support, it is only right that the community should do something about it. To end just two more words on the defence budget. The Chief of Staff, clearly, said that the military needs an additional 46 million to just train those things that the military already has. This money is not given to him by this government coalition, which means that this collapse of the Slovenian Army will continue in some way. And here I see the extraordinary responsibility of the Social Democrats, whom I consider to be one of the stronger pillars of this coalition and also of a politically very clever partner, to know what he is doing and what he is doing, but to help the Minister of Defence a little bit, so that a little more resources can be made available here. If he managed to provide more resources to the Jews, this should also be for Katič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much, mag. Tonin. Mr. Urosh Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! Believe that this time I will be shorter than ever because we are talking about the 2018 budget, and we are already repeating ourselves in some way through the discussion. Indeed, yesterday was the debate on the budget for 2017. I must say, of course, in the introduction, that I am a little disappointed, a little in the uncertain situation, when I see that we have not yet closed these negotiations between the trade unionists and the government. Otherwise, one proverb says that hope is always the last, and I like to hold this proverb over and over again, and I also believe that this conversation and this negotiation will ultimately bring an agreement and that we can close and close the matter in the interest of all of us here. Throughout this debate – I have tried to spend most of my time in the hall – somehow I cannot shake the feeling that you are trying to show this account extremely negatively in the opposition. Of course, no other budget in the past or in the future will be black and white. There will be some nuances here, no one will be perfect. That's what I said yesterday. I don't think people need an outpouring of maximum pessimism here. The country will move on. I believe there will be positive trends. That the economic growth that many recognised economists are forecasting will increase further, that the number of unemployed will decrease and that, however, this country will embark on some progress, some progress. I would like to sign many of your debates, from each of you who have discussed them. Especially on that side to whom, how much and, of course, what needs to be given. The second part of the budget, and the second part of each balance sheet, of course, is how we will collect all of this, how we will gather for unlimited desires, the unlimited need to be liked and help people, and also honestly help people, I believe that in your debates, above all, there is more honesty. If I touch the priority of this government, the priority of Desus, my priorities, if you will. Of course, pensions are often mentioned and among many of you are one of the key priorities. It's about paying money to those 35, 40, 45 and more years of work, working, working, giving up, and all the time paying all the contributions, all the taxes, all the taxes. Today, however, a smooth payment of these pensions is called into question. We have achieved something small this year. We have achieved that after many years we have begun to coordinate pensions. This means that that bottom, in my firm belief, is exceeded that bottom and that things are only going up in reality. But of course, like I said yesterday, we're not stopping here, it's not enough for us. We want to achieve regular reconciliation of pensions with the next item in the agenda, i.e. with ZIPro, we will also achieve it in 2017, in January. It's more than the government has proposed, and it's because of Desus, it's our efforts, it's our efforts, it's our stubbornness if you want. We will also leave room, I believe that the economic situation will be such, a space for extraordinary reconciliation of pensions over the next year. It'll pay off the regress. And what is important is that we will also take seriously the debates on the so-called White Paper on pensions, where some things are positively set up, but some of them are disturbingly concerned, but this is hardly the basis for us to change legislation in such a way that pensions in the future will be such as to allow each of us who enters into the system of paying them a decent life. We're not giving up on this. Of course, it is also important for us to be social, and it is also important for us to be social. It's very important to me personally. And the budget for 2017 and 2018 shows that funds are increasing in this area. More resources are allocated for active employment policy programmes, more funds are allocated for cash social assistance, more funds are allocated for school meals, scholarships, and, last but not least, the reorganisation of social work centres. It is, and this is also positive, less funding for unemployment benefits, which is due to realistic expectations that their number will continue to decline in the coming years. So at social level, if it is obvious to the Government that there is no transparency, there must be a priority concern for the socially disadvantaged governments as well. We want to do so in December, as the Minister warned us, or as she herself said she would come with a program or with an agenda, of course, on how to deal with health issues. We will be happy to listen to this and to help with our best efforts, so that also healthcare with additional resources in 2017 and 2018 is not on the list of priorities. Last but not least, there is more funding for the education that the ministry receives, just as previously mentioned by the ministries, for its important field of education from March to the university, which is a guarantee that, under such a policy led by the Minister, the public school system will be made available to all, free of charge, to all, regardless of where it comes from and what its material situation is. Of course, there is also the Ministry of Economy or Economics, which is also a priority. I want more resources to be allocated than in the field of development and investment. Finally, tax reliefs were mentioned earlier. We have quite a few tax incentives here, incentives for investment and so on, so that the obvious fact that we have raised 2% of the corporate income tax this year is not justified in my firm belief, because, despite the fact that we have raised it by 2%, we remain deeply below the average of the European Union countries. At the same time, it has to be said that we have not actually raised it by 2%, because there are still different reliefs here, I will not now list them, which are effectively increasing by 2%. As I said in the introduction, I am not overly impressed by the fact that we have not yet finished, but I believe that we will, the social dialogue and the union agreement with the Government. I am also not impressed by the European Commission's report, which we have had the opportunity today, not yet to familiarise ourselves with it, but with the information that it is prepared and that, with regard to budgetary risks, Slovenia belongs to the third group in which these risks exist and does not bring anything positive. I am not impressed with this, but this does not mean that we must now stop adopting budgets, that we must stop the country from being the side of the bell. No, that means everything else. It means not to be afraid of it, but at the same time to take note of it and at the same time continue to correct the imbalances, correct the deficits and insist on this path. But I would like to do that, and I will conclude that I will not repeat myself too much. I absolutely advocate the gradual release of various measures, the gradual release of restrictions in which we have been forced in the past, but not in any way, and here I point out to all those who, in the executive branch of power in the operational sense, drive the policy of this country, by no means foolishly insist or persist in the stupid fiscal squeeze, because be assured that monetary policy itself cannot possibly guarantee growth, such as we wish, not that half a percent or something like that. Fiscal policy should not behave as it has done many times now – and I am not saying that only in Slovenia and only in Slovenia, even wider – with stubborn belt tightening. We need to ensure one expected optimal economic growth through the preparation of budgets and through the implementation of these budgets, implementation. In doing so, and I warn you again, do not forget that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that we are a social state. Do not forget this social role of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Prickle. Colleagues, I ask my colleagues whether anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the supplementary draft budget. I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I'm sorry. Did anyone else want to discuss it? Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. As already announced by my fellow Member at the beginning of the discussion on budgets, we will support in the party Desus of the budget for 2017 and 2018 and the law on their enforcement because it would cause harm to many social groups, especially vulnerable and also pensioners. Desus strives to improve the lives of all groups, young families, retired and most vulnerable social groups, including the elderly. In times of economic crisis, governments have also limited the coordination of pensions. It is true that Desus and only a few members of his 90 members in 2012, 2013 and 2014 could not have had a significant impact on the actions of the previous two governments, which had the majority of decision-makers on the measures. And then there was virtually no reconciliation of pensions. Thus there was no harmonisation of pensions in 2012. In the government of Alenka Bratušek there was only a negligible alignment of pensions by 0.1% and 4.6 million euros. Pensioners know well that of those 38 euros per pension, which we have heard a great deal about these days, pensioners have not seen in their pensions in the form of an increase in pensions or the euro. This is not an indication of the past two governments; it was a crisis, but it makes no sense to mislead the public and the pensioners that they were then receiving pension coordination, as pensioners closely monitor the increase in their pensions. They are well aware that there were virtually no increases in pensions in 2012, 2013 and 2014. However, we can regret that during this period some political parties have called the troika, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission and that the bankruptcy of the country has been declared, which has only deepened the crisis in Slovenia. I hope that the call of the troika or the European Commission will no longer be repeated, because this cannot be in favour of the State. I would also be pleased if political parties were able to combine their knowledge for the benefit of all the people of Slovenia, especially the less wealthy and vulnerable. It is right that the opposition points to the possible weaknesses of the coalition, which is its role. Unfortunately, all the good intentions of the parties when they are in opposition tend to flare when they come to power. Some, however, do not give up social caps for the rich even when they are in opposition. The coalition, however, needs to find answers to the challenges. During the crisis, the retired and the party Desus made a significant contribution to its resolution, as political opposition also threatened the financial stability of the whole country and thus the long-term social security of the population. In 2015, Desus provided an additional EUR 19 million for the annual allowance, in 2016, for an extremely 0.7 per cent harmonisation of pensions in January and for the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in October by 0.4 per cent. Even in this budget, we have achieved an average increase of around €7 per month in pensions with the coalition partners, following strong negotiations with the coalition partners. With this, of course, we are not yet satisfied with Desus, because in our view, they should receive a higher share of gross domestic product growth. This is expected to increase by 2.3% in 2016, 2.9% in 2017 and 2.6% in 2018. While we are aware of the commitment under the Fiscal Rule Act, we are following our constitutional and legal and European commitments regarding the gradual structural improvement of public finances and the movement of public expenditure and debt. However, we do not agree that this is happening at the expense of the most vulnerable groups and the less wealthy. We believe that these commitments, if they cannot be untied, should be borne by the wealthy employers and the most wealthy groups in society, but not by the less wealthy and poor population, including the retired. On the basis of the 2015 agreement, the government has already abolished the largest austerity measures in the public sector in this year and in the coming years, releasing the salary scale of public servants, which will total over 200 million workers in 2016. In 2017, however, the already agreed relaxations bring additional 110 million wages to public servants, as we have already heard yesterday. It also offered the unions a gradual release of all austerity measures up to and including 2019 in line with the extreme capacity of public finances. In the course of progress, the Government has enabled all public servants to make progress for all the years that have passed since the progress has been delayed. In view of the above, I regret that, in the current financial situation, the public sector strikes in the part where there is pressure to raise high and highest wages. On average, the teacher is expected to have a gross salary of around EUR 1,000 800. A high school teacher of about EUR 3 000 300, a cleaning woman of only EUR 633, an assistant in higher education of about EUR 2 000, and a doctor with no specialization should have an average gross salary of around EUR 600 after training. Of course, negotiations are justified in order to raise minimum wages, but by no means the highest wages, which would seriously endanger the state's public financial stability. However, I am particularly sorry for human health and therefore, in my view, the unethical sentence of doctors, especially in their efforts to increase their maximum medical wages. The specialist doctor is expected to have an average gross monthly salary of around EUR 5 000 300, without undue public sector and without earnings outside the public sector. The damage done by doctors sitting in two chairs is immeasurable and patients suffer. Further failure to comply with medical requirements, which would increase the erosion of funds intended for patients from the common payroll and for patients, is neither ethical nor unacceptable. The Medical Chamber, which sincerely seeks to disrupt public health care and privatise public health institutions, while failing to carry out its part of supervision at all, would immediately withdraw the power of the responsible Government to do all the work that is not well done. I suggest to the government that a negotiator with doctors be appointed a person who will not compromise harmfully with Fides against the deterioration of the patient's health. However, solutions should be sought for those with the lowest income, which should be ensured by contributions from the most wealthy in society. Although we are not satisfied with all the budget in Desus, it must be said that the budget is towards increasing the resources of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Ministry of Health, which is good. Desus strongly negotiated to achieve that January's reconciliation of pensions would be 1.15% and not just 1%, as originally planned. Despite the achievements of Desus negotiated, however, we have found that only reconciliation of pensions is no longer sufficient. We have also announced in Desus that we will continue to strive to improve the situation of the pensioners. We have also made this clear in our oral question to the Prime Minister of the Government on Monday. Although we have not yet received an appropriate response, we insist on appropriate measures to address poverty among the elderly. In Desus, we are convinced that the ratio between the average net pension and the average net salary, which was only 55.4% in 2015, needs to be restored. Although, according to the OECD recommendations, this ratio is expected to be around 70%. Pensions should be increased to the level that pensions would have reached if there were no past freezes. It is necessary to legislate decent minimum wages for families to survive, so that post-retirement workers do not slip into poverty. Decent minimum pensions should be legalised, as the current one is strong below the poverty line. Gradually, employers' contributions should be increased to the level that workers pay for pensions. Free compulsory insurance for long-term care should be introduced and payments for health services should be abolished, as it is unacceptable for the social state that the disease can put an individual in poverty, as we have heard today by SDS Members. Older people need incentives for post-retirement employment and a more effective youth employment policy needs to be pursued. In view of today's debates, I am pleased that all political options do not support the elimination of poverty even among the retired and the resolution of other important problems for people, and that you support the improvement of the material situation of the pensioners. So I look forward to the Government's proposals in this direction, and I believe that the Members will be happy to support them together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u74	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. I listened with interest to the predecessor, especially in the area of how to eliminate poverty, as well as the wishes and expectations or demands of the Desus Group in this direction. And I, Madam Secretary, am interested in what you will do to ensure that your coalition partner, Desus, in this matter, the so-called elimination of poverty, is also heard. Today we have often heard opposition Members having problems with this budget, but now I think we have received a lot of wishes, demands and requests from the Desus Group. However, I am interested in this matter, because if you do not want to listen to the opposition, it is probably right that you listen within the coalition, and I am interested, Madam Minister, where in the 2018 budget there are the extensions following the wishes of the Desus Group in their understanding that they will be more easily supported by the 2018 budget, which we are talking about, that there are also segments set up in this budget that follow their requests, that is to say, the elimination of poverty, which is probably what we all want, but it will probably have to be less said and more done. And the debate on the 2018 budget is an ideal opportunity to see what are the extensions of this coalition, which also includes Desus, and the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, where the extensions are within individual departments, so that we can speak seriously once again in the National Assembly on the problem of poverty eradication. However, I am curious whether the remaining coalition partners, when we have a vote on the Government's replies to the question, will support the efforts of Ambassador Desus to speak on this subject beyond the financial framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u76	Mrs Urska Ban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you so much for the word. Hello, Minister and all the rest of the government! I won't be long, I practically said my position yesterday on both budgets, but today there was much to hear about how we discussed in some euphoria, how we drained honey and milk. That's not how I assessed my deliberations yesterday. I have even pointed out some things that do not follow the opposition's claims here. Especially in this sense that, in real terms, when compared to the pre-crisis period, from 2008, we are still not really where we were. And once again, the revenues in 2008 totalled EUR 8 billion 500 million and we are only expected to exceed them in 2017 when they amount, they are forecast, and 8 billion 800 million and then in 2018 9 billion and 200 million. And these revenues will not increase compared to 2008 at the expense of tax revenues, when they amounted to 7 billion 600 million in 2008 and then in the budget for 2017 7 billion 300 and something else and for 2018 7 billion 500, but at the expense of the European Union funds, which were 363 million, we now know, we are talking about a little less than billions of euros. In addition to this data, we can see that in 2008, we had over 20% of our debt to GDP, today 83% to GDP, and that the interest at the time was 400 million, now over a billion euros. We are still facing a deficit that we are reducing to 600 million in 2017, 681 million euros and 305 million euros in 2018. And this situation certainly does not allow us to free up all desires, all at once and immediately. However, it allows us to cover this deficit, the 240 million a year, and gradually release certain measures that were taken during the crisis, by reducing the increase in expenditure compared to the expenditure. This applies to all, both public servants, both municipalities and social transfers and so on. So I'm not talking about any euphoria. Now, perhaps I would respond to some of the things that have already been said during the debate today. One summary balance of the situation was that, for the first time in history, the Court of Auditors refused to issue an opinion. I don't think that's true of my behavior. I was alone on this committee when we discussed this report. The representative of the Court of Auditors made it clear that this rejection was already in the past years. He pointed out that for several years this balance sheet was also an integral part of the final account, that this balance sheet had begun to be prepared, since we had no balance sheet in the past. And he was pleased that we are in this situation right now and that we are going to upgrade this right now and that we are going to complement it because it is a truly comprehensive balance drawn up by all budget consumers. Data aren't incorrect, but they're flawed. And in 2014, when the Court of Auditors issued this same opinion, it did not decide on a corrective measure to require the Ministry or the Government to do so within 30, 60 and 90 days, as these possible deadlines may be issued by the Court of Auditors, but decided to require a plan of action which would show how the Government or the Ministry would begin to address these deficiencies, which would not allow it to revise this opinion. And all these hands and activities outlined by the Ministry in this plan have been assessed by the Court of Auditors as satisfactory corrective action. And he told the Court of Auditors at this session of the Commission for the supervision of public finances that we are dealing with shortcomings, imperfections that have been present for decades and that, I have quoted them, and that these deadlines proposed by the Ministry in view of the full complexity of this work are now satisfactory. Each year, the Court of Auditors shall then assess this progress and the corrective measures carried out from 2014 onwards shall be implemented in accordance with this implementation plan submitted by the Ministry. That's one thing. Then the next one, drawing on European funds. It was expressed how bad things were, how we had done virtually nothing in these two years. Despite everything here, I would say that the country that we were in the previous financial perspective between the eight countries that had drawn on the funds before the end of the perspective, we had exhausted all the funds, we were successful. At the same time, we have prepared the entire normative basis for drawing from the new financial perspective. And as I said yesterday, this report has been dealt with by the Government and has so far been approved for €715 million in projects and programmes, which is 24% of all available resources. Of this, some more than 591 million or 20% of the contracts already signed and 37 million euros have already been paid from the state budget. Where do these payments come from? The requests are currently covered by the Slovenian budget of the EUR 90 million advance received by Slovenia, as is the case with all other countries. However, once this accreditation has been completed by the European Commission, we will also receive the first inflow from the EU treasury. As far as investments are concerned, how less investment is earmarked in the budget, and as compared to the funds from the new financial perspective, these are the funds of the European Union. If I look, yes, it is, in a global way, if we compare the implementation of 2014 with the expectations of 2017 and 2018, there are fewer investment funds in the total when we look at the EU's integral resources and also the EU funds. Why is that? The first reason, in my opinion, is that this year's financial perspective is devoted to the circus 1 billion less than in the previous financial perspective. But we still have 3.2 billion euros. And how are these funds planned in the budget now? The realisation of what the 2014 budget provides for investments from integrated resources, according to our domestic resources, 346 million. In 2017, we will spend 475 million in our investments and 511 million in 2018. It is said that these integral assets, our domestic resources, including those collected with higher revenues, are allocated each year more for investments. However, it is a fact that European funds are falling and perhaps there is also a slight rough comparison with 2014, if we know that at that time we have practically exhausted 45% of the overall financial perspective and that the greatest inflow from this title was at that time. But also in 2017 and 2018 we have planned 367 million and then in 2018 387 million from this title and together for investments of 843 million in 2017. I said a comparison earlier with 2014 when it was 1 billion 100 and I said why, in my opinion, it is not exactly the right comparison, and then in 2018 even more, a bad billion euros for investments. So now the assessment of each is whether this trend is right or wrong. I believe that the integral resources in the investment budget are increasing, and European funds are taking this path, which I have also said, in line with the lower approved common fund. I wouldn't touch myself too much right now, given the Minister's answers to the union agreements. The fact is that until the budget is in place, we know that the draft 2017 budget changes are being implemented by 1. 1. 2017, and this budget, which we are discussing today, with 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Until then, an agreement should be concluded in this area. I would like that, I hope that this agreement will come to light, given that, last night, when I accompanied the Committee on Internal Affairs, I have heard that this gap is not so great that it would not be possible to agree, so I leave it to the Minister and the Government, who, as negotiators, know best how and what. Then again on this supplementary draft budget, which is the subject today. The government has slightly changed the initial budget that has been submitted to us and we have also considered it on the Committee on Finance first. In this supplementary draft budget, which is of the view to emphasise, it is that, from that preliminary or first reading of the budget, the amendments that have been taken into account have been summarised in this supplementary draft budget, which relate to the increase in funding at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and what was related to sport infrastructure. In this supplementary draft budget, the funds are increased by EUR 2 million and will be allocated to calls for projects to renovate sports facilities. This will also reduce the burden on local communities for these investments. Several amendments of the opposition have gone this way, and I support this change. In addition, the Republic of Slovenia’s Directorate for Protection and Rescue in the supplementary draft budget should be provided with additional funds of EUR 2 million. So much for that. Now, my colleague Bratušek came in, and I was one of those two Members who responded to her claim yesterday, which I quoted as saying that at the time of her government there was 300 million euros more, and I will not argue about it, I will just say that I responded to her claim when she told her what her government had done, and then I told her what the government had done and I apologize for that statement, because no government had given the pensioners anything, and the pensioners were all but probably even more deserving of it. I'm done with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u78	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask whether the opinion of the European Commission is already available to us. We've heard here that at one hour and a few minutes he's scheduled to come to the Ministry of Finance. It probably doesn't take two hours from the Ministry of Finance to get it to us, because after all, I think it's an important document. In any case, the European Commission's decision day coincides with the adoption of the budget, but now, if it coincides, I think it is right to deliver it to us. I'm asking the President if you can help me get this opinion. Now is not much time to discuss. I think it would be right that before the end of this debate this opinion, which is not encouraging – I think that we are all united in this regard, that this opinion delivered by the European Commission is bad for the country and that Slovenia is returning to the path of non-creditability. That's the first one. Second. My colleague Urška Ban spoke about some of the integral investment funds and European investment funds and I am interested in asking her nicely or the President to tell me where this is from the state budget. Or do coalition Members again have some additional documents that I unfortunately do not have access to. There is only one item in the budget, and these are investments. However, if coalition Members have any additions, I ask that we all receive them. And regardless, you know, economic activity does not distinguish between integral and European resources. Investments are investments, and this is the only thing driving economic growth here home, besides most exports that are not so much dependent on the country as on external factors. The President, please, I know that you do not like procedural matters too much, so I will now ask for the opinion of the European Commission once again and ask for the information available to our colleague Urska Ban that the rest of us, I will say, enlighten and see whether this is true or not. One is explanation, one is speaking, the other is numbers. And what I have at my disposal is just total investment funds. So I'm asking you to help me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u80	First the replica, Mrs. Urska Ban, to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u81	However, I had the information that was made available to the Commission on Public Finance Supervision on the Committees, and also here in the National Assembly yesterday by the distinguished Minister, Mrs Matej Vraničar Erman, and these are the data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u82	Then two more clarifications were needed, at least as far as I'm concerned, although it wasn't procedural this time, I'll tell you. Firstly, the Minister identified herself before the report, explaining the Ministry's position on the report. As such, the report is available in English and is obtained from the Internet, at least I have such a report ahead of me right now. Now, if you ask for this second, I will just try to make sure that every one of you will come to this meeting today, but I suppose if you can get it online, to give it, that this is a generally accessible report and the Minister has responded to it, and this has been done so far, as she promised to respond, I think it was at 2400 and 30 minutes, something like that, because then she also had a public statement at that time. That's what I know, what else I don't dare explain to myself about the budget itself. I'm asking at this point, someone else wants a debate. It's a debate or it's a good one. [[…]] The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you. Yes, President, if there's practice in the National Assembly to go online, I will. I'm gonna take my time, and I'm gonna go to the computer, because it's hard to read a document this important on this little phone. So I'm gonna do it. But as for the data you provide, now it's a new practice to believe something they say and then it's the truth. Maybe it wouldn't be bad to provide us with information. Apparently there are, obviously there are. I can tell you that they exist only at the Ministry of Finance. When we say there's so much less to invest, you defend yourself, yes, yes, but we don't have that information. [[…]] So in the future, perhaps even today, it would be right to provide us with these numbers that you have at your disposal and not to give us anything, I will say, we believe everything that is said in the National Assembly. However, the fact is that there is actually less money for investments than there was in 2014. That's why the result is worse. That's a fact. Actually, we're saying the same thing, but you're a little more defensive about why. The fact that money for investments is less and the fact that money for investments is less is less is lower economic growth, in fact, we all agree. And yes, pension funds are not provided by any government. I agree, so I'm glad that colleague Urska Ban also said that. Once again, the fact is that this government can, and is doing so, give 300 million euros less for pensions. This is a fact and therefore you can simply reduce the budget deficit and therefore the European Commission tells you that you have not actually made any structural effort, even making the situation worse in the budget. That is the result, we have been telling you this for a month, but today it is the European Commission's point of view. Far from being happy with this opinion alone, I would be much more pleased if Slovenia remained on the right path, that direction would still be upwards, but look at its opinions a few years ago, so the situation began to deteriorate. The next step will be to overcome macroeconomic imbalances. That's the next step of what you got on the table today. You can convince us, you can convince the Slovenian public, but those who should, and with such documents, you will not convince us, and today's debate will not make much difference, and I agree with that. Once again, the path you've chosen, the path you've drawn, is far from the right. But the saddest thing about it is that you've got an excellent economic situation in your hands, and you've managed to make a perfect mess in two years. Your doctors are texting you and you don't know how to proceed. Public servants, okay, will continue to talk to you under the coalition's compulsion yesterday to force the government back at the negotiating table. With the municipalities you have an open front, with us in the National Assembly you can't find a common language about the fiscal world. I don't know how anyone can say you can and can do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u84	I will still comment on that pure beginning – I will make sure that this report comes to every Member, because of course it is not binding, it will be in English, because it is and we will not translate it now. For those of you who understand these things, it's no problem. I'm asking at this point, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you for your words, President, colleagues from the Government, fellow Member and Members. Regrettably, instead of talking substantively today about what the budget is, what it is, where there is nothing else to fix, even though we know that it is impossible to correct now, the proposal is what it is. The opposition's amendments are not and will not be supported. I often say that if we really wanted some creative cooperation from all Members, both coalitions and oppositions, or if we wanted creative cooperation and that Members have a role to play and we are not just an extension of the government's time frame, then every government would send a budget that would have 90 million euros in reserves and each Member would have its million that could be transferred with the amendment to wherever it wants to go. Some countries have it, it's constructive. The first government of Janez Janša also acted in such a way that opposition Members were also heard. As a result, budgets without a vote were also adopted in those governments. Even in the previous government led by Alenka Bratušek, I spoke with some Members, and one of the Members told me, for good reason, we have also released some opposition amendment. In short, at least from the outside, it is formally seen that we are ready to cooperate between the coalition and the opposition. Unfortunately, the government of Mira Cerar behaves arrogantly and vehemently, concerning the adoption of laws and other acts in the National Assembly. The opposition proposals are largely rejected. In the case of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I don't know if you've confirmed five of our amendments in this mandate and only one of our amendments in the law. But that's what cooperation is, and that's why it's the result, because you don't leave the opposition behind. Not only in laws, but also in budgets, the situation in the country is as it is. Because where one thinks he knows everything, something soon reflects, and that's not the case. What the European Commission has said is a clear signal. Now we're waiting for a concrete response, and I'm back to square one. Instead of discussing where the budget is adequate and where it is not adequate, we now see that the budgets drawn up by the Government are not appropriate, even more, we cannot speak with credibility, because we do not know what it will be like at the end of the budget. Nor do I understand how you could set such a agenda for the College to first consider budgets, and only then is the agenda item, where consideration of a law that has an important impact on budgets. By then, it had been known that everything would be a mess, since then it was known that there would be no agreement with the unions and that today the situation was as it was. It is difficult to add anything else as we said yesterday, it is practically identical budgets. But with the 2018 budget, it is so much more pronounced that it does not hold what the coalition repeats in this National Assembly at this budget. If I stop only in the area of the Ministry of Infrastructure. On several occasions I have had a question sent to the Minister, and I have heard several times his answer that he has somehow divided the work and the interventions being carried out on the road into three sets. The first set is what is currently open, let's say that at least those essential maintenance works are done, that we have roads in a state that does not endanger people's lives and health. This would take 150 million euros. Neither in the 2017 budget nor in the 2018 budget will they receive them. For the second set, he said that it would take about 250 million euros to complete all the projects currently under way. And for the third set, he said that it would take 350 million euros to start with some concrete, including new stories, with new projects that our country and the people who live here need. Instead of at least the basic €150 million to flip those holes, he'll get a good 138. In short, there is no trace of this border, except that we can complete all these buildings that are currently open. One of my findings is that we keep talking about these deficit jobs, we talk about where the opportunities are, but despite the fact that the money at the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs is increasing, you are reducing spending on state and human resources scholarships. In short, it's about saying something again, doing something different, and that's the exclusive policy that's not going to produce results. I was talking about the working population yesterday. The indicators are still standing, instead of approaching the number 880 000 working residents, as we had in 2007-2008, we are turning between 790 and 800 000. And instead of going into some concrete action, we're once again giving money for some employment incentives, enough to put out those most critical cases, to get young people to get their first job under some programs, to be employed for one year, to be employed for two years, to work for what they didn't school for, and then there's going to be a problem again. This is artificially reducing unemployment and such measures do not produce long-term fruit. But this government doesn't work for a long time, it doesn't look for a long time, it doesn't look for two years. However, despite the fact that the examples in the budget, as I said yesterday, are a good example of the Slovenian Army, where it is written in the budget with concrete figures, that in the case of equipment and major updates in 2017 and 2018 you plan exactly EUR 0 and then in the next three years 50 million a year, the second year 100 million and the third year 150 million euros. What is the difference between, say, 2017 and 2018 not being able to get the euro, in 2019 or 2020, and just 100 million euros will go up from the sky? In short, once again some unrealistic things and especially obvious, this is what the lady said yesterday, the NRP are the ones where you should see some content, but we do not see this content under this government, but you can look at anything. Take a look at important local infrastructure and other projects, mainly from the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Infrastructure. All projects are moving from 2019 to 2020, as well as those projects that are estimated at EUR 500 000 and which would contribute a great deal to citizens' satisfaction, to investing in their security, which is certainly infrastructure at local level, is being postponed to 2019 or even later. In short, just so we don't have to, that's what the ruling coalition says to you to do nothing, to do nothing. Such a budget is adopted, we have washed our hands, the government has prepared such a budget. But when the government doesn't prepare things the way it should, but it does say what we saw yesterday, we didn't make a deal, it's up to the Members to take responsibility and decide. It wasn't so much yesterday as to take on some responsibility and keep looking, and I'm interested in what's going to happen tonight, or what's going to happen in the vote, when there's something that you don't even know what you're confirming. We have colleagues here who are in Parliament two, three, four, five mandates, and they have said that there has not been such a situation. Such a situation has not yet been that the budget would depend on the law which, for the first time, is dealt with by the budget if I look at the agenda, and for the second time that we would not have this law at all, because it was voted yesterday that it is not suitable for further consideration. Look, no congregation does that. Not the smallest, which I think is Hodoš, not the largest Municipality of Ljubljana. No congregation does that. You know why? Because that's where the mayor directly corresponds to citizens and citizens. Because he always has to go to the polls for a new term, and that's where he gets out. Here's the thing. It's blurry. You're lucky to have the media on your side. I don't know if this would happen in some Germany, in Italy, in France, all the news, all the newspapers, all the evening reports full of it. Nor was Parliament concluded last night when the budget is being considered. Not a word about it was in the media. Not a word about it was in the media. It's a total mess. We were sent four times to a large hall in Tomšič, because neither the communication between the President of the National Assembly nor the Vice-Presidents works because we do not know what it means 15 minutes after the end of the end point. Nor does this work in this House anymore. And if this is how Parliament works, it is logical for the Government to operate as well. Because he has confirmed for Parliament this government, which we now have. Such budgets and this situation are not what we are saying, which is what the European Union has told you today, and the European Commission, and then the consequences of such decisions. I don't know how I would vote if I didn't have anything to vote on. We have now heard the voice of the European Union, and I believe that we will be in serious trouble, especially you, the ruling coalition, when it comes to the vote in the evening or probably tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u86	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you. Before concluding the general part of the debate, we are obviously approaching a specific part of the debate, and I would also like to make an assessment of the United Left, the United Left's substantive assessment of how we feel about this budget. If I take the opinion of the European Commission as a starting point. We can agree with, say, some framework of the European Commission's communication, which says the budget is poorly prepared. However, we cannot agree with the call implied in this message, as this calls for more savings. I'll explain it briefly. The budget is poorly prepared because it is not programmed, as promised by the coalition or as you have committed yourself in the coalition contract, that the budgets from now on should be programmed to record some clear visions, some clear future developments, some clear emphasis on what would improve the well-being of the people of this country. This is not in this budget. This budget is largely accounting, according to some copy-paste of past budgets. And when it's accounting, it's easy to copy-paste transfer within the next two years the mistakes of the previous governments. The biggest errors of these governments are that budgets have been designed according to the neoliberal framework. This means: low income mainly by capital, wealth and high income at income level, and in return cuts on the expenditure side mainly in social, welfare, development. This remains or worse in this budget, even deepens. In the United Left for three months, we have been reminding us of the biggest political error that this government has made in the formulation of this budget, and this is that ten percent of the best paid in this country, including everyone in this room, has given us an 80 million-dollar income gift. On the other hand, we now have this complication with the unions, where you are actually discussing whether or not the salaries of the public servants will be 30 million or not. This is a little more than a third of this amount, which, with such magnitude and with such insufferable ease on the income side, you have renounced the state treasury and donated it to 10 percent of the best paid in this country. In short, if this budget gift were not available, there would now be no complication with the unions, there would be no difficulty in adopting the Law on the salaries of public servants and we would not have everything we have experienced, seen and heard in this house in the last two days. So the original sin of this budget is that it deepens its neoliberal logic on the revenue side. It deepens it where it gives the best paid in this country an additional 80 million euros. On the other hand, despite the two-year economic growth and the relatively favourable forecasts for the future, we still know about the freezing of pension coordination, the freezing of the coordination of social transfers, such as unemployment benefits, parental compensation, children's documents, state scholarships and everyone else. We're staying here at really miserable levels. When we talk about the parental compensation that two parents receive, which is not so common in my generation, we are talking about the fights of 252 euros that they receive to raise their children. This kind of money cannot survive in Slovenia, and it is not surprising that people of my generation are becoming increasingly difficult to decide whether or not to have children and families at all. Then we have unemployment benefits here, once again the lowest compensation remains on the meagre 350 euros gross, which is 270 euros net. You can't live with that either. It is outrageous that the Government does not see and hear these people, it is said from young parents, to unemployed, to poor pensioners – a guaranteed pension in the country after 40 years of working for a full worker is a struggle of €444 – and all these people the government simply does not hear when this budget is drawn up. On the other hand, it is not a problem to continue the neoliberal policy of low taxes on capital and property, even more, even to give to those with the highest revenue of budgetary gifts in, as I have already mentioned, 80 million dollars. Under the line, this is our judgment of this budget in the United Left. The problem is that it has not been used on the revenue side that we have almost the lowest capital taxes in Europe, the effective taxation of capital is 11.6%, which makes us purely a tail of Croatia and Estonia. Then we have a problem with property taxation, which has fallen from a socially unjust proposal for a real estate tax, this country does not collect any euro in the integrated budget. From the property tax we have barons – they were discovered a while ago – who have 500 and more properties in this country, and they do not pay the real estate tax on it. The State does not have any mechanism to tax those people who own enormous amounts of property, land and other property in order to help those who need help, it is said, pensioners, unemployed, young parents, people in housing distress. It's not for all this money because you're still running a permissive policy on the revenue side. That is why, because I said that I would start with the opinion of the European Commission, I would simply respond to this opinion. We do not need what the European Commission requires, this is even more cuts on the expenditure side. No, no, no. We have to patch up the budget on the revenue side, there are actual reserves. You can't tighten the belt any longer for those who have less than 300 euros and less per month, but you can take those who have 500 properties and more to own, but they're not taxed. And that should be the priority of this government, but where we are. Just for a little while, that's our judgment. We would absolutely give priority to the level of income in order to get the money to solve social problems, to create prosperity and to manage development projects, but this government has not done so, so you cannot expect the support of the United Left to this budget. So much for the beginning, but the rest for the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u88	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Because I said a lot of what I wanted to say about the budget yesterday, but I might want to touch on the last debate a little bit. The fact is that the budgets for 2017 and 2018 point to the continuation of a policy that is unfriendly to the Slovenian economy, to increase the taxation of work in order to further, say, squeeze those who create more, those who create added value. Bureaucratic barriers are growing day by day. However, I would like to touch on a particularly important area, which in the last two days has not literally been discussed, even though we are discussing budgets and financial matters. This is a problem for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who work in Austria. As you all probably know, a few weeks ago we also got some calculations showing how our legislation discriminates against all Slovenes and Slovenes who have somehow looked for a job in neighbouring Austria. I do not agree that such legislation exists. The fact is that these citizens and citizens should be grateful that they prefer to work in Austria rather than sit at home on a chair and live on social support and various subsidies, and bring money to Slovenia, which is, of course, growing indirectly also the Slovenian budget, as they pay taxes in Slovenia. And what has already been said several times in the National Assembly suggests that migrant workers, i.e. the Migrant Workers' Union, which was established a few months ago, will continue to be a dairy cow for possible falsified projects, for projects that have an annex to the annex and could still list, perhaps also to increase employment in the state administration, but would not do so. All of this shows that in Slovenia, of course, we also have an extremely unfavourable economic and business environment. More and more prospective, highly educated young people are going for bread abroad. And it may be a little tragic, but how do we prevent young people from going abroad with their stomachs behind their bread? Will you maybe build a wall? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u90	I'm asking, is there any other interest in the debate? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will be held within a half-hour period following the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the Special Part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Me? Would you like to discuss it? [[advertising from the hall]] The amendments will be special. No one wants to discuss the specific part of the supplementary draft budget, so I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11 November. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to the budget user 1611 of the Ministry of Finance and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Financial Alignment to municipalities and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for development cooperation and international assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you for saying that again. As I said in the general debate, in the United Left we have tried to correct at least part of the mistakes that are in this budget. The first is that Slovenia is essentially under-applying for development cooperation and international assistance, and significantly too much for military operations abroad. We would therefore transfer a million euros to the item on development cooperation and international assistance. Slovenia has committed itself years ago to helping developing countries or developing countries allocate 0.33% of what is expected to be done by all developed countries in Europe and, in fact, only 0.15% of GDP. We have pointed out this to the Government, which replied that it estimates that the annual contribution of the Republic of Slovenia to the 2018 draft budget is adequately planned for this purpose and does not require any additional allocation of funds. We can't agree with that. After all, this is not just our international commitment. This is our moral bond, if you will, because we are living in a time when the world around us is becoming increasingly unstable. I can't imagine how you think we will survive in this world by intensifying military intervention, instead of contributing to peace and stability in the regions that are close to us, especially in a peaceful way, that is by investing money for the development of these regions. In this sense, I call for you to support our amendment, to redistribute for our budget a modest sum, but at a symbolic level important, one million euros for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u92	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1914 of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Management, Education and Supply of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Operational Action and Preparedness of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Infrastructure and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members, Members, all present, welcome! The Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology refers to one of the problems of border areas, namely the Haloza area. All parliamentary parties are committed to giving this area some special emphasis, that it is an area with great potential and is actually deprived. A working group was established by the Government. A set of measures has been made, but unfortunately it has not yet come to life. And we just don't see any other option than to use some special financial means for this part. This is why we also propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we spend €5 million in the 2018 budget for the development of the Haloz area. I believe that, given that all the parliamentary parties are committed to the fact that this is a real area that deserves some development that has great potential, I believe that you are aware that these measures, not least of all preparations, I believe that many need some special financial support and I really call on you to fulfil this commitment that you made on the 2015 Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Economy, and let us give this area one special financial support and actually make it possible to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u94	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme of the War of Cemetery and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am giving a sub-programme of professional tasks and advice in agriculture and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Management of Agricultural Lands and the two amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you, President, for your word. Allow me to begin, at the end of August of this year, we had members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the framework of the Gornja Radgona fair. The debate and the agreement of all members in previous discussions, which are also crucial in that summer time, was the issue of irrigation, land-book operations, and we know that we are also talking about the issue of commotions and meliorations. There were over sixty distinguished guests at that meeting, along with the Members and people from the Ministry, who are a normal part of a meeting. There was a huge debate. Allow me first to read the decision, which we unanimously endorsed by all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I quote: "The Committee proposes to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to provide more financial resources for the area of land irrigation regulation in future budget documents." Since the budget for 2017 does not implement this, we have tabled an amendment for 2017. The coalition is quiet. We have also made an amendment to the 2018 budget and it is clear that there will also be a coalition against what we have unanimously adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. I know that this is a voice in the desert and that this coalition has committed itself to probably for the first time in the history of the National Assembly in discussing and considering and adopting budgetary documents will not accept any opposition amendment. We had good practice. I sat here myself as a professional associate there in the background, or here in these benches, and no matter who the government was, the first Yansheva, the second Yansheva, Pahoreva, the Brotherhood Government, has always accepted at least one amendment by the opposition. For 2017 and 2018, the most stubborn government will be in history, let us let it be that you do not even know how to draw up a budget that is inconsistent with the social partners, not even within the coalition, not in line with the laws you are preparing, that you do not have the will to adopt or support such an amendment, which is universal. At that meeting of the Committee in Gornja Radgona, people from regional development agencies from various agricultural and environmental institutions stressed the damage done because we do not have regulated agricultural operations. In particular, irrigation has emerged as a key moment. One went further, a problem of irrigation that should be established in Slovenia. And here there could be a coalition or government, if you want, so smart, mature and would say, okay, one or two such amendments will be accepted, and then, depending on the needs throughout Slovenia, we will make sure that these funds reach the right, so-called people, our mayors, our regional development agencies. But no, you're up against it. And I warn you, this is doing damage in the area of agriculture, in the field of the environment, in the field of, if you want, energy. Here I touch the Lower Posavje, because with the construction of the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava, it is probably the last chance to settle the problem of irrigation in Posavje, which, according to many studies, is a top-notch opportunity, irrigation is one of those agricultural niche, but with such arrogant action by the government, the minister of the Jewish and, finally, the members of the coalition of this National Assembly also deserve your attention, let alone your approval. In short, the coalition that talks so much about cooperation in this budget shows that it cannot cooperate with anyone, not with interested associations, even with the opposition at least, and what is most absurd, not with the so-called left position nor with the right position. You live in your self-sufficient world, which will soon be over, but those who remain in the next term in Parliament will have an even more difficult task of remedying the bad decisions of this government. This amendment is an opportunity to make a local problem and make some good gesture to the opposition, but to give some encouragement to all those people in the field of environment and agriculture that you kill on the other hand with legal materials. A brief opportunity to give Slovenian agriculture a positive note. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u96	Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The second amendment to the same budgetary user, namely the Management of Agricultural Lands, relates to the area along the Rogatnica River in the municipality of Podlodhnnik. Let me remind you, the Ministry of Agriculture has received €1.6 million at the expense of reselling agricultural land for the construction of the completion of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway. However, since the Rogatnica stream is located in this area, which is located in a number of agricultural lands, and therefore these lands would urgently need to be regulated in order to obtain adequate protection, we propose that part of these funds be allocated to the regulation of these agricultural land. We are not talking about the total amount of EUR 1.6 million here, but about half of that amount. One part, 500 thousand, we have proposed for 2017, and the second part, 300 thousand, is proposed for 2018. Coalition Members, I really appeal to you to support this amendment. Finally, it would be right to use these funds to protect agricultural land and to remain in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u98	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the six amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Chairman. On the one hand, I would really like to ask a question, I would say, the effort that we Members have with our expertise and with serious consideration, what is what is really necessary in Slovenia on the highway and regional road coast, because we know that the budget is not closed, the circus is open 120 million. I'm wondering where the government will take it. In my opinion, it will take it where it is least painful, either on investments or on 2TKK, where it has already deposited 200 million to build a second track. We are dealing here with reallocation and with the care, budget and valuation of the value of up to thousands of euros, which section is more important and which section is more necessary to solve a regional problem. In particular, let me go to our proposals, which we have prepared with professional selection as the most necessary to qualify as additional amendments to increase investment maintenance and construction of state roads, the 14 million-euro amendment and 50,000-euro amendment. There are 26 measures that have been carefully selected, in the whole of Slovenia, and let me list only the most important ones that are in this part. Let me also say that the main or most of the projects are already in the planning of the directorate itself, and it is also the continuation of the projects that are already under way, or of those that will start in 2017. Of course, we are now talking about 2018. Project Dole–Ponikva–Dolga Gora amounting to EUR 600 000, then the continuation of this project further to Loč amounting to EUR 500 000, the rehabilitation of the beach in Solčava amounting to EUR 500 000, the Luča bypass of EUR 200 000, the organisation of cycling routes in the Savina region of EUR 300 000, both bridges over Hudina in Celje amounting to EUR 350 000, then the necessary renewal of the regional road Polzel–Velje amounting to a million and a half. We know that we have also proposed for 2017 one and a half million, because at the construction of the 3 development axis this will be a so-called mandatory road which will be extremely burdensome, and of course this section needs to prepare for this increased burden, so that the regulation is more than necessary. Then there is the arrangement of the crossings in the mourny bypass, here are the funds in the second part, the continuation of 2016 and 2017, then the reconstruction of the Mozire–Zekovec section, then the Vosek–Jurovski Dol–Lenart regional road of 100 million, since it is a section of 7.5 kilometers, then the new necessary Hotemaže–Britof facility of 3 million and for the Dvor project, the road section of the Court in the municipality of Žuzemberk of 500 000 euros. In short, this is the main project of 26 of the priority projects selected. In addition, it is an additional amendment of 2 million 690 thousand, a million for the road in Kidrič, then 540 thousand for the arrangement of bus stations and cycling routes from the Borl section to the border crossing in the Cirklane municipality, then 550 thousand for the bridge over Drava near Borl and 600 thousand for the construction of the sidewalk and the expansion of the bridge across the Zajz River and lighting arrangements in the Zavrč municipality. These projects are professionally selected, we propose to add them to the 2018 plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u100	Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. My fellow Member has already highlighted some very important infrastructure projects, but I might like to give some additional explanations on the edge and the environment from which I come from, so I really know the problem they are facing. First of all is Kidrichev's carousel. The Kidričevo Obrovnica is a project that is, of course, installed, and we expect that in the shortest possible time, of course, this project will also be realized, but we would like to see the construction of this carousel really accelerated, so we want to see a million funds earmarked for the coming years already in 2018. Why? It is not only important for the congregation but is also more important. This is one of the few municipalities that has many, for that matter, I will say, a rather endangered area of important jobs. There are two major companies here, and trucks drive around these roads every day. Of course, we would do a lot for both the municipality and, finally, all those who drive to these companies for all suppliers of these companies, and it is absolutely necessary. The arrangement of bus stations and cycling routes along the Borl-May State Road in the Cirkulane municipality is also important. Why? See, this project was sent to the Infrastructure Directive in 2011. The project review was carried out in 2012. But from then on, it's been four years, nothing's happened. So, really, here's the project ready, it's in direct. All it takes is to actually start doing it. But it's €540 thousand. The next project is a bridge across the Drava River from Borl. This project was already in the implementation phase in 2009. Unfortunately, the contractor then went bankrupt and the project simply stopped. This road and this bridge are not only important for the citizens of nearby municipalities, but ultimately should be important and strategic for the whole of Slovenia, leading towards the border crossing of Zavrè, which applies to the international border crossing. We are talking about the amount of 550 000 euros in 2018. 600 000 euros for Zavrč Municipality, namely the construction of a sidewalk, expansion of the bridge across the Zajz River and lighting arrangements. The full documentation was submitted to the Directorate in 2013. Of this, three years have passed, the project has not yet been put into the programme, so I invite you to do so now and in fact in 2018 we will devote 600 000 euros to this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u102	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you. For this item Investment maintenance and construction of state roads goes to summa summarum for all wishes, and in particular for urgent needs for an amount of 20 million euros. You have an open public sector account of 23 million, but you are vuhmepisian, and here you are rejecting 20 million euros for 35 urgently needed measures, which are just waiting for a blessing if you want, these governments and these coalitions. It is not a matter of some whim of individual mayors or Members of Parliament, it is an urgently needed project, which most have had a beard for a long time. For at least 3, 4 years, individual projects have a long beard when they are also wanted from these documentation archives to a practical level. It is interesting when I sometimes read these local media in particular, I see how the coalition members promise the mayors, especially the residents and residents: "We will stand for this road and this road to be built." Dear Members of the Coalition, see which roads are to be built or restored. After most of these roads, you drive and you in your local communities promise something will work out. Today, when you have a unique opportunity, you are silent and you will vote against it. And in a day or a month or a year from now, at the latest, when the elections are held, you will again promise what you will do. Realizing that people are most susceptible to two things, water and roads. And in this amendment, we could really show for the whole of Slovenia that you want to provide safe transport infrastructure for the population. The last warning from the European transport safety institutions is catastrophic. We are almost to the last in terms of road safety. And this is about those projects that are urgently needed for renovations. It makes me sick to list all those projects that are not part of the new buildings and where certain Members, at least I can see here, amuse themselves because they come from Ljubljana, but some know what we are talking about, some projects are deadly. I have repeatedly asked the competent Minister for Infrastructure how many additional deaths will be required on individual sections to sober up. Just look at the examples of these 35 projects where you drive and how you sometimes almost likely close your eyes when you hope that a bigger truck will not come across. And since colleague Matjaž Han has just arrived in the hall, I, my colleague Matjaž, as one of these sections is also a section where you drive yourself home, I hope to support this project, because you know how important the road connection between Sevnica and Radčec is, and you know how vital it is to restore it. So if you all take half a minute to look at what projects they are, you can show here not only how you want to be liked by the opposition and accept one of their amendments, but above all what you promise your citizens or your citizens, you can do here. Only 20 million and 35 urgently needed projects waiting for your green light. But the silence shows they'll get the red light. In the coming months, you probably have new and new promises about how you will solve security, how you will build, how you are invested in certain initiatives, but behind all these beautiful words and pianist inserts, your anti-key pressure is hidden. The Slovenian public knows where you're going, where you're going and where you're going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u104	More debate? Is he any more? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. With the amendments proposed by Members of our Group, they take from non-investment items and move funds to investment items. In this particular case, certain traffic or road sections are involved. It is very difficult for me to listen when I do not know which time that nothing can be changed in this budget, that it is just that and nothing else. Our opinion or position on this budget is the same as that of the European Commission, that is to say, the budget is poor. And if you want anything in this budget to move and something concrete is to be done, then it is probably necessary to support these amendments that we have put in place for this direction. One group of amendments has been tabled here. They apply to the section of the road or to the road between Škofljica and the border crossing of Petrina. It is a road towards the southern border, it is the shortest link between Ljubljana and the sea, and there is huge traffic on this road now and in the summer. It is likely that the structure is now slightly larger in favour of freight transport, and there is also an enormous amount of transit traffic in the summer. This road is problematic on several sections. First of all, there are troublesome suburbs of three larger settlements. That's what you're saying. It's about the Fisherman. It's about the Huts. It's about the Great Lashes. If these bonds do not begin to be constructed, this means a permanent problem in terms of flow, in terms of safety, from the point of view of crossing children across the main intersection. Because there's an extremely large number of school-bound children crossing these intersections. Second, some sections remained unfinished on this road. In Ribnica, part of the main road between Inles and one intersection, approximately 600 meters long, has been unfinished for several years. Everything after this section and everything before this section, except a few hundred meters in this central section, has been restored. And the most normal thing is that the road ends. After five, six years of construction operations from this section, it is likely that this should be regulated. It was also opened between Ribnica and the village of Grič, where there are no suitable safety elements of the road, there is no sidewalk, because there was no bus station on this section. Users of these bus stations are mainly children, school-bound children, these things should be completed. Just because there's no money, we can figure out that there's enough of it on the road. If you have been able to provide EUR 2TKK 200 million and there are two or three employees and manage such assets and you do not know what will come of this and when, you can put money on these projects and you can also start working sections here. The projects are ready. Since, for all the amendments that we have proposed, the Government has written in reply that these amendments are technically feasible, which means that there is concrete documentation that property matters are regulated, that is to say they are not irregular redemptions and so on. The explanation in these headings is the same as last year's explanations. And last year it was all workable. But obviously, the Ministry of Finance is the one who insists or insists that all items are untouchable proposed by the Ministry in this budgetary procedure. I don't think so. No budget has yet been so perfect that nothing can be improved, no budget of any government in any country in the world. It is only with this government of Mira Cerar that we experience that everything that is perfectly done is untouchable. At the same time, we see that none of the things you're proposing are working and not following some normal procedure, but just the violence of those who are in charge. We have proposed two additional amendments to those that are technically feasible, namely an amendment that would finally regulate the missing part of the asphalt to the Kren or the Kočevska Rog murder site. There is still about three or four kilometers of roads left to pave. That's where the parking lot needs to be arranged. And there's no valid reason why the path to this murder is not settled. There is a way of memory, there is a cross path, there is a romance such and different and those which are mass and individual and so on. And there is no reason, if you have arranged on the other side of the road to Base 20, from below the tour to Base 20, this country can also do so without a problem to this murder site. The items from which it is taken are not such that this cannot be done. The second section we have proposed is also the arrangement of the road to the murder site of the Huda Cave. This has also become for many of our citizens, as well as other places of memory, for the people who were killed there. And there's absolutely no reason for people to have access to this crime scene. If we gave this respect, respect for these murdered and their relatives, we would have done so a long time ago. But now that these things have started to open, there is no reason why access is not arranged, properly marked and so on and so forth. These two proposals are also such, stated the government that they are feasible. It only says, as with others, that it is supposed to be taken from the wrong items, it is said from some budgetary users. This is also possible because other budget users are not ideally planned. If this government had the ideal planning, then today we would be taking the final account for 2017. You heard right, the final invoice for 2017. The government behaves exactly as it accepts the final invoice for 2017 and for 2018. Finally, she will vote in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget so that the entire budget can be redistributed by the decisions of the Government. You heard right, redistribute. Now he claims that nothing can be accepted, because something is not going to happen to her. Secondly, I must say that, in fact, I am very disappointed that the government has taken up a debate with Members, which is a matter of guiding the 2018 budget and discussing the amendments, so little time. One-third of the time of the Group of Members. Since that third of the time of the Group of Members, half of the time unused is closed. So, Mr President, it probably doesn't make sense to just protocolly invite the Government to a meeting of the National Assembly, that state officials and officials are changing here, that no one is answering, not in the roads, not in the waters, not in agricultural matters, everyone is just looking at some papers, looking at computers and so on. This is irresponsible, and this is scandalous. If there is no argument on the proposals we are proposing to the amendments we are proposing, even no state official dares to respond to the Government's position or otherwise comment, there is a scandal. Just look at how this session is going today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u106	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2550 – the Ministry of Environment and Space and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! In this package we have submitted two amendments which both increase water management items. One in the area of regular maintenance and the other in the area of disaster management. It is an area that has been somehow nourished for a long time in Slovenia. This is also acknowledged by the Ministry with its services, not only the Ministry, but also by all other services dealing with watercourses. Finally, an open letter was also sent to the Government and to the President of the Government, where many pointed out the substantiation of this area. They noted that the flood threat in the Republic of Slovenia is increasing due to the irregular maintenance of watercourses, thus jeopardizing both people and their assets, as has been demonstrated several times in past floods. In the past, we have had quite a few meetings of the parent working body, called by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, on the topic of flood safety. There were also extraordinary or urgent meetings. And on these committees, the majority of fellow Members agreed with the actual situation in this area and also with the fact that there is insufficient funding for both regular maintenance and flood damage. In some responses, the Minister spoke about how this budget can be regulated by some dynamic business and redistribution of items. Somehow we bought this for the budget period 2016 or back then 2015, but we are now ahead of a decision on what to do in the future. On all these committees, the assertion by both the Minister and all the competent authorities and, last but not least, all members of the coalition was that this should be regulated. When we look at the budgets that we have on the table, we find that the situation is not only getting better, it is actually getting worse. At all items, both for regular maintenance of watercourses and for remediation of the effects of past floods, the funds in both budgets are shrinking, to a large extent. Thus, all water management companies that have prepared an open letter, signed by a number of mayors, agree. This is pointed out by many people in endangered areas. This is pointed out by the Administration for Protection and Rescue, the entire management sector, and this is agreed not least by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water, which is within this Ministry, which prepares the budget. If we go any further, the Government has adopted several binding documents in the past, including an action plan for flood intervention, which has been confirmed and also presented, with several measures to ensure better management of this area and to reduce this flood threat. There have been both short-term and long-term measures defined here, and let's say that the short-term measures are somehow over, because we are talking about the floods and the document of 2014 of this government, but there is a set of long-term measures where the first priority is the obligation (a) to increase funds for regular maintenance of water infrastructure and water and coastal land from the circus, at that time 2014 was between €6m and €8m per year, to at least €25m per year. This was a priority a. Now all professions, including the Ministry itself, point to the fact that €3.2 million is foreseen in these new budgets for 2017 and 2018 to maintain watercourses for the whole of Slovenia. This not only means preserving the existing situation, but rather a significant reduction from the standards that have been in force so far. The documents adopted in the Government are not, therefore, taken into account. In this document, the active implementation of construction measures against floods is also among the long-term measures, which is not feasible on the basis of the budget adopted. The increased activation of the Water Fund for the implementation of preventive flood measures is not feasible because there will be no funds. The increased mobilisation of the European Cohesion and Regional Fund funds in 2014-2020, by my conduct and questions, is nowhere to be seen in these cohesion and regional funds. More activation of the Climate Change Fund to implement preventive flood measures, we do not know where it is. As well as these measures, which have not actually been implemented. Also, when the Minister at the hearing assured that there was a situation in some budgets in 2015, 2016 and that there was little to be done there, she stated that, I quote: "This means that in the following years the problems we had this year..." was thought to be 2015 and there were also some discussions on this committee, "... must not be". Now I wonder how this will happen in the next budget period, when a flood will probably occur in autumn or in spring and the whole responsibility will be passed on to the government, because the government is ultimately the responsible authority over the ministry. If we find that the Ministry only finds that these funds are substantially insufficient and that these damage can continue to increase due to the lack of maintenance of watercourses, the failure to address the consequences, the fact remains that despite the approved programme, the Government is simply moving forward and is not in fact aware that the actual damage that will arise and will be significantly greater due to non-availability and non-availability will in fact be directly responsible for this damage. At least a few funds are allocated to this area in the proposal for our amendments. This is an amendment which allocates 5 million dollars to the programme of specific budgetary reserves under the Item to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. At least part of the damage that was done after the floods is somehow eliminated. And another amendment that talks about the funds to be allocated to the new Savinja regulation project. It is an urgent protection of urban settlements in the municipalities of Braslovča and Polzel; it is a coastal arrangement; it is also a relatively modest item — 2 million and a half. However, it is at least an attempt to provide additional funds in this area and thereby increase flood security, which, when we have discussions, you all discuss in a positive direction, but when it comes to providing means to make this happen, there is no listening. I think that it is only necessary to end this once, because complaints and claims for damages will also come slowly, as all these associations also point out, as well as the mayors and Arso, as a carrier of these projects in an open letter addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u108	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Housing activity and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you for saying that again. With this amendment for housing activity, we are earmarking €3 million more. Why? The funds earmarked for housing activities in this budget for 2017 and 2018 are record low in relation to the last years. This is unacceptable for us because we cannot agree in any way with the Government's argument that the additional resources on this programme are not important, on the contrary. My entire generation, a generation of young people, are having serious problems with access to housing. The apartment is too small, the apartments are too expensive and banks charge them substantially too much interest to rent loans for housing. If, for example, a man of my age wanted to move into an apartment, buy it, he would probably be sentenced to 20, 25, maybe even 30 years of credit at current prices and at current market conditions. So, credit slavery. This means that whole generations of younger generations are directly pushing towards borrowing credit for almost their entire active life, thus becoming debt slaves for decades. And that's where the government should intervene. But he can intervene in a number of ways. One, of course, is the regulation of rent prices; the other is the creation of a public housing fund; the third is the regulation of interest on such loans and loans themselves, i.e. the criminal workers cannot rent these loans. What we can do today in the budget is at least to provide additional housing resources. Like I said, the apartment's too small. The apartments are too low. The younger generations are victims of this – non-existent housing policy, a non-existent public institution fund. And it is unacceptable that the Government is so underestimating this issue that we have budgets where housing resources are record-breaking. In 2017 and 2018, after two years of economic growth, you obviously didn't think a little about the fact that the younger generations would at least try to secure a beautiful future. We're protesting it. We call on the parliamentary groups to support our amendment in order to provide more money for housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u110	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion a sub-programme to address the consequences of natural disasters and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and discussion on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of the Social Protection Programmes and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. In recent weeks or the last two months, we have dealt with the problem of the Osilnica Congregation, the problem of closing down their branch school. And, thank God, it looks like January 1st will somehow solve this problem. Now that we have discussed this subject on the Education Committee, we have recommended to the Government that it also look for other programmes, other social programmes, with which the municipality of Osilnica could help to keep a youth who is also there so as not to move to other places. There is no economic establishment there. The school moved, there's no kindergarten, and so on. People are about 400. Since we have discussed this, this Decision has a date of 27. September, until now the government has prepared nothing, although the deadline for the preparation of programmes for the stabilisation of the population in that municipality was 30 days. This is said to be a proposal by the Government by 30 October. I think that such ignorance of the Government is a problem for the problems of border areas, in particular on the southern border, and that is why we have also proposed an amendment in our parliamentary group concerning the training or completion of a major construction facility in Osilnica, which was deliberately built for the home of older citizens. And here we are predicting with our amendment EUR 800,000 to complete this facility. I know there are other ways to close this facility. One of the other ways had failed in recent years, so the facility remained unfinished. However, in any way, I believe that a well-respected coalition, the Government, should provide survival for this congregation. We cannot guarantee survival by getting world companies there or by opening companies of Slovenian brands, but we need to start with what the Government can do. The government, however, can invest and train a facility to implement one of the social programmes which must be financed in one way or another. And given that this is a dedicated facility, which is unfinished, we propose the cheapest solution – the completion of the facility and then the allocation of other rights related to the management, accommodation and operation of this facility. I think that there should be no one in this Chamber who would reject such a proposal and prevent the implementation of what we are proposing. The southern border, however you look at it, even at this section between Illyrian Bistrica and on the other side to the White Landscape, is problematic. There's no jobs, people are moving out. If there are no jobs and there are no people, the border is fully open and I think it must be in the national interest to support such a programme in order to ensure jobs and that such a facility also operates or works in some way. That's probably no problem. That is why I appeal to the Government and the coalition Members to keep this proposal, especially because this Government has done absolutely nothing after this decision, to support this proposal and to allow this border municipality to maintain a decent survival, including those young people who are now forced to migrate now, I do not know, within half an hour or an hour of the distance of Kočevje or even further from Ljubljana. There are no other ways, respected, effective ways, such as for the State to intervene with State investment and rights, such as concession or anything to enable this facility to function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u112	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Programmes to help the family and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to budget user 2613 – Labour Inspectorate and debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on Labour Management and Control and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you for saying that one last time. With this amendment in the United Left, we simply propose to provide an additional half million for the work of the Labour Inspectorate. We had 88 working inspectors in our country a bad decade ago, and now we have only 77. At the same time, the number of business entities has increased by almost 40,000, currently more than 200,000 business entities in Slovenia, such as businesses, parts, espies and so on. Accordingly, the number of infringements of labour law is increasing from year to year. It is said that workers do not get paid to violate their rights and 77 inspectors, according to this malnourished inspection, very difficult to do their job. It is very difficult to control such a number of business entities, it is very difficult to sanction violations of labour law and we therefore propose that if we want to remain a social and legal state that will give something to fair pay for honest work, then we need to establish better control over these infringements. That is why we would have a further half million euros in the work of the labour inspectorate. This is not a lot of money for this budget, and for the Labour Inspectorate, who only discovered more than 30,000 infringements of labour law last year, these additional finances would be huge. Above all, this would be a step towards ensuring better protection of the rights of employees, who, as I have said, are increasingly, unfortunately, violated. Of course, I urge you to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u114	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 3330 of the Ministry of Science and Sport Education and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Sport infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u115	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Sport is an important segment in Slovenia. Unfortunately, of course, when we look at the budget 2017, 2018, it is extremely unlikely for sports facilities in the Republic of Slovenia. For one year only, EUR 800,000. It is a huge municipality in Slovenia that needs sports halls, sports courts and, above all, I would like to mention infrastructure in sport. I think that the data talking about 800,000 euros is, of course, not enough for one of the larger sports halls in Slovenia. Therefore, it seems important to us in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we also respond in this area when we accept such an important document as the 2017 and 2018 budget. And, of course, here we assume that for sport, under the conditions of young people who opt for sport, they would give more. I therefore call on all Members of Parliament and Members to be aware of this that you are responding here to support this amendment and that we are not monitoring sport only when our best receive medals. Then we take the time, we look for these athletes so that we can also take pictures with them, but when it comes to developing infrastructure and conditions for Slovenian athletes and athletes, we do not have to listen. Once again, call for this amendment to support it for the benefit of Slovenian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. According to the draft budget for 2017 and also for 2018, EUR 800,000 is allocated to the area of sports infrastructure each year. But watch out! We are not talking about the budget of some medium-sized Slovenian municipality, but we are talking about the state budget. And in the SDS Group we have already proposed similar amendments to the budget debate in previous implementations. For 2016, 5 million — unheard. For 2017, 5 million — unheard. And since we know that if we gave 20 million, we would say that we are populists, we want to give 2 million more for the financial year 2018. On the other hand, we are monitoring the problems of the Sports Foundation, where the country seized a large part of them in 2013 due to the Luck Tax Act. And this year, when we have a call for a sport fund for 2017, 2018 and 2019, we can find that the entire fundraising of 2017 and 2018 is both by the country and by the Sports Foundation for Sport Infrastructure 3.5 million. Fortunately, in the SDS Group, we have made an intervention against the Minister of Education, and apparently that interpretation and the urgent meeting of the Education Committee last week on the issue of sports infrastructure has produced at least little fruit. In fear or in a desire to appease the opposition MPs, the minister gave 2 million more for the area of sports infrastructure. But respected, once again, for the entire area of sports infrastructure from the budget, from the Sports Foundation in two years 5.5 million. Those who are at least a little active in local politics, you know how much one sports hall costs, let us leave aside what a serious sports hall costs. We are not talking about the budget of any municipality, we are talking about the state budget. EUR 2 million is a supplement that will allow a number of municipalities to choose, on this basis, the possibility that, in addition to their own resources allocated to them by municipalities over 60% in the last ten years, as has been said the last time on the Education Committee, the country will also receive a positive signal that sport infrastructure in Slovenia, which is on average 38 years of age, will receive 2 million more. And I believe that this 2 million more with such ignorant behaviour of the government will not be a new building, but a reconstruction of those sports facilities that will fall to you from now on until 2018. If you just climb the ceiling in one sports hall, in one gym, if you want, at some elementary school, you will give a lot more than 2 million. Why isn't prevention better than curative? EUR 2 million, which the municipalities are looking forward to and need to see a football stadium, football field or something else happen here and there, for both top Slovenian athletes and recreationals. 2 million is a small price if we just look at what this means for the health of our citizens and citizens, not to talk about how proud we are when Slovenian anthem is responsible for such and different events of the world. 2 million for sports infrastructure is a drop in what municipalities expect. The municipalities expect €900 million in this area and the state gives them $5 million. So we know how big the needs are, and with this amendment we want to raise at least a little of this scale, that it will be more and more realized and that there will be fewer and fewer promises to be made on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! What strategy in the field of sport will we have in this trend of reducing resources in all areas, both in the area of the state budget and in the area of the economy that we know today, that absolutely no longer is able to finance any form of sport, and what orientations in the field of sport will we take in Slovenia for the future? In my opinion, it is the task of the State to, with some basic infrastructure for, I would say, a sport of wider regional or national importance that the State is the one that provides at least basic infrastructure. Up until now, those sports promoters have also been, to a greater extent, sports financiers in building the sport infrastructure of the municipality, as well as with the help of the state, of course. The municipalities are no longer capable of doing so. The municipalities will be able to finance their basic activities where there will be no place to build new infrastructure for sport. And here we ask a serious question, what and which direction in the field of sport in Slovenia we will go in the future. But when we look at the proposals, our proposal, we're talking about the amount of 2 million, we're talking about extremely small amounts, but for the government, for the ruling coalition, 2 million for sport is also a big problem. However, it is not a problem for any additional administration in the public sector to employ, I don't know, a thousand 500 new unnecessary jobs. That's no problem. Wealthy public administration, that's no problem, no matter how much it costs. This is not a problem in Slovenia. Yeah, that's how you buy election votes. Is this fair to citizens and to those who struggle every day for survival and their own bread? I don't think that's fair. I believe that our 2 million-dollar proposal for sport infrastructure is a very small part of which we can help with the sports success of Slovenian athletes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. On the one hand, we are dealing with amendments that mean some improvement in specific areas, let this be about flood safety, let this be about road sections, let this be about anything. And in all of our proposals we have proposed, we always run into a government blockade – it is not possible, the government does not support it. On the other hand, when we look at this state budget, the items that we know for sure will be absolutely nothing from them, that the money they reserve there will not be spent. For example, such a project is 2TKK, three or four employees and 200 million euros. Of this, there will be nothing in this year and next year 2018, only 200 million will disappear and this government has money and is able to reserve it with ease, with easy reserves of money to strengthen, I don't know, state property and businesses, let it be the Slovenian Forest 20 million plus 20 guarantees, no problem. It is hundreds of millions to recapitalise or increase the country's capital shares in some companies that bring total loss and so on and so on. There's no problem here. This is where the Minister of Finance will find enough reasons to make it necessary. Always enough reasons. On the other hand, when we propose something because it would improve safety, traffic safety or, in particular, safety for users in the use of sports facilities, and in these facilities, I will say, it is not only about athletes, it is mainly about sports for young people who are not professional athletes, and it is not possible for this government to block such decisions. Before, my friend said, what if the ceiling fell? What if the ceiling falls on a school grade in a sports facility? The government and the government coalition are unable to support any proposal to improve living conditions, living conditions, recreational or school conditions, because we are proposing this in the Slovenian Democratic Party. On the other hand, some come from different gray and dark zones and easily get 10 million, hundreds of millions, and nothing. We are here talking about amounts and the vast majority of these proposals are lower than what Dragos deserves in the New Ljubljana Bank for work, which we do not know is happening and from which there are no effects. That's where he gets about 700,000 euros a year. Now look at the amendments, 200 thousand, 230 thousand, 500 thousand, they're rare. And the government as the manager of such a mistake or deviation does nothing wrong. Neither the measure nor those who have been given a mandate to manage and control these companies, nor the measure itself to do anything, the money is being poured out, one is the cost of such control, and the other is the costs that we do not yet see and will show up at the next bank hole. The government does not recover anything and does not fight for anything to be recovered in these procedures, there is no confiscation of property, nothing and so on. But 200 000 euros, or 800 000 euros for the Keeper is, I'll say, one annual budget for Dragos with the NLB, but the problem for the Keeper, because it would provide there, I don't know, 50 jobs, allow the residents to stay there to build their lives, to set up a family and so on. No, that's unacceptable from the point of view of the government. Look, it can't be a government that only advocates consumption and that tolerates shit. It can't be a government like that. It is necessary to do something concrete, something real, something that people need and in which they will find their own meaning. When you go through the budgets, there are hundreds of thousands of euros in contracts at each ministry, piarian agencies, advisory companies and so on. That's not the problem. Despite the fact that you have 30,000 employees and thousands of lawyers among them probably and the pirates, and I don't know what, you also have a pear agency. It's no problem to worry about the beauty of ministers. However, there are thousands of reasons why it is impossible to build an object in concrete terms, what is up to date, what is the road. Because it's being taken by a budgetary user. You have taken all those who expect from the budget for unnecessary costs, for what you should master, not to buy knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, then I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 3340 – Ministry of Culture and Sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, Archive and Librarian Activities and Amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? No, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate in its entirety. The vote on the amendments and on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget will be held within half an hour following the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the Development Programme Plan. Anybody want to talk? No, thank you very much. So, I'm closing the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place within half an hour of the end of the 16th agenda, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We're moving to five. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear representatives of the executive branch, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is at its 45th emergency meeting, evening and not night, as has been said several times today, on 15. 11. 2016 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other public sector measures submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly shall meet at its 72nd regular session on 30 June. 9. 2016 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. No amendments to the draft law were tabled within the time limit. In a supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the proposed Minister of Public Administration said that the draft law under consideration was first considered at the 44th urgent meeting of the Committee on 10. 11. In 2016, where a declaration was made on their part that both negotiating groups of public sector trade unions had not reached agreement on measures in the field of labour costs and other measures in the public sector, a decision was therefore taken to postpone the hearing to one of the following meetings of the Committee. In the meantime, another round of negotiations with several counterproposals was held on Monday with the trade union side, the latter referring to the definition of the government up to the last counterproposal of trade unions. The government has also done so today and has informed the National Assembly. At the same time, it extended the mandate of their negotiating group to continue negotiations with the unions. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly summarized the main findings of their written opinion. In its opening remarks, she stressed that the proposed legal provisions were designed in a way that, both by content and by design, had become stable at the time of the intervention of wage and other labour costs in the public sector. They also found that, at the time the bill was tabled, the proposed solutions were not the result of agreements between the public sector collective bargaining partners. The head of the Public Sector Trade Union negotiating group stressed that the proposal is different from the related legislative proposals in the past, as its solutions are completely inconsistent with the trade union side. It hopes that MEPs and Members will follow the proposal's view that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. The fact is that last year an agreement on measures in the field of labour costs and other measures to the public sector will expire next year and that there are now significantly different macroeconomic conditions in Slovenia than in previous years. The head of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions negotiating group added that the government had voluntarily committed in last year's agreement not to unilaterally interfere with the public sector's payment system. This commitment shall apply until the end of this year. With the possible adoption of the draft law in the proposed text, it would be unacceptable to intervene in social dialogue and would consequently be devalued. Although there is little room for manoeuvre, the conclusion of an agreement with the Government is not entirely impossible. In the light of the above, the Chairman of the Committee proposed that the Committee should, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, discuss and decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following conclusion with 13 votes in favour and zero against: “The proposal of the Law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other measures in the public sector is not suitable for further consideration.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the proposer of the bill, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, the Minister of Public Administration, to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The chairman of the committee has taken up all the developments in this law. Let me say briefly, as the government's responsible party for carrying out this procedure, that this law has been made in agreement with the trade union negotiating groups in the form of final amendments based on a signed agreement with the trade unions in the public sector, also effectively representing harmonised matter. Unfortunately, until the moment that the government negotiating group was given a mandate, and until the time it was necessary to make this agreement, we have not concluded this agreement, and we have therefore proposed to the committee, in accordance with the commitment we have given to the public sector unions, a decision which we are pleased to follow that the Members have not continued to consider this law. However, let me say that the negotiating process is still ongoing that I have positive information from today to continue the negotiations, so I am confident that, in the minimum difference that still exists between union and government negotiating points, we can in fact submit a coordinated proposal by the start of the implementation of this budget and thus provide the full basis for the implementation of the budget in the coming year, in line with the social dialogue. However, the possible unilateral adoption of this law would be contrary to the undertaking and would in fact lead to an end to the negotiating process which is still under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! What can be added to what we have heard from the government and the committee today? Social Democrats in this place are not going to get over the draft law on wage and other labour costs for 2017 and other measures in the public sector, because this proposal for a law has been unacceptable to us from the outset, especially because no agreement has been reached with the unions. This assumption was also confirmed yesterday by the Committee on Internal Affairs, by which we unanimously confirmed the conclusion that the law being tabled is not suitable for further consideration. In doing so, we hope that an agreement will be reached between the Government and trade unions in the field of public sector wages and that a law based on social dialogue with trade unions will be put before us for consideration. Despite the complications we witnessed on the committee yesterday, we are pleased to hear today that there is still hope that there will be an agreement, because it has been seen that this will exists on both sides. We hope and expect that this dialogue will take place as soon as possible. That the Government should forward to us in the parliamentary procedure a law that is acceptable to both sides, and that will be the basis for us to adopt and close this key document, which we are also considering, that is the budget. Once again, as I have already mentioned, it is time to come to an agreement, because there is a will and I believe that where there is will, there is a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the United Left, of course, we will conclude that the law, which would unilaterally, without agreement with the unions, intervene in the salaries of employees, that this decision is not suitable for further consideration, of course, to be supported. There are two reasons for that. The first is the arrogance of the government and the coalition. As we look at how this arrangement took place, it becomes clear that the government never really intended to talk to the unions. The proposal for this law was tabled on 27 September, legal, long before any agreement with the unions could be concluded at all. Next, through the entire procedure you've imposed ultimates and timelines. The conclusion is that this law is to be considered today, although it was clear last week that you are still far from a union agreement. You calculated that the unions of this ultimatum would be frightened, relaxed, and five before the 12th agreed to some rotten compromise, but that didn't happen. You pushed the unions against the wall, now you're pushed against the wall. And that's the way it is. Indeed, the continuation of savings after more than two years of economic growth and, in fact, three years of economic growth, I thank you for the correction, and on the fact that we have one of the largest exports in Europe, on the fact that the forecasts for further years are positive, in such circumstances, any continuation or even deepening of savings, as you intend in part, is unacceptable. Even more unacceptable is the fact that money was not a problem when 10% of the best paid tax was due, at the time the problem was not 80 million euro less in the budget, but now the problem was 23 million for cleaners, teachers, nurses and all the others who received cuts during the crisis. In the fact that this Government has done nothing to correct the budget on the revenue side where it is most lacking, it is said that we are on Europe's tail in taxes on capital and property. You gave the richest of income a tax gift. On the other hand, at the expenditure level, we would have deepened the cuts. If we had made a different decision, if this budget were not just a copy of the previous budgets, of the regulations with all the injustices described in them, but would have tried to remedy the injustices on the revenue side, then the money required by the public sector unions would not have been a problem. Therefore, as it is said, in the United Left, this conclusion that this law is not suitable for further consideration will be supported. At the same time, I call not only on the coalition, but on all the parties in this National Assembly to finally talk about a different tax and budgetary policy, one that will be able to fill the gaps on the income side, with the capital and the best paid, and to redirect this money to where it would be most socially useful. I'm afraid those words in this room will run into deaf ears. However, in the United Left we will continue to stand on the side of the workers, on the side of the poor, on the side of the work, and above all on the side of the weak. At the end of this, I also call on trade unions to put first those public sector employees working for the minimum, those employed in the public sector in the pay grade J, at all those who have been most overlooked and humiliated by the previous budgets and previous governments. I hope that this law has fallen today, opened a new chapter and, above all, the opportunity for these injustices that have accumulated during the previous years to be rectified.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, ministers, representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The commitment of Slovenia to reduce the budget deficit and balance the budget by 2020 is, of course, a difficult task. All budgetary consumers require great care and accountability, in particular in the light of economic indicators that are still very low and do not allow for additional spending in public administration. In doing so, the government has two paths to choose, with better organisation and rationalisation of work, it can create additional funds for internal transfers between individual consumers or simply extend existing austerity measures. Our government took a tougher path in 2012. It passed the Public Finance Balance Act. Unlike today's government, which does not prepare and submit any serious reform proposals, it in particular prolongs the austerity measures of our law. The fact is that in the area of wages for 2017 we are still talking only about savings and about the ZUJF, which has only so far produced concrete effects for the state budget. It really meant tightening the belt. This has been a difficult time and also our difficult decision. The tightening of the belt meant public servants, but it did bring savings, if at all we can talk about savings, given that the measures meant only a reduction of the deficit in the state treasury. It is also true that austerity measures have been limited in time and that today we should no longer discuss their extension, while we do not know how to accelerate economic growth and lay the solid and stable foundations of the Slovenian economy. That the government only shares and owes itself to social peace, but it does not create anything or it only knows by extra burdening the economy and by higher taxes, we all know. We also know that this year's coordination of the government with the trade unions on the extension of the austerity measures last year has also failed and the question remains openly what will follow on 31 December 2016. If there is no agreement with the unions, we have two options – we do not adopt the proposed law for 2017 today, which means that the public administration's work costs are charged to an additional 200 million. Alternatively, the adoption of a law without the consent of trade unions will constitute a unilateral intervention in the rights of public servants. Given that we have a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other measures in the public sector today at the table and will be decided by Members, the consequences of the legislation adopted are clear. It is understandable, on the one hand, that in the coming year the Government cannot and must not afford any additional burden on the budget and, on the other hand, it is totally unacceptable that such measures show its impotence in the reform proposals, which would only bring added value and thus end the extension of our austerity measures in 2012. Ensuring sustainable public finances, macroeconomic stability and effective governance of public finances is undoubtedly a priority and a priority for each government. We all agree with that. But the question is, how do you do that? Christian Democrats are convinced that savings are possible in the public sector, but the government must look for them and then regulate them in specific areas. However, savings must be sought in the field of optimisation of work processes and rationalisation of the organisation of public administration. The internal closure of these systems is also a problem that needs to be highlighted when it comes to the public sector. New employment in the last ten years is almost absent, the transitions of public servants within the system are minimal. Public administration is thus becoming increasingly aging and skeletoned bureaucrat apparatus. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that simply extending the ZUJF and some other temporary measures in the public sector will not balance the budget until 2020. Since this is the task of the Government, which will have to do much to achieve this objective, we will not oppose the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u133	Dear Vice President! I think it is right that we first make clear what we are going to vote on today. Minister, we will not vote that the procedure does not proceed further, but we will vote that the government law is not suitable for further consideration. It is true, however, that this is also the end of the process. In our Group of Members, we certainly support this proposal because the law is indeed not suitable for further consideration. Of course, the question of what to do with the budget package is being reopened. I will remind you again that, in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the way we have not yet adopted the state budget. Never. You are introducing a new parliamentary practice that does not really matter what it says in the budget, only that it is. Secondly, I would like to say that I sincerely want an agreement between the government and the unions. So, Minister, as happy as you can get to the end. With a little less arrogance, maybe the deal could be on the table in time. Yesterday on the board, we listened to how only the government side was failing, and the union didn't want to. When we look at the numbers, we find that the union side is actually the one that gave in for 170 million euros and the government for 10. Then who doesn't want to talk? Who doesn't want to make a deal? Anyway, once again, I want you to honestly agree with the unions, because the end of social dialogue, I don't think, is the right way for our country. In the end, I think there's still a question on the table until when. By what time do you think of measures from the deep crisis, from the times of the deep crisis, when the economy fell to the quarter by five percent and more, when do you think these measures will lead to the future? In 2017, the fourth year of economic growth will be, and you are still drawing on the measures imposed by the crisis and during the crisis. So this consideration would also be in place in this marriage. However, I am pleased that yesterday, and I believe today, we have decided unanimously that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Yesterday, at the proposal of the competent minister, we decided that the proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 was not suitable for further consideration. The mother's labour body would not have been able to adopt this proposal, because otherwise they would have refused to continue social dialogue. We have now achieved that this dialogue is continuing. This responsibility by the Government is expected by Members, and this has also been achieved. We are pleased that representative unions have also decided to continue. The negotiating process is therefore continuing and we believe in the conclusion of an agreement within real public financial frameworks or in negotiations focusing on financial measures and government commitments for 2017. At the same time, let us expect maximum readiness to conclude an agreement on both sides. We therefore expect responsible action. In particular, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we would not want the National Assembly to take measures before the end of the financial year before the start of 2017 that would not be the product of consultation and agreement with trade union organisations. This law, as part of the budget package, provides for the volume of public servants' salaries and other public sector labour costs for 2017 and therefore the National Assembly has the duty and right to take measures to replace the measures set out in this proposal or measures which the negotiating parties will not be able to agree on. It is extremely important that all of us, together, both the government and the union side and, finally, the National Assembly, participate for the good of the country and that we design and adopt measures to achieve prosperity for all the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. Therefore, the commitment to social dialogue and the expectation of a successful timetable for negotiations is the reason why we will support the conclusion of the parent working body adopted at yesterday's urgent meeting in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I'm not going to read it, but I'm going to say in those five minutes what I have to say. Have you heard what he's saying since the National Assembly is not a National Assembly, it's a circus. You know that, don't you, that's what people say? But you know they're right. It's a circus. Look, we have a budget on the agenda that's so big. There's some money on the inside, but we don't know what it is. But to determine this money, we have proposed a bill on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017. So with this law you wanted to say that the budget is so long that there is so much to pay for it. And that would be logical and right. That would be logical, and so does any normal government. But what happened? On Monday, when we started discussing this law, you asked, Government, to move to one of the next meetings. And that was yesterday. Now, look, the official announcement was, in writing, 23.15 a board meeting. Well, then there was the official announcement of the 21.30 board meeting. Well, then the president of the National Assembly said orally about this speaker: “20.15 will be the meeting of the committee.” Well, then Mr. Han said something to him, he cheated something against him, and the president of the National Assembly said, "No, the meeting will be 21.30." Right after that, I get a phone call from the authorities saying it's 8:30. And I'm coming to the meeting two minutes early. And what do I find out? That the session is over. Because the meeting started at 8:15. And you ended the session without the opposition, there was neither Brotherhood nor our Members, any since you started the session 15 minutes earlier than you predicted. And then at 9:30 a.m., the meeting starts again, and at 9:30 a.m., the minister says, "I am withdrawing the law." So the Minister's law, which says there's so much money in the salary budget, is withdrawing. Yeah, then how's your budget? You can't have a budget if you don't have this law. If you don't know there's so much to pay, you don't know how big the budget is. The Minister of Law is withdrawing. Then we tell him he can't withdraw the law because that's what the Rules of Procedure say. Well, then, of course, the chairman, the chairman of the committee, says we will reject the law. So you who proposed, Minister, this marriage, then last night you rejected the marriage. So now we have a budget that is supposed to be this big. We don't know how much it's gonna pay. That's how the cross goes for 200 million. Is that like a circus? It's like a circus. But this circus doesn't run the opposition, but you run it on the government side. Mrs Bratuškova made it very clear that the budget has never been so prepared. Given the political preferences of her and us, one would expect to find something there in 2012 or 2004-2008, which was present in all budgets, about 25 of them have already done so. You know I'd say something to Jansa and his government. Not that you would? It's not. She made it clear that the budget has never been so drawn up. My friend Logar was talking about an omelet this morning. That people will know what you're doing, what kind of circus you're doing. Look, you said, we're gonna make beef steak with sauce. But you put on the table one onion, flour, beans, flowers and oil. But you don't have any steak. Well, and now you're roasting this, baking and cooking and saying we're gonna get out beef steak with sauce. You don't have a steak yet. Yeah, how? How? I'm asking you again, how, the coalition? You're circuses. This is your marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Wilphan will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u139	Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! We have a bill on the parliamentary benches, which unfortunately has not been harmonised. The proposal regulates the release of measures and the increase in the salaries of public servants by 2019, and the result should be the result of negotiations between trade unions and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, in the course of the negotiations by the unions, the requirements for the existing austerity measures, namely the freezing of labour performance, the lower regression and reduced pension insurance in 2017, 2018 and 2019, were heard. If I simplify, the unions have made a request for the abolition of the austerity measures by the end of 2019. The Government considered that such a requirement could not be met, since without a legal intervention in public finances expenditure in 2017 it would increase by 215 million. Despite many, more than 20 coordinations between the government's negotiating group and trade unions, unfortunately, as has already been said, there has been no agreement to date. In the Desus Group, we have always believed that the Government and the unions will only find a common language so that an agreement can be reached, so today we are very disappointed when we consider the bill. We certainly agree with the trade unions that their task is to prevent or halt the decline in the salaries of public officials and, on the other hand, it is the task of the Government to provide sustainable public finances. Frankly, it is difficult to put ourselves on one side or the other, but now we are where we are, so at the beginning. At a meeting of the parent working body held yesterday evening, which, by the way, was not held without the opposition, as the representative of the United Left was also present, it was decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration. The government is already 6 days old. Ten. In the event of an unattainable agreement with the trade unions on the measures to be taken under the proposal for the Act under consideration, it is concluded that it will inform Members that the conditions for the continuation of the legislative procedure are not met. This Decision is followed by Members and Members of the Desus Group. We also believe that it would be irresponsible for the Government and the competent minister to transfer this weight to Members and Members of the National Assembly. On the basis of what is stated in the Desus Group, we expect the negotiations to continue and that the unions and the Government will only find a common language. Today, we will vote in favour of the conclusion that such a bill is not suitable for further consideration, and we are looking forward to a new, coordinated proposal for a law on the Member States. In the Desus Group, we do not agree to take unilateral measures, for such measures could certainly lead to a conflict that none of us would want. However, we would like to remind Slovenia that we have been recording economic growth in the last three years, and that is why it is also necessary to follow this welcome reality in the area of wages and other labour costs for 2017 and public sector measures. To this end, it is necessary to develop a budgetary policy that will not interfere with the rights of people who already live in one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to six. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market and are compatible with the internal market. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to further explain the motion for a decree. Matei Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u141	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! This year's framework for the budgeting of sectors is the first act adopted by the National Assembly in April this year, in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act. It shall apply to the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for 2017, 2018 and 2019. The framework sets out the target balance and the maximum possible amount of expenditure of the State sector for each financial year and the target balance, or the maximum possible amount of expenditure of each cash public funding. Although the framework is binding, the Government has the possibility, in accordance with the law, to propose to the National Assembly a change in the decision if it finds that the circumstances under which the framework was adopted have changed. In accordance with this mandate, on the basis of the publications of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, we found that GDP growth was 2.3% in the first quarter of this year after the first assessment of 2.3% in the second quarter of 2.7%. At the same time, we found that the labour market situation improved in 2016, showing an increase in the number of active workers and a reduction in the number of registered unemployed associated with high employment outflows. In July 2016, she was employed by 2.5% more than the year before. These changed circumstances have a significant impact on the financial plan of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which is also due to labour market movements and higher economic activity than anticipated in 2016, due to the unplanned increase in expenditure related to medicines and wages during temporary retention. Therefore, we estimate that in this part, a necessary and well-founded revision of the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2017 to 2019 is necessary. In addition, it is worth noting that the increase in the number of active persons also increases the income of the institution from the contributions paid to compulsory health insurance. Total revenue will be higher by up to €30 million or 1.2% this year, depending on planned expenditure. In the event that the maximum level of expenditure on medical bills would not change, the Institute of Health Insurance should, from 2017 to 2019, plan the surplus of expenditure and at the same time not be able to fully finance all commitments. This would also mean that the financial operating conditions for health service providers would deteriorate, as they would reduce their revenues, leading to a deficit and consequently to an increase in the deficit of the state sector. The reduction in the prices of health services would also have an impact on the quality of the delivery of health services, and a reduction in the volume would reduce the accessibility of insured persons to health services, leading to an additional extension of waiting periods and the number of waiting ones. This is already one of the key health problems. Accordingly, and in order to avoid the negative consequences that I have just described, we propose that the maximum allowed level of expenditure of the institution by amending the 2017 decree be increased by €35 million and €49 million by 2018. The proposed amendment will not have a direct impact on the maximum level of expenditure of the sector of the State as set out in the Decree of April 2016 and will therefore not affect the public funding targets set in the framework of the commitments adopted by the Republic of Slovenia. It takes into account all of the above, the Government considers that the increase in the ceiling of healthcare expenditure makes sense and proposes to the National Assembly that the amendment of the decree be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 66th emergency meeting, on 19. Ten. 2016 as a parent working body considered the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. In addition to the proposal for a decision amending the Decision, the Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which had no comments on it. No amendments were tabled to the motion for a decision amending the decision. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance explained in more detail the objectives and solutions of the amendment decision and said that the change was necessary due to the changed circumstances relating to the financial plan of the Health Insurance Office. The debate raised the issue of the cause of such a high increase in wage compensation costs during temporary suspension from work and in connection with this concern why health-care funds are not earmarked as a priority for the reduction of waiting types. Even though some members and members of the Committee believe that there is more money in the health treasury than years ago, waiting species are still being extended. It is also considered necessary for some to stop the trend with regard to higher disease and associated absences from work. Concern was also expressed about the level of uncovered public health establishments and the need to amend the rules concerning the adoption and modification of the framework, in particular the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the contrary, others supported the proposed amendment and expressed satisfaction with the expected higher revenues of the health treasury for which a change is necessary, otherwise the health cash surplus could not be used. In the course of the debate, the Minister of Finance replied to the question raised and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the proposal for a decree amending the decree and adopted them. No amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decree amending the decree on the working body; the Committee of the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019 be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, distinguished Madam Minister! By means of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019, the Government proposes that the amount of EUR 2 000 573 million be replaced by EUR 2 000 608 million for the institutional unit of health and EUR 2 000 638 million for 2018 by EUR 2 000 678 million. The amendments to the decree relate to the financial plan of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Therefore, in 2017, the amount will increase by €35 million and €49 million in 2018. Of course, these options would not be possible if our economy did not guarantee the growth of gross social product. This was 2.3% in the first quarter of 2016 and 2.7% in the second quarter. That is why it is even more difficult to understand the decision of the government coalition to impose even more burden on our entrepreneurs, our Slovenian economy, which creates new added value. However, let us not forget that only the minimum amounts of funds for the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance will not have any major effects. The reorganisation of financing of the health system is essential. The waiting species are getting longer, there is dissatisfaction in health institutions. Untransparent funding, like for decades, has fuelled lobbying while at the same time running out of money for those who really need health services. Instead of addressing the hardships of the insured through systematic measures, many of them have been left to the good will of fellow citizens. We know that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has a monopoly, while in New Slovenia we offer more competitiveness in the area of services and health insurance. As competitiveness increases, the quality and supply of services will also increase, which will help the patient to have better conditions, to be able to choose the insurance company and also the doctor where he wants to be treated. Citizens should be given the opportunity and the right to choose for their money the insurance undertaking in which they wish to have compulsory or additional insurance, and consequently to select the operators for which they will be treated or provided with care. The proposed model would allow insurers to choose between domestic, foreign, public and private operators under the same conditions. The insured person would choose healthcare providers according to his/her needs, either according to the quality of the services, or the waiting period, or distance from his/her residence, or the provider's reference. In Novi Slovenija, we will not oppose the proposed decision, which increases the funds for the health allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the delegation of the group of unrelated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u147	Have a nice hello again. Two days we are talking about state budgets, two days for 2017 and 2018. It's true, as the minister said, for the first time in a different way this year. Unfortunately, for the first time, we have adopted such a sombre budget, and for the second time, we have indeed adopted decisions on the so-called four public finances for quite some time. Today we are changing altitudes, we are raising the height of one of these four cash registers, this is health cash registers, which is good, but on the other hand, that no one will think that this minimal change will solve much of the health problems. Here I would like to draw attention to one more fact: that is that we do not actually have a proper procedure – this should be regulated in the Public Finance Act – how these decisions can be changed in any way. The Public Finances Act, the covert, fundamental document governing the area of public finances, of course, should also regulate this, but unfortunately we are still waiting for it, the deadline was last January, so I hope it will soon come to our parliamentary bench. But I would like to draw attention here to another fact. In the next item, the law on the implementation of the budget, we will discuss the coordination of pensions and hopes, I hope – this amendment of the decree is proof that the height is to be changed – that there will be no argument at the time of that amendment that it is not feasible because the decree determines the level of the spending of the Treasury PPIZ. This does not hold, and I hope that we will not hear such an argument in the National Assembly. As I have already said, in our Group, we will not object to a change in the decree, which increases – otherwise minimally – the means of health care, but I would like to make the procedure for adopting and modifying these decrees more precise as soon as possible, even in the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Ms Urška Ban will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. We met for the first time in the National Assembly this April with a proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017 to 2019. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act, the decree was then assessed in our Group of Members as a suitable basis for preparing amending the budget for 2017 and the draft budget for 2018. The draft budgetary framework, which sets the ceiling for expenditure, is assessed as one of the measures that improves the planning of the expenditure of all four public finances — the state budget, the budgets of municipalities and pension and health bills — towards greater predictability. The Fiscal Rule Act also allows for the possibility that, by 15 September of the current year, if the Government finds that the circumstances under which the framework was adopted have changed when the draft State budget or its amendments to the National Assembly for adoption are also proposed to amend the framework, i.e. this decree, which we are considering today. The National Assembly may accept a change to the framework when adopting or amending the State budget. Today we are considering amending this decree because the Government has assessed that the changed circumstances have taken place, namely in the work relating to the Financial Plan of the Health Insurance Institute. On the basis of statistical publications, GDP growth was estimated at first in the first quarter at 2.3% and secondly at 2.7%, which is more than the assumptions or macroeconomic circumstances that were taken into account in the drafting of the decree. At the same time, the number of employees or employees increased during 2016. On the other hand, there is an increase in expenditure on medical bills, which is mainly affected by higher expenditure on medicines and expenditure on compensation for salaries during temporary suspension from work over 30 days, which is paid at the expense of medical bills. It follows from the above that the revenues will be higher than they were planned and that if they did not adopt today this amendment of the decree or the maximum amount of expenditure in the health sector, they should be able to plan for the period 2017 to 2019 an excess of revenue over the expenditure of the health-care sector which the Health Insurance Office would not be able to use or would not be able to finance all the liabilities. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that this part requires a change in the framework for the preparation of the budget of the country's 2017-2019 sector. However, it should also be pointed out that the proposed amendment will not affect the maximum level of expenditure of the State sector as set out in the already adopted Decision and will therefore not affect the public financial objectives set in the framework of the commitments adopted by the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the above, the proposed amendment of the Framework Decision 2017 to 2019 will be confirmed by the Task Force of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Master Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u151	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The amendments to the decree proposed by the Government of Mir Cerar will not be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group; we will not support it for a number of reasons. However, it is crucial that both the Government and the coalition of the Modern Centre, Social Democrats and Desus have lost all credibility in relation to the adoption of the budget for 2017 and 2018 in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The fact is that in the National Assembly we are adopting a budget on the wrong data, in the wrong factual situation, and we are confident that this change is not something that this government and this coalition can believe. If this is to be voted, it is the decision and responsibility of the coalition itself. On the other hand, if the Government decides to make a change, these changes can take place when the opposition proposes certain amendments, but this coalition and this government are invoking that certain changes within the budget alone cannot be made for a single cent. We are convinced that there are many disappointments and, respected and respected, you are responsible for the decision you make. Last but not least, voters and voters will decide on who to vote in the next election. Given that this decision is primarily linked to the medical treasury, we can imagine what result we can expect. Last but not least, Madam Secretary, you also have a doctor's statement on the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Ms Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In April this year, the National Assembly adopted a new document enabling the planning of the country's target balance and the maximum possible amount of expenditure of individual institutional units. The decree has its foundation in the passed Fiscal Rule Act, so we have more room for manoeuvre. However, changes are still available if circumstances change. The changed circumstances this time relate to the financial plan of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. This will significantly increase the agency's expenditure on medicines and compensation for wages during temporary suspension. Of course, in the Desus Group, we agree with the proposal for amendments. We are paying attention to the immaculate health and pension bills. We have already drawn attention to this fact at the time of the adoption of this decision. We have predicted that in the Desus Group we will not allow the coordination of pensions to be questioned. We have said that the Members and Members of Desus see no room for excuses in ensuring decent and fair rights for pensioners. We continued on this path. That is why we are extremely pleased that at our request we have reached a higher level of harmonisation of pensions than originally planned, the latter will be carried out in January 2017. Although it seems to most that this is a sluggish matter, in the Desus Group we estimate that this is an important achievement. We must be aware that we have made a huge bargaining effort and have managed to remain within the maximum allowed amount of pension expenditure as determined by today's decree. This is not an easy task, especially since the last fiscal commitments make us more or less committed to the formulation of budgetary policy. On the other hand, we are a little more critical of the health treasury, particularly with regard to the impact of financial resources on the rights of insurers. Regardless of the way in which the medical cash register is filled, the highest final price is paid by the patients. In the Desus Group, we have repeatedly warned that there should be a substantial increase in spending on medical bills, even though this would require State aid in the form of a transfer. We can't afford to keep the waiting lines going. The situation is already alarming in one way or another, but the current medical statement makes the situation worse. In short, in the Desus Group we welcome all solutions that will in any way guarantee the social rights of citizens. First of all, this is the independence and sustainability of the health and pension allowance, and we will therefore support today's amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you for your words and your warm welcome to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we will support the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2017 to 2019. This is a document setting out the ceiling for the consumption of all state-owned cash registers, which provides for where the budget of the State, municipalities, health and pension funds may be cut. The decree adopted under the 2016 budget, which, of course, also covers the years 2017 and 2018, sets a ceiling for the consumption of healthcare at the lower limit, as the real need actually shows. In view of the changed circumstances, it is therefore necessary to amend the permitted spending on health care and, in this context, it is also necessary to take into account the warnings of the Health Insurance Office, which is based on the fact that there is an increase in the consumption of medicines for certain diseases and that higher employment also increases the cost of compensation for absence from work. It is therefore proposed to increase consumption. Of course, it should be noted in this respect that the increase in costs for hospital benefits is reflected in the fact that waiting species in Slovenia are unacceptablely long. So there is an increase in the long-term absence, which is the burden of medical bills, as well as the short-term absence, which is the burden of employers, but both are in fact linked to the fact that we have very long waiting lines and that many do not get enough of the appropriate treatments or interventions that are needed to improve their health as soon as possible. We also see this measure in this sense, and in the sense that it will contribute to the reduction of waiting types and, in addition to providing medicines to which this change is intended, we expect that the larger remaining share will go primarily to reduce waiting lines and thus to speed up the treatment of patients and thus to relieve the health treasury budget as well as the budgets of businesses and institutions that employ their people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a decree, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. Moving on to 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. AND 15. It's a day's work. In the context of those agenda items, the National Assembly will carry out joint introductory presentations on : Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2017 Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2018 Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for the State Election Commission for 2017; Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate plan for the Republic of Slovenia for the financial year 2017 Proposal for a Decision on the conduct of the State's real estate plan for the Republic of Slovenia for the Court of Slovenia for the financial year 2018 Proposals for decrees were submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Magistrate Tanya Bogataj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The plan for the management of immovable and movable property shall be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly together with the draft budget based on the Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities. The plans are prepared by the real estate managers of the State, the authorities of the State administration, the judicial authorities, the persons of public law, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. Taking into account the real estate management plan and the real estate management plan in 2017, 74 million EUR 665 000 668 is planned for the sale of real property and purchases of assets amounting to EUR 138 million 921 000 398. In 2018, €17 million is planned for €582 000,549 from real estate sales and purchases of assets amounting to €102 million,162 thousand,578. For the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Public Administration collected proposals on the State's real estate management plan for other public authorities for 2017 and 2018. We have received asset management plans for the National Election Commission for 2017, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption for 2018. The financial implications for the state budget from the real estate management plans submitted for 2017, other state authorities plan to purchase movable assets for the use of the state budget of EUR 100 000 in 2018 and EUR 290 000 in 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The motions for resolutions were addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's reports, I give the floor to Mrs Janji Slug, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. At its 29th meeting, on 3 November 2016, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Administration addressed the proposals for decisions on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2017 and 2018 submitted by the Government for consideration under Article 13(3) of the Real Estate Law and the Self-Governmental Local Communities. At the same meeting, the Committee also considered the proposals for decisions on the actual property management plan for the State Election Commission for 2017, for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, for the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018, and for the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption for 2018 also submitted by the Government under the third and sixth paragraphs of Article 13 of the Act already mentioned. In a supplementary explanation to the proposals of the general decisions on the State's real estate management plan for 2017 and 2018, the State Secretary of State at the Ministry of Public Administration provided an additional explanation. The President of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service had delivered written opinions in accordance with its competences and had no substantive substantive comments on the proposals for decisions. Members and members of the Committee first expressed their general concern at the debate on the motion for a decree last year, since they represent only a forecast of the acquisition and disposal of the country's movable and immovable property, not a review of the actual sales or purchases made. They pointed out the modest implementation of the commitments made in the decisions already taken, as data from the Real Estate Real Estate Report show that in 2014, the real estate plan was successful only in 5,24 % of the targets outlined and only 3 % of the assets available in the real estate plan. The best realisation was achieved in the area of purchase of motor vehicles, namely 63.4%, with 33% and 35.5% for purchase of information equipment. Members expressed some concerns about the specific conduct and fates of individual buildings owned by the State. The other proposals for decisions were not discussed by the Member States and the members of the Committee. In response to the issue raised in the debate, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration explained that the amendments and additions to the Law on Real Property of the State and Self-Governmental Local Communities had already been prepared, as the draft was already in line with the representatives of the municipalities. It also clarified the conduct of the exposed specifically mentioned properties. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted every time on and adopted all the articles of the motions. Since no amendments have been adopted to the draft decrees on the working body, the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and the Local Administration of the National Assembly proposes that all the decisions tabled and discussed on the real estate management plan be adopted in the texts submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities and the Real Estate Regulation of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities constitute the legal basis for issuing an annual decision on the real estate management plan. The owners of assets owned by the Republic of Slovenia shall draw up each year a plan of movable and immovable property intended for alienation and, at the same time, a plan for the acquisition of assets. Proposals for action shall be drawn up by ministries for their needs and the needs of bodies in their composition, as well as for public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds in their field of work, the General Secretariat of the Government for their needs and the needs of government services, the Ministry of Public Administration for Administrative Units and the Ministry of Justice and Justice. The proposal for today's decision and the actual property management plans cover the property that the State does not need and represents surplus assets for its operations, so it is willing to sell it or rent it to the economy or individuals if it considers that they will manage it better than the State itself. This is supposed to be the case, but in Novi Slovenija from year to year we find that the action plans are in fact only about the collection of proposals or the wishes of individual applicants, but they do not mean the realisation of the envisaged sales or purchases of assets. We therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to revise the real property management strategy by making it more economical or economical and, above all, more transparent. The strategy should enable the State to manage its real estate transparently in a way that will offer all those properties that it does not need to operate to buy or rent an economy and also to those with an entrepreneurial mindset or to transfer them to the municipalities where they will use them to realize the public interest. Priority should also be given to the activation of the existing housing fund, in favour of young families that do not have the opportunity to reach housing today. In 2015, out of a total of 434 residences of various ministries and the government housing fund, 219 were leased. Why not get them as a priority for young people, of course under certain conditions? While these are work apartments, which are intended to address the housing needs of public officials and civil servants, this does not mean that they can be empty for a long time, i.e. unoccupied. If the state urgently needs them, it should also give them up as a good host in accordance with its human resources policy. In the absence of such a need, however, it should transfer them to the housing fund as a vehicle for the implementation of the national housing policy. We know that many of these apartments are in poor condition because they are unoccupied and uncontained. In any case, the state should be a more responsible owner and the possession of the property should not only be planned but also realized. It is quite remarkable that in 2014, for example, realisation of real estate was only successful in 5,24 % of the objectives outlined and only 3 % was successful in the asset management plan, while there was a 30 % free of charge for the real estate. According to the Ministry of Public Administration, a public debate on the proposal for amendments and the completion of the sectoral legislation is expected to begin in the coming days, which we are very pleased to do. We hope that the amendments will also cover measures that will prevent in the future the reasons for the Court's decisions to reject an opinion on the state budget balance at the end of the year due to the lack of audit evidence. That's worrying. Let's remember. At the beginning of this October, we learned from the media that the situation could not be confirmed due to the lack of credible documentation for the transferred fixed assets, the lack of documentation on the purchase value, the errors in the calculation of the value adjustments and the unregulated entries in the land book. A man can't believe it. With such a true state, respected colleagues and colleagues, one wonders what kind of master the state is and how he can sell his property if he does not have his records. In the light of the proposal made in New Slovenia, we will not oppose the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask a kind family if I could have a little thanks very much. [[…]] Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Together with the draft state budget or changes to the state budget, the Government has also submitted other documents related to the draft budget and required by legislation. At this meeting, the National Assembly will also decide on documents setting out a plan for the management of the State’s real assets for the next two years, as it will at each session at which the budget is to be adopted from 2007 onwards, on the decisions on the State’s real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2017 and 2018, and on the decisions on a plan for the management of assets for other public authorities not covered by the said Decision, namely, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly, the Council of State and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre will support the above-mentioned decisions. However, we would like to draw attention to the question of the relevance of addressing the rulings in the proposed form, as we believe that the plans should be part of the draft budgets or budget changes under consideration and not a separate legal act. These acts represent a mere prediction of the acquisition and disposal of the state's movable and immovable property and in no way affect the actual realization, which means that there is no need for a specific legal form in our opinion. The majority of the proposed decisions have not even been discussed by members and members of the home working body, and it would therefore be appropriate to consider whether to re-classify those acts among the accompanying budgetary documents, which was still in force before 2007. With regard to the proposed acts, I would also like to draw attention to the issue of the efficiency of governance mainly with the country's immovable property. Individual cases have been exposed to the home labour body, which show that the state still does not have a complete review of the properties it has at its disposal, which may result in unnecessary costs, as state authorities and institutions may therefore also be residing in rental premises and not in those which are owned by the State and are currently unoccupied or free. As regards the management of the state's immovable property, we would like to point out that in the past it has been considered how to improve it. According to some incomplete data, this property is worth around €7.8 billion. The public real estate fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which provided for the consolidation of state property in accordance with the Fund, is to be noted, but has never come to life. Neither Janšev nor the government of Alenka Bratušek in their mandates, nor did they seem to have intended to terminate the previously dispersed management. Thus, after 2010 and after six years, this government has only taken the first step towards a more rational treatment of the property of the State in December 2014 with the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, which provides that until 1 January 2014, the State Administration Act will be adopted. 1. 2017 implements the transition to centralised state property management within the Ministry of Public Administration, and we believe that this will solve a wide range of problems. We expect that the latter will first lead to the acceleration of the regulation of unregulated real estates and their sale or rental. In addition, the consolidation of real estate within one operator will simplify records and allow state authorities and institutions to deal more cost-effectively with spatial problems or to relocate state authorities from rented premises to state-owned premises. Otherwise, it represents only one of the advantages that centralisation has brought. I could mention making investments even easier, and we could list them. The Group of the Modern Centre Party will therefore, as already mentioned, support the above-mentioned resolutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will move forward with the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u165	President, thank you for your word. Good evening, everyone in the hall. The Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities provides that the real estate management plan shall be submitted to the National Assembly, together with the draft budget. The plan for the management of movable and immovable property for 2017 and 2018 shall consist of a plan for the acquisition or purchase of immovable and movable property and a plan for the disposal or sale of immovable and movable property of the State. The real estate management plan for all asset users shows that the planned acquisition or purchase of land, buildings and land with a value of 36.8 million for 2017 and 16.3 million for 2018. The real estate management plan also plans the disposal or sale of land, buildings and land with a value of 65 million for 2017 and 6.5 million for 2018. The plans of conduct for all authorities also show the planned acquisition or purchase of movable property, namely for motorised guides worth 20.9 million for 2017 and 20.2 million for 2018. Further information equipment worth 18.2 million for 2017 and 12.5 million for 2018. Also for other movable property, 62.9 million was planned for 2017 and 53 million for 2018. We still have the sale of movable property for all organs. The sale of motor guides is planned at 9.2 million in 2017 and 11 million in 2018. Other movable assets remain at a value of 0.4 million for 2017. I would like to point out that our party supports proposals that go in the direction of acquisition and disposal of assets in terms of a good master. In this light, all state-owned property managers should also act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we were disturbed by the fact that it was not possible on the parent committee itself to identify the reasons for both the sale and the purchase of the individual property. The Secretary of State replied to our question that the Ministry of Public Administration only collects proposals. This, of course, raises the question of who chooses these desires or requirements before they are included in this action plan. Notwithstanding the fact that it is likely that it is only reasonable to plan the sale and purchase of immovable and movable property at the same time as the budget, the very non-realisation or low percentage of the legal transactions carried out on the other hand indicate a lack of rules in force. From the last report on real estate management plans we received at the September table this year, we can see that realisation of the planned value criterion was reached at a very low percentage, with the purchase of real estate at 5.2%, sales of real estate at 3%, purchase of movable property at 35.5% and sales of tangible property at only 0.07%). The non-implementation of the real estate plans of the country also means the same low realization of the current budget, of course in that part relating to real property. In all of this, of course, we are also asked about the reasons for such a low realization, as we have also warned on the home committee itself. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that, in all cases, it is both objective and subjective responsibility, and until the purchase or sale of state property is held accountable, the situation in this area will not change. We received information from the Ministry of Public Administration last year that the Ministry is actively considering amending the Real Estate Act, but, of course, more than this active thinking at the Ministry of Public Administration have not yet come forward and changes to the law have not yet been made. As long as the implementation of the State's real estate plans is so low and no one will be responsible for them and as long as these anticipated legislative changes are not made, the relevance of the obligation to prepare these action plans is questioned both on the acquisition side and on the disposal side of the State's real property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Desus Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u167	Dear Vice-President, three more ministers, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! We have several proposals for decisions on the country's real estate management plan for 2017 and 2018, which we will support in the DeSUS Group. The plans of action shall be submitted by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the draft budgets. In principle, we agree with the list of movable property acquisitions and do not have any problems, as the vast majority of the envisaged purchases of the country seem to make sense, but it is particularly important to note the worrying realization. As presented at the meeting of the parent committee, data on the real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate real-estate management report show that in 2014, the real-estate asset acquisition plan was successful only in 5% of the targets planned and only 3% of the real-estate management plan. While the best implementation was achieved in the area of purchase of motor vehicles and purchase of information equipment. As far as lists are concerned, while some amounts on them stand out, we believe that the purchase of these items will be justified and that the principle of caution and rationality is followed when spending taxpayers' money. In the Desus Group, of course, we are once again missing some more social expenditure, or some purchases of drying and washing machines will be made for some old people’s home, which is not negligible. While we welcome in the Desus Group the fact that additional funds are allocated to the police and defence, we also point out that Article 2 of the Constitution states that the Republic of Slovenia is a social state, so we hope that more resources will be allocated to this area in the coming years. However, we will support all the proposed resolutions in the parliamentary group, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed decisions for 2017 and 2018 on the country's real estate management plan for the authorities of the State administration, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds, as well as for individual budgetary users, such as this house, which houses the National Assembly and the Council of State, and the Constitutional and Court of Auditors, the State Election Commission and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, are an integral part of the proposed budgets for those years and are to be dealt with and defined by the National Assembly. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the proposed resolutions, but I would like to raise the question of the meaning and manner of dealing with these decisions or on such a form. In the real estate management plan for the public administration and judicial authorities, as well as public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions from year to year, we review tables with partial numbers, addresses, squares and indicative values. There's some additional information written here and there. While this is a comprehensive document, whose final proceeds are minimal or very different from what is expected, it is evident from the consideration of the report on the implementation of the State's real estate management plans for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and also public funds. In the past, the information contained in this document has highlighted an area, perhaps a town, on the basis of which a critical debate has developed. The critical debate has also developed with plans to address the renewal of the country's rolling stock or on individual budgetary consumers. Regardless of all these discussions, we have always found that there are major breakthroughs between planned and implemented legal transactions. In short, the Social Democrats, at the time of the presentation of the Group's position, cannot and do not want to point out the individual figures mentioned in the above-mentioned decrees. However, we want to, and we have said this before, that the management of state-owned property listed in these decrees should be carried out in accordance with the principle of a good master. It is also necessary to ensure economic behaviour during the maintenance phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable executive power, respectable assembly! As everyone has already said before me, we are considering a total of nine decisions on the availability of movements, properties of state authorities. I'm not going to list them now. With regard to such a topic in the United Left, we keep reminding ourselves that it is not really too clear what the meaning of these treatments is. Why? We warn that there is nothing we can do to help with these decisions. The documents, all nine documents, contain indications of certain movements, properties that the authorities will buy or sell, and we cannot in fact determine from these lists what this is about. If I touch only real estate, we should essentially look from real estate to real estate by a partial number, by land book, if you want, we should Google and then have little sense of what properties we're talking about. In view of the realization, as you have already said in the presentations, it is more of a wish list. We are really getting closer to happy December, but it seems to me that we should take these things a lot more seriously, because the realizations are miserable. The data we have for 2014 show that in real estate purchases were envisaged at a total value of good 58 million, realisation slightly over 5%, of 152 items was realised 13. The sale of 26 million real estates, realisation of 3 %, was mentioned. For purchases – a list of desires of €52.5 million, implementation of 30%. Sales are negligible, on the run. Such low-realisations are in fact very incomprehensible, especially if we listened to, say, the position of SMC. Why? In the fact that the Minister has, in this mandate, imposed the treatment of the State's real assets as one of the priorities, but we see that this is not the case in practice. That is why we propose to the Ministry to consider changes. If the purpose of this kind of treatment in the National Assembly is to control the availability of real property, then at the beginning we need some real documents on which we can carry out this control and make certain proposals and concerns. However, if we do not have this data, this treatment is too general and to a large extent a waste of time. Therefore, we cannot support such decisions in the United Left. However, since I have some time left, I would only be referring to an area that is very attractive in the area of housing policy. At the meetings we asked the Minister of State, we adopted a national housing programme. I will never forget the reply of Minister Desus of the quota, as you would say, but who would be interested in the apartment in Illyrian Bistrica and in Tolmin, which somehow also points to the unrealistic approach of the executive authority and the coalition to such a topic. I hope that at the next reading, at the next reading of such decisions, we will have some real data and also a real debate, but in view of the developments in this reference, I am an optimistic pessimist that this will happen. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much. We have concluded our joint introductory presentation and the presentation of the views of the groups on the proposals for resolutions. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the motions of the decrees, no amendments can be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The vote on the motions for resolutions will take place within the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I interrupt 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. And item 15 of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. This is on the eve of a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Matthew Vrančar Erman. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u173	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the legal nature of the State budget, the law on the implementation of the budgets is a necessary and direct condition for the implementation of the budget and thus for its implementation. The proposed law contains the content and other elements laid down or envisaged by the Public Finance Act, as well as other content to be laid down for the smooth implementation of the State budget. Let me focus on the provisions of the law on which solutions are new compared to the law in force so far. In doing so, I would first of all like to draw attention to the amended Article 12, which provides that the obligations set out in it can still be paid to a greater extent than the planned spending rights and, above all, to the fact that the rights of expenditure in the budget need to be ensured through reallocations. This has also been possible in recent years with additional indebtedness. The possibility of providing additional debt under the proposed provision is very limited and is permissible only subject to Articles 12 and 13 of the Fiscal Rule Act, which in other words means that exceptional circumstances must be identified first, then the framework should be amended, and only on these grounds will additional State debt be permissible. Therefore, the only simplification in this case is that this increase in indebtedness does not need to be changed or a budget rebalanced. The possibility is further laid down for the direct budgetary user to reduce the transfer from the budget to the indirect user under his responsibility if he finds, in the case of the issuing of an agreement on the indirect financial plan, that he shows the surplus of public service expenditure. The proposal for a law provides that in such cases the transfer shall be reduced by the amount of the surplus shown. The proposed law further provides that, on the basis of the Government's agreement, the number of employees in the Staff Plan may be increased by a maximum of 10 new jobs when it comes to employment with the direct budgetary user in the area of implementation of structural reforms. In relation to the financing of municipalities, I explain that compared to 2016 in 2017, the average is increased by €8 or €522 to €530, and in 2018 by €14, or €522 to €536, compared to 2016. The proposed average, as well as the increase in investment funds in 2018, tried to maximize the convergence of municipal expectations, but at the same time we must take into account all the other needs for which the state budget must provide funding. It is not negligible that fixed obligations, those arising from laws, from commitments already made, represent as much as 90% of the country's budget. Further amendments have been made to the municipalities in order to enable them to use the investment funds referred to in Article 21 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities for the Management of the Debt of the Municipality and also to enable those municipalities that exceed the maximum possible level of indebtedness to manage the debt of the municipal budget, provided that their debt is reduced. The proposed law further sets out the percentage of the permissible coordination of pensions and other benefits under the Disability and Pension Insurance Act and the amount of the annual allowance in such a way as to avoid exceeding the maximum amount of pension expenditure as set out in the Decree in the context of the preparation of the budgets of the State sector. In line with everything we have said, we propose that the National Assembly should support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u174	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chair of the Committee of Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, all of you! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 68th emergency meeting. 11. 2016 as a parent working body has considered the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The following materials were submitted to the Committee: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the revision of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the Commission on the supervision of public finances, the position of the Government in the opinion of the State Council, the proposals of the Community amendments to the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, the comments of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the comments of the Municipality of Ormož, the Municipality of Koper, the Municipal municipalities of Maribor, Velenje, Nova Gorica and the comments of the Scientific and Research Centre of Bistra Ptuj. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the individual article of the draft law were tabled by the NSI Group, Ambassador Alenka Bratušek, the Joint Left Group, the SDS Group and the Coalition Group of Members. The members and members of the Committee were also accompanied by a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 68. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the State Council and the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance presented a proposal for a law focusing on the differences between the current regulation and the proposed law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly presented the written opinion of the Service and said that most of the comments made by the Service in the written opinion were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. A representative of the Council of State also took part in the meeting and presented in detail the written opinion of the Council of State, which does not support the bill. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia, who postponed their opinion on the level of the average, which is too low, and is lower for 2017, 2018 than it was in 2013 and therefore the municipalities face a lack of resources and difficult to close budgets. However, they support a change in the formula for calculating the average. Article 21 of the Law on the financing of municipalities, funds for co-financing of investments, was also touched on the basis of which part of these funds should be provided to municipalities for each financial year at the rate of 6 % of the total eligible consumption of municipalities. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee paid the highest attention to issues relating to funds for local communities. The question of the height of the averages was raised. The opposition members of the Committee expressed concern about the proposed height and considered the amount too low. They felt that local communities were being given increasing tasks and, on the other hand, actual funding was declining. They also considered that the problem should not be solved by introducing a property tax; on the contrary, some felt that the municipalities should become financially independent of the country by financing the original taxes and therefore support the idea of a new property tax. A specific issue was also raised regarding the funds for the Ljubljana Municipality and the coordination of pensions, where members and members of the Committee had different opinions on the level and method of coordination. At the end of the discussion, the Minister of Finance answered fully the questions raised in the debate and provided further clarifications. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Committee to Article 68 and the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the other amendments did not. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u176	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for which she is the Master of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you and once again a nice greeting to those who are here at all. The Budget Implementation Act is supposed to be a technical law that serves to enable the budget to be implemented. For quite some time now, far from being just a law intended for the technical implementation of the budget, there are quite a few articles, a few things that are very substantive. I will once again protest the way we adopt the state budget or all the acts we are considering yesterday and today. The Budget Implementation Act is also part of the budget package and, with some provisions in this law, the Government will ensure that it can redistribute a large part of what you will vote on today by coalition Members. Maybe you should consider whether that's right or wrong. We have drafted three amendments in the Alliance, I have tabled them myself, I have presented them on the Committee on Finance, and unfortunately all three have been rejected. This is also the reason why we will not support the law in our parliamentary group. But let me still explain these three amendments or changes. Firstly, we want to prevent the government from implementing the budget in the middle of the year alone, willfully or worse, the Ministry of Finance, and everything you confirm here today becomes irrelevant. At the end of the year, it's normal, but it's not normal in the middle of the year. That's why we wanted to limit the government to the fact that if it did it by September 30th, it would have to do a rebalancing. But the coalition was against it. The second amendment referred to the municipal municipalities, the largest, of course, within this is the Municipality of Ljubljana. You're taking it, you're going to explain to Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans why. But the fact is that no other government in the Republic of Slovenia, except the government of Janez Janša and the government of Mira Cerar Ljubljana, sees it as the one to be hit. A little over 20 million. Three other municipalities, but 95% of the funds go to Ljubljana. The last, probably the most important change, is the coordination of pensions. The fact is that the Government wanted to prevent the so-called extraordinary coordination of pensions by means of a law on the implementation of the budget. On the committee, some woke up and found this, obviously no one at the government has found this, and also the ministers of Desus no, the coalition has adopted an amendment not to limit it, but, however, in 2017, you are preventing pensions from being harmonised, as is the case with the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance. The difference is 38 cents; 38 cents is a shame to give to your pensioners. That is why we have tabled an amendment in our parliamentary group, which gives pensioners nothing more, but only what belongs to them under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. None of us have the right to own that he has provided the pensioners with anything. But it is a fact that if the law remains the same as before you today, the coalition will be the one who takes the pensioners because they will not comply with the roofing PPIZ law. Therefore, the appeal to reconsider whether 38 cents per pensioner per month is really that much, and once again a warning, the minister said we were bound by the decree, but the decree, we saw and will see, we can change. So there are no obstacles to this, and I really ask you to consider finally taking into account, given the situation in which we are, the good economic situation, that pensioners are also part of Slovenia and have the right to what is theirs under the ZPIZ law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u178	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. The Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as has already been said, is a law that monitors the budget each year and is essentially intended for the implementation of the budget, this time for 2017 and 2018. The contents of this Act are practically similar every year and are laid down by the Public Finance Act. This bill, in addition to these provisions laid down by the Public Finance Act, provides for some other innovations, namely that the obligations set out in Article 12 of the proposed law, when it comes to obligations in payment policies to the European Union, pension protection, public debt servicing, may be paid to a greater extent than planned spending rights, only by ensuring in the budget the right to use transfers, except in cases that have a basis in the Fiscal Rule Act. Following the regulation so far, the funds were provided either with higher revenues than planned or with additional borrowings from the State. The following amendment also provides for the possibility for direct budgetary users to reduce transfers from the budget during the year if they find that the indirect user of the budget at the end of the year would show an excess of revenue over the expenditure incurred in the provision of public services. Furthermore, the law also sets the average for municipalities for the next two years. The financing mechanism for local communities is laid down by the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. In view of the public financial situation in recent years, various measures have also been taken in the area of Community funding, which have reduced expenditure from the State budget and also from the budgets of the municipalities. The restrictions adopted on all public financial expenditure can be released, as we have already said several times today, only gradually, since otherwise they would no longer follow the objective of fiscal consolidation. Taking into account the limits set for 2017 and 2018, we are of the opinion that, at the proposed level of the average, it is largely closer to municipal expectations, not entirely, while taking into account all the other needs for which the State budget must provide funding. For 2017, an average of €530 per capita is provided and €536 per capita in 2018. This year's average is €522. At the same time, 50% of the so-called solidarity balance of €9 million is also returned to the largest or most economically powerful municipalities in 2018. Investment transfers under Article 21 of the Law on the financing of municipalities should be added, but they also increase gradually. With regard to the difference between previous budget implementation laws, it should also be noted that this time it allows for the coordination of pensions of 1,15 % in 2017 and the harmonisation of minimum revenues by the end of 2018. So pensions will also be harmonised in 2017. In October’s pension payments this year, pensioners received a second reconciliation of pension benefits. Therefore, after the January increase in pension benefits by 0,7 %, October pensions this time were extremely harmonised by 0,4 %. As I have already said in the introduction, it is a law that monitors the budget each year and is essentially intended for its implementation. In addition to the solutions set out in the Law on Public Finances necessary for the technical implementation of the budget, the draft law also regulates the content, the average higher than this year, the harmonisation of pensions for which we assess that they need to be regulated, and this will also allow for the further implementation and smooth implementation of the 2017 and 2018 budget, so we will support the proposed law in our Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u180	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, for which the Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u181	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is an important document in relation to the budget for 2017 and 2018, because this law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia ensures the current and smooth implementation of these two budgets. Much has already been said by the Slovenian Democratic Party today regarding the opinion on the adoption of the 2017 and 2018 budgets. We are convinced that these two budgets are being adopted in the wrong assumptions and in an undetermined factual state. The fact is that the Government has failed to negotiate with trade unions and has also adopted a law that deals with the mass of public wages and public sector costs. We are confident that this agreement will not continue until the budget itself is voted on, and we are convinced that these are the reasons why we do not support the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It should be pointed out that two amendments have been tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the basis of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee which dealt with this part of the law, but which were not supported by the coalition, the Modern Centre, Desus and the Social Democrats. One amendment was bound by a limitation on the State’s indebtedness and the other was intended to increase the principality of the congregations. Unfortunately, both amendments were rejected on our part. Last but not least, the European Commission's opinion, which we have received on the table today, is an additional reason for non-supporting the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. The government has defined it loosely, and above all it is the fact that the European Commission has drawn attention to a number of things that we have also pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Unfortunately, Slovenia is in the last, third group, which is at risk of not complying with the rules applicable within the EU. Regardless of all, the budget is linked to all these laws, decrees and in the Slovenian Democratic Party to such a poorly prepared budget, which is also prepared on irregular numbers, but we cannot support – not a single document related to both budgets, both for 2017 and for 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u182	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Say good-bye to everyone again! Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for a law that we will unanimously support in the Desus Group. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget. The trend in public finances is gradually improving, but only in the phase of the gradual reduction of the structural deficit, which must be reduced in line with the Fiscal Rule Act towards the medium-term objective. Under the Stability Programme, the country's deficit in 2017 is projected at 1.6% of GDP and in 2018 at 1% of GDP. The law provides for the possibility for direct budgetary users to reduce transfers from the budget during the year if they find that the indirect user of the budget would show an excess of expenditure at the end of the year. The average provided to municipalities is increasing, with an average of €530 in 2017 and €536 in 2018. Although the government of formal agreement with the congregations did not reach them, they were not satisfied with the solution. They are plagued by a number of financial difficulties, including the recently adopted Funeral and Funeral Activities Act, which we did not agree with in Desus. Otherwise, we agree that unfortunately, the averages cannot be higher due to the financial framework of the budget, but we can be more careful in the future when adopting legislation that would further impoverish municipal resources. The law maintains provisions to cover the costs of mass migration, which are lower than before, and sets out ways and resources to provide funding for the preparation of the EU Presidency. The total level of indebtedness for 2017 is estimated at EUR 3.55 billion. As far as pensions are concerned, they will be re-coordinated, most so far at 1.15%, which means that a pensioner with an average monthly pension will receive seven euros more. Otherwise, because of the fiscal rule and the decision on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget, it is unfortunately not possible to coordinate under the basic law. However, within the financial framework we have achieved the most so far, we have negotiated to a certain degree. Let us also recall that this is the third consecutive coordination in a year, we believe that without Desus it would not have happened. The fact that they will be socially vulnerable, those with pensions of up to 750 euros, also shows that despite the burden of the financial crisis, which still holds public finances. Of course, the bill is not ideal, but it is the best possible option, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u184	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, where we note that the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 follows the limits imposed by the fiscal rule. It is necessary to regulate the content and method of financing the policies of the budget for which payment is also permissible over the spending rights provided for in the budget. If we make a comparison, we can see that so far it has been considered that important areas of such pension protection, guarantees for people's bank deposits, measures in the event of natural disasters could be provided with funds above the intended use, i.e. with additional income or with debt. This will not be possible under the new regime, but these necessary funds will have to be redistributed, which can therefore be reflected in the reduction of funds for education, health care, social protection, pensions and so on. So we can find that the consequences of an excessive bank hole are still being passed on to people to the greatest extent through a fiscal rule and thus impose on them a responsibility that has certainly not resulted from the creation of a bank hole. In fact, only a fiscal rule speaks of savings being made for public debt payments until it decreases to 60 percent of gross domestic product. For this reason, many people do not know the consequences of corresponding higher economic growth and it is impossible to attribute to good prospects in the future that they will also affect people's better standards. And if this rule has mainly affected the inability to start building too many infrastructure investments, this has now, of course, started to affect pension funds, public sector wages that are still in place within the consideration of this item on the agenda, and of course also for the health, security and so on. I think that, however, because of the information we have at our disposal and the problems we face in negotiating with the social partners, we should reconsider all the measures we have taken and return to the young people's future. Indeed, only through investment in science, investment and increased gross domestic product will the debt actually go down and at the same time will it be an investment in the future and the security of future generations. However, it must be pointed out that, as an alternative to mitigating the consequences reflected in this two-year law, it is also necessary to seek better ownership, with our property, which we like to call state, and in fact ours, the private property of each individual and not state. For when we speak of the state, many think that it is really no one. If we are aware of this, the establishment of the demographic fund is a priority that must respond in the future to the fact that we can also provide pensions to young generations, or we will have significantly more problems in the coming years, how to adopt such laws as the law on budget implementation if these additional resources are not available. There are also, for sure, many reserves within the public procurement system in the implementation of the 2017 and 2018 budgets. At least some improvements in this law have been adopted, but the key challenge and objective that has also been set up within the coalition contract to set up a public procurement agency, which would regulate procurement from one place for all needs at national and local level, would also bring very large savings in the 2017 and 2018 budget. This is something that should certainly be an additional challenge, and certainly the amendment to harmonise pensions would be even more extensive than is currently the case with this law, which we will also support by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u186	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. We will not support this law in the United Left. The reasons are as follows. The proposal reduces the rights of pensioners because it restricts the coordination of pensions. The proposal interferes with the rights of families, children, persons with disabilities, as it completely prohibits the harmonisation of parental, child and disability allowances. The government is, of course, saying that there is no room for money to eliminate austerity measures, which is absolute nonsense. Look, just because of two changes in the income scale in favour of 10% of the best paid, the government voluntarily gave up 80 million euros in revenue to the state budget. If I did not do so, we would now have all the means and opportunities to eliminate the austerity measures, particularly those of the socially weak. But before I can identify myself to these most antisocial measures, I will point to two more things. The first is an administrative restriction on the number of public servants, which is both pointless and harmful. It is pointless to limit, for example, the number of members of the Slovenian Army, because this number is diminishing by itself anyway. However, it is harmful to limit the number of employees where they are understaffed, for example in pension homes. Another such measure is a provision that municipalities can transfer surpluses of public institutions into their budgets. By doing so, the Government is trying to enable the municipalities that have tightened their belts and do not disintegrate them to intervene in public institutions, thereby endangering the development of public institutions. But in any case, the most important thing to do is to block the coordination of pensions and social benefits. Although we will create more than €2.7 billion of external trade surplus this year, the government is unable to ensure even regular harmonisation of pensions. According to the coalition proposal, they will be aligned by 1.15% and it is important to note here that coordination means coordination of pensions with inflation and not elevations. Each dozen of them would now, in the opinion of the Government, violate the fiscal rule. I think this comparison tells us everything. The coalition had no problem increasing the salaries of the best paid staff by more than 5% already with this September, while the government was not able to ensure that pensions would increase by half over the next year. Of course, the pensioners can be comforted by a statement by the Minister, who said on the committee: "Don't hold that the fiscal consolidation works only on the pensioners' shoulders." I'm afraid I'm going to have to say yes to that. Indeed, in other vulnerable groups, pensions will be at least partially coordinated, while the disability, parental and child support and unemployment benefits will not be increased by a cent for another two years. Let me remind you that the allowance received by the unemployed parents is their basic income of EUR 252 per month. This is, say, about 3,000 euros a year. If we look at the other side, we see that due to the income donation, a member of the NLB administration in 2017 will receive EUR 2 000 600 of the net annual supplement to EUR 60 000 of net base due to the change in the income scale from the Government. Of course, these two are connected. What the Government has given a member of the NLB administration has taken away from unemployed parents who receive EUR 252 per month. The government, and the Minister responsible here, are responding that recipients of social transfers can be comforted by the fact that last year the government did not reduce social benefits, even though the cost growth was negative. So someone who receives 252 Euros of parental supplement should be grateful in this logic that they have not reduced it to 250. Thank you for such a government, thank you for such a budget! Of course, we cannot support this, but we call on the coalition once again to consider its policies for the redistribution of wealth in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u188	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for them Mr Jožef Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you for saying so, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues! Every time we adopt a law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly, we must stop at the issue of the financing of municipalities. The municipalities receive increasing responsibilities and tasks, and the government is making their operation more difficult with low averages. We used to have a minister who wanted to abolish the municipalities, now we have a government policy of funding municipalities that wants municipalities to shut down financial tentacles, to end the de facto. Subsidiarity is one of the basic principles of Christian democracy, so in Novi Slovenija we advocate the possibility that at lower and more basic levels of society everything that can be best regulated there can be done. Local communities are best aware of the problems and needs of their people, so we must also allow them to regulate their own affairs. Regrettably, the coalition, by means of a way of financing local communities, which is also laid down in this law, opposes the Christian democratic principle of subsidiarity and, of course, the European Charter of Local Self-Government. However, if the Government violates the laws and the constitution, it is likely that it is also allowed to violate the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Our countryside is old and empty, but in the government it doesn't go to anyone's heart. In Novi Slovenija we do not agree to the aspirations of over-centralisation and destruction of the Slovenian countryside. In the New Slovenia Group, we have tabled an amendment to the proposal on the home working body, proposing that the average of €530 per year for 2017 and €536 per year for 2018 be increased to €543 for both years. As pointed out by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, in accordance with the methodology set out in the Law on the Financing of the Communities and the Regulation on the methodology for calculating the average for the financing of municipal tasks, the average according to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance should be EUR 652.6 in 2016. With the proposed amendment, we wanted to improve, at least to a certain extent, the position of Slovenian municipalities, and we followed the Community proposal of the municipalities of Slovenia. Therefore, if we want to strictly comply with the Law on Community Financing and Methodology or the Regulation on the methodology for calculating the average for the financing of municipal tasks, the State budget should actually provide some EUR 245 million more for local communities. So we're talking about the sum of EUR 245 million. Of course, it is clear to us in New Slovenia that this amount, the sums in this situation, when we have poor budgetary revenues, cannot be guaranteed, but at least that the Government would follow at least our amendment proposal, which would certainly make the municipalities at least partially satisfied. Unfortunately, the government coalition has remained deaf to our warnings about the importance of sufficient resources for the functioning of the local community and has rejected our amendment. In New Slovenia we will vote against the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u190	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 56 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government! We have made an amendment to Article 56 concerning investment and investment in the municipalities in particular. To start with the congregations under this law, given that this is the first article we are talking about today, although it is 56th, I would say as an introduction that this is a law governing everything other laws do not regulate in the field of finance. This is not only a law on the implementation of the budget, such as the title of this law, but what cannot be put into the budget for such or other reasons, not substantive ones, as well as those which are open issues that need to be specifically addressed and what cannot be realized under certain basic laws, is what can be done in the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget. Thus we have pensions that are not paid under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, but will now be paid under the Budget Implementation Act. Thus, we have the Law on Communities, where we have an average, but because this government seems to be too high, it is paid at an amount under this law – now according to the new 530 euros, in 2017, and today it is 522, while under the basic law, the Law on the Communities says, it should be over €630. Thus, it is an inkling of the failure of the government to comply with its obligations under the basic laws. I think as soon as possible and as soon as possible, this law needs to be cleansed. Simply purge in order to actually make this a law on the implementation of the budget. If I am in the congregations, the municipalities have not been given an average for several years under the basic law. The municipalities receive increasing obligations, including by increasing salaries in the public sector, municipalities are obliged to ensure that these salaries are increased in kindergartens as well as in some other public services, those with salaries under the public sector system. They receive new obligations and, on the other hand, do not receive the average established by the basic law. This manka is based on the quality of the services provided by the municipalities to citizens and citizens. Nothing else. People, citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens exercise their interests in the municipalities. Mostly, most of the interests. They meet their needs at the municipal level. Most of it. And here the state doesn't give them as much as they should under their basic law. This story has been going on for a long time. Already in the previous budget or in the period when we adopted the budget documents before one year ago, the story was exactly the same. I think there were a lot of mayors here on the stand who were protesting against such a low average, but something hasn't changed much. Even today, or in those days, I received at least ten requests from the congregations to have this average office, so that the congregations would have so much money that they would be able to carry out the role they had under the Law on the Congregations that they had to play and that citizens and citizens would therefore have the rights they eventually belong to. However, this government did not do so and did not take into account the congregations. Another matter that this law also regulates is how much the State owes in one year. This year or 2017, this country will be in debt for 3 billion 557 million. Our debt is 83%, the European Commission reminds us that this debt is too large, more than 60% of the gross social product, is the debt that should not be achieved in individual countries under the Maastricht criteria, but 83% of GDP is Slovenian debt. As one of my colleagues has already said, we are paying interest, a billion interest each year, and I think the lenders are satisfied with this billion. They'll give more because then they'll get more interest, and we, and the country is just as happy with it — as it seems. Because debt is actually increasing and nominally and as a percentage of GDP, what we actually earn in this country is a percentage of what we earn in one year. Of course, this is not good, and this is not perspective; it is not promising for either pensioners or prospective young people. For pensioners, this is not because instead of pensions being paid in accordance with the basic law - and I think that this percentage should be around 8% with the basic law if they increase - some amendment for one percent and 7 euros for the average pension will now be adopted. But this percentage should, I think, be seven times higher. This amount should be EUR 50. This is an obligation that the State has towards the pensioners, because the pension is not basically a social transfer. Retirement is a right enjoyed by people who are pensioners who meet the conditions and who have paid contributions for it. I'm not going to go into the structure right now, who paid more and who paid less, but they certainly paid for the pension. And a pension is not a social transfer and a pension is not a social category. This is a right enshrined in all documents and also in laws that actually provide for this. Desus is satisfied with seven euros, regardless of the fact that we should get the pensioners there about 50 euros. Okay, I wouldn't be, I wouldn't actually be. But of course it's Desus's thing, I'm not going into it, I'm just saying what belongs to the pensioners. Which belongs to the pensioners. Instead of being less indebted, less paid for interest, for example, and more paid for pensions and wages, and not least given to young people in the form of more favourable housing conditions, more favourable loans, better schools and so on, we will pay interest – and we are actually paying them – and the debt is increasing. I must say, the lenders, especially those across the Atlantic, J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sachs, are pleased. They're probably happy. If we're not satisfied and if we don't pay, they'll lower their credit ratings and they can bankrupt the country. This has already happened in the world; once with Argentina or twice and with similar countries. However, if, in the case of the deficit, when we talked about the deficit, the finance minister spoke about economic sovereignty, then I say that there is no economic sovereignty or that they have this economic sovereignty over Slovenia at the time of such debt by J.P. Morgan, Goldman Sacks and other financial institutions. I mean, most of them are across the Atlantic, some are in the United Kingdom. But this is the economy of this government, and we don't have a delinquency project today. These are fundamental issues and our amendment is also in terms of greater investment in the field of municipalities. I don't even believe this is actually going to be accepted. However, I would like to draw attention to another matter, which we have also tabled as an amendment, but unfortunately it has not been adopted by the Committee on Finance. That is, that what we accept today and will adopt the budget for 2017 and 2018 – you will probably accept it, we will not, because we will be against this budget and we are against this budget, the reasons have already been said today and yesterday – I would like to say that at least 30% of what you accept today will probably be realized or 50% will be completely different. Because the State has the possibility of transferring money from one ministry to another ministry and from one budget item within one ministry to another budget item within one ministry. In other words, today we are talking more or less about some fiction, some desires and so on, and about 30% to 50% of all this money is being redistributed. This is also pointed out by the Court of Auditors when it says that the money allocated to the underlying investment budget is then transferred to the current consumption. This was also allowed in 2015, 2016, it is also happening and I believe it will now. This possibility is also given here, in this marriage and, of course, it is somehow hidden to the eyes. From this point of view, I cannot and will not support the law on the implementation of budgets. For the first time because this would actually support a fiction, and for the second time because this law does not properly regulate the things that it should, neither in the field of pensions nor in the area of debt, nor in the field of community financing. There are a lot of these things, and these are fundamental things for the lives of people in this country, so I will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u192	The word is from the Minister of Finance, Mag. Matthew Erman the Vranic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. The last debate encouraged me to draw attention to some of the inaccuracies that have been expressed in the debate. First of all, as far as the reconciliation of pensions is concerned. If the formula under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act were to be taken into account, this year's pension should be harmonised by 1.2%, not by 7%. 7% in one of the debates was the number mentioned today, how many pensions did not rise because past governments with such and different measures held back or prevented regular harmonisation. But, as I have already mentioned in the introductions and on Saturday at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, it is not possible to support such harmonisation of pensions, because today's decree, which cannot be amended today as it is, would essentially be exceeded by such a solution and would be a decree and the Law on the implementation of the budget between us. This, of course, does not mean that, at some point in the course of the decision, it is not possible to change, but now, at this point in time, this would be a mutual mismatch. I also need to draw your attention to more accurate data on transfers. The law strictly limits the extent to which transfers can be made over the year and, in accordance with the law, can be redistributed through the current budget reserve a maximum of 2% of the total annual budget revenue. With regard to the sector's debt, the country would like to point out that, already this year, the country's debt will be reduced from 83.2 per cent of GDP to 80.2 per cent of GDP and the same two per cent debt reduction is foreseen in the coming year. But of course I am talking about the debt of the state sector, not the debt of the budget. Indeed, the additional debt foreseen for this year is increasing due to the need to finance the deficit A and B balance sheets. As long as we have more expenditure than income, this difference has to be financed with something other than an additional debt. Of course, this is the maximum debt, since, as I pointed out in the morning debate, we did not take into account revenues from potential sales, with which the scope of the debt could be reduced. I would also like to draw attention to another circumstance that reduces the debt of the newly created government budget. We anticipate in 2017 that the funds in the accounts will be reduced by €700 million. Let me essentially end this statement with the question of municipalities and the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment in 2017 proposes an increase in the non-refundable volume of investment transfer to municipalities by two percentage points, by two percent of the total eligible expenditure, i.e. around 22 million and by 11 million euros in 2018. This cannot be achieved without an appropriate budget change or without a reduction of expenditure on other purposes. As I mentioned in the introduction, the public financial framework gives us the opportunity to provide additional expenditure or spending rights for a wide variety of areas. I think that with the solutions proposed, we have found the right balance between different needs. The adoption of this amendment would undermine this relatively fragile balance. For this reason, the Government of this proposed amendment cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u194	Replica Master Andrej Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Apparently, I was misunderstood in at least one thing. I said that pensioners under the basic law would get seven percent more. Under the basic law, it's called the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. I haven't mentioned any years. During the crisis, pensioners were actually carrying a very heavy burden, including because of the ZUJF, even because of other laws, so there is no dilemma here. It is also known which government was adopted by the ZUJF and why it was adopted, but now it is going great. The public sector has also borne a heavy burden of crisis, but the public sector is now demanding to return to the situation where it has actually been. Similarly, pensioners have their own marriage, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which of course we all have, because we also pay for it and have rights, and in this period, if you want, the last 6 years, 7 years, these pensions have been reduced by 7%. That was said. And that's 50 euros a month on the average pension. That's what I'm talking about. Whether this government will do so in its entirety or not, that is, of course, another question. I also don't think he can do it in full, but it's not even indicated here that pensioners can get it back at any time, or that they can get it back in some way or in some way get it back. Now it is only for current matters, as if nothing had happened in the last 7 years and that we have no special decree, we do not have the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and so on and a special decree that actually eliminates those rights that they have under the basic law. That's all I was talking about. I don't think it's fair, even more; I think it's unfair for the pensioners and that even the pensioners should be told what to do, when and how and how they will get the economic results that are excellent, that everything is wonderful, that they run between and milk and that this can actually come back. I was misunderstood here.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u196	It's the same at the time of the debate, so it doesn't matter. The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u197	In fact, I had no intention of speaking to this amendment at all, but the distinguished minister, this one with regard to the fiscal framework, was indeed hunting. We have been persuading you all day to accept a budget that is not in line with anything. Nothing. The documents are not harmonised, there is no law on wage measures, there is no money; in short, there is a hole in the hole and you are now explaining to us that the pension cannot normally be reconciled by 0.38 cents, 7 million euros around because it is not in line with the fiscal framework. No, no, no! Really, 300-million-dollar problem, and you're saying that 7 million are not harmonised. And this is so, a little bit of crazy work from people who listen to us, and also from us who work here all day to tell you that the documents we're talking about are not consistent. Unacceptable! More about coordination after – you can also wave your hand, Minister, is not a problem, no problem; but the whole process of budget adoption is a fiasco. The whole budget adoption process! We both know that I am right, and we both know that this is the first time in the history of Slovenia. Too bad and sad!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u198	Since it's still an interest in the debate, please apply. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that we will support the amendment to Article 56. The coalition and the Government may say that the amendment is not appropriate, and they can make up many more arguments or arguments or show political muscles as to how and by which this amendment will reject, but colleagues and colleagues from the SDS have actually written this amendment on the basis of the requirements or following the Community proposal of the municipalities of Slovenia. What's this all about? This is about financial resources for investments in municipalities. Investments are development, development is jobs. Now someone might say that a municipal investment is, say, a road, a village, maybe a plumbing or, I don't know, a broadband internet network. Yeah, these are jobs, too. I can list quite a few municipalities that are mainly located in the Natura 2000 area. For years and years they have not received investors, today they have investors who first ask what road infrastructure is like. It's a municipal road. It must also be said that the municipalities are complaining, and we all know that in this multi-annual financial framework it is very poor to draw on or practically do not have European cohesion funds, so that municipalities do not have the financial resources to invest. And that is the problem, and we have forgotten to answer the question of who is most deserving, that we have turned negative economic growth or recession into positive economic growth. Who's responsible for this? Certainly the most accurate municipalities that carried out cohesion projects when we were on the target plane in 2013, 2014, 2015, and thank God we benefited from the previous multiannual financial perspective very well from cohesion funds, also thanks to the decision that everyone knows, the EU Affairs Committee during the Prime Minister of Alenka Bratušek. Now I am also reading the news that today the President of the Government met with young people and told them, when we are talking about the business environment, investment in development and so on, about jobs, and told them, Dr Miro Cerar told young people that the Government is improving the business environment for young people as well. The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, participated in a structured dialogue with young people in the context of the National Conference of Structured Dialogue: Social Change. He talked to young people about youth employment, entrepreneurship, inclusive society and the youth sector. As he stressed, among other things, young people should not lose their courage but rather seek ideas and solutions. Have we heard that before?Oh, my God! At the same time, he stressed that the Government's priority is to increase the performance of the economy, as it is precisely increasing employment, and one of the government's fundamental tasks is to create an enabling business environment for young people as well. Sounds good. That sounds really good! I can say that I am likely to be present on average at meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly and also at the plenary session, and I wonder if any law may have passed me, which would have improved the business environment. I don't think he's gone. The budget for 2017 and 2018 also shows that, in fact, the business environment will remain the same as it has been or is worse since 1. 1. 2017 activates higher taxes. I've had enough of this demagogies and public poisoning and tampering. Of course, young people know, unfortunately they know where to find a better existential environment. I'm really worried about where all this is going. Believe that, according to the principle of subsidiarity, it is right and also in accordance with the European Charter on Local Self-Government, it would be right for the State to devote more money to municipalities. It's true, you'll say, and there's a lot of uncontrolled employment out there. Published by these congregations, who do so, who does what they do in their own way. Surely such congregations are. I don't know that in Pomour. I'll tell you the truth. That municipal administrations are organised very rationally and that each investment euro will be reversed twice before it is spent. We ourselves know that about 70% of all public investments may be made – where? In the congregations! What are the state investments that are underway today, or will they start tomorrow? Is the third axis coming? Not that I know of. The second track — what about him? And so on and so on; what state investments are. If I am already in the field of investment and drawing on European funds, which is very bad for you, I must also draw attention here to the Investment Plan for Europe. The European Fund for Strategic Investments has already raised €138 billion of investment. Looking at where these billions went, I'm looking for Slovenia and I can't find it on the list. What's going on? Yes, if we do not have enough people to write projects that would benefit from these Euros from the EFSI Fund, from the Juncker Fund, which is 315 billion so far and has already been captured, the European Commission has already published EFSI 2.0. So an extension of this fund, which says it should encourage 500 billion investments. 500 billion! If we don't have enough good people, heart or knowledge, for God's sake, let's bring them from abroad, give them a minimum wage and 10% of what they're going to draw from this EFSI fund. I don't have a problem with that. Why can some countries, I don't know, finance the construction of a new paper shop? For example, in Finland – because it is not just infrastructure projects and facilities that are understood. It is also about businesses, for new jobs, that is the goal, not least that our governments should be and that is the European Commission's goal. That's why this Juncker fund. To build new wind power plants in Scotland, to build a railway around Bratislava, to build a new university hospital in the United Kingdom and 14 new health homes in Ireland, to support research for the development of an anti-alzheimer disease medicine, to support research in the field of 3D printing, to update train compositions in central and northern Italy and so on and so on. Indeed, the investment plan also brings €180 million for Slovenian small and medium-sized enterprises as a guarantee for credits. But we're happy with that. And there are so many infrastructure projects waiting for money and money is here. Obviously we don't know him or we don't have the will to bring this money to Europe. I read somewhere that Slovenia is threatening to lose the status of a net recipient from the European budget by the end of the year. I hope it's a journalistic duck, but we know how we use cohesion funds and how we use money from other funds – bad! We are almost halfway through this multi-annual financial framework 2014-2020. It would therefore be necessary, at least, to open the door, the financial door, if you want, to the local communities, the municipalities, in order to launch or complete their investments. No one's taking them out of the country. These will stay here for our people. Above all, I would ask and appeal to the Government if he has any will and some heart, if I may say so, to look at what is happening on the Slovenian rim. We've had ours today, and you've had the citizens of the Osilnica, but that's not the only story. There's more than one story like this. You know, Slovenia is not only the Ljubljana Cauldron, it is also more, and the country is as strong as it is at its edge. This has already been written down by the ancient wise men, and it would have been wise for this government to stick to it. Therefore, as regards our support for this amendment to Article 56, it is guaranteed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u200	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much, President. Have a nice hello again! My first point, few of you, Members and Members, is in the meeting room of the National Assembly when we are discussing the law on the implementation of the budget for the next two years. I agree with all those who say that this law is of a technical nature, that it is a technical law, but it is very necessary. Without it, it will be difficult to put into practice the budgets adopted for 2017 and 2018. I believe we will also accept ZIPRO. Just as budgets are not ideal, this technical law cannot be ideal for the implementation of the budget. Of course, I do not have a problem with the fact that those budgetary users who show higher revenues from expenditure during the year and are expected not to be in losses by the end of the year will be reduced in their share of the budget. It's the same! Nor do I have a problem with the resources to cover the costs of mass migration, but even less, I would particularly like another euro or some millions of euro more reservations. It is of little concern to me, however, that there has been no agreement with the local communities that a little more is being allocated to them in the next two budgets than this practice was in this year's budget, but I am sure that more resources should be allocated to the municipalities. But given that I am an optimist by nature and that I have expressed my desire in the morning to have trade unions and governments reach an agreement, I believe that the representatives of the state and representatives of all three municipal organisations will continue to talk and to the benefit of all - because there must be no winners and losers here or otherwise, we must all be winners here - that they will agree that some matters do not need to be done, that they will somehow reduce their obligations and consequently do not need to have so much resources as a bureaucratic obstacle, I think it is right for them to finally withdraw. I am also convinced that immediately at the beginning of the year or in the middle of the year there will be no suspension of the commitment, if it comes to the end of the year, nothing will be wrong, but it will only be that the new commitments will no longer be made. However, those who have or have dealt with budgets at both municipal and national level at any time, you know that these obligations are undertaken by many immediately at the beginning of the year, the necessary documents are prepared and are followed only by the implementation of these obligations. However, it is not right to find that the funds towards the end of the year remain to be spent at all costs, and then you will get more money in the next budget. All legal obligations, all decisions in the field of social, family policy, employment and so on will be enforced, as decisions are the result of legal provisions. I've forgotten that about the local community. I'm a little sensitive because I'm aware that I come from a local community like all of you, including those from Ljubljana. I don't think it's allowed to be a family here to take Ljubljana, but to everyone else, I don't know, not to take it, to add it or anything. You know, when an agreement has not been reached with the congregations, it is practically taken by everyone. If anyone knows what it looks like when they take it, we certainly know this to the Mariborians; how it looks when they take it from someone, one way or another. I think we need to get this over with. Of course, I have read this report of the European Commission, which just ranks us as that third group of countries, by the diagonal, more quickly. So now I'm even more certain that this isn't so tragic. Again, now I can categorically say that there is no need to be the side of the bell, that we are the only, there are many countries, there are quite a few countries here, but of course it is not something to be commended and we would be pleased to be in the society of Italy and any other countries. Here is the possibility of risks for an unbalanced budget, but I think we are going in the right direction, we are trying to harmonise the budget in some way, and in particular to decide whether or not to decide to end this structural deficit once. But here I warn you, and my firm conviction is that we must go with gradual, more progressive, than linear release of these measures, restrictive measures, if you want, and by no means insist and foolishly insist on this fiscal squeeze, because monetary policy itself will not make progress, it will not achieve any satisfactory financial growth, but it will also be necessary to do something in the fiscal area, but not only to tighten the belt and find new holes, that the belt will be even tighter – and I will not mention the onion concept here. I am sure that now that there are positive financial effects, people must, or should have, some of them, or I do not know who I am serving. I believe we're going this way. But, of course, I have to end up with pensions. I am very sorry that, instead of the 1.15% harmonisation in January 2017, we are not expected, I don't know, to put it in decimal place, but instead of the first one for the second one, there is 11.5% harmonisation. But of course it is impossible; it is impossible in a relatively short time, I speak a relatively short time for two years, to do more than we did with the first, second and third coordination, but when earlier, my dears, nothing has been done in this area for several years. Nothing in this area! Simply, we have started – and I, once again, would like more harmonisation, better pensions, but it just doesn't work that fast. But you know, matching pensions is just one segment right here. In the debate in the light, we have a White Paper on pensions. I will be extremely happy and some believe that you have read the starting points there, some of the starting points seem quite right to me, some of the dilemmas are open, some of the starting points, if you were faithful, would be crossed here, a few times, and they are truly such that for us in Desus, personally, if you would, they are absolutely unacceptable to me. But what? The White Paper is some kind of platform to start talking about this at all. It may give us a diametric opposite solution, but above all, to start thinking about it; above all, to remember these discussions here today, when there are many of you who would start worrying about the pensioners overnight, when we have been tormented by the fact that we have achieved these few tenths or a few percent, we have been mostly alone or with the support of coalition parliamentary groups. So please, do not simply take into account or put these conclusions or results into nothing. We're not stopping here, we're moving on. Above all, I would like to talk to you about less demagogies and that we are trying to really help pensioners, those who are in the retirement system today, as well as, or above all, whatever you want, those who come into the retirement system in a few years or some ten years, if this goes in that direction, will be much worse for them. Then we will all have an excellent opportunity together and each one of us to cut off the matter and make this pension system and the way it pays better, sustainable, and above all, to allow all such incomes I agree, Comrade Shircelj, with you that there is no pension – this is always us in Desus – it is not a social category; it is certainly not a social category. [[…]] It is based on one solidarity system, which I will now not explain on this occasion and must, of course, enable everyone to live a decent life. And that's what we're gonna do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u202	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greeting again in my name! I would like to define in particular the two amendments to Article 68 of the ZIPRS. One was filed by the United Left and the other by unrelated Members. What's the difference, exactly? The United Left proposes what we have proposed in our Group, namely the deletion of Article 68, paragraph 1, of the law, by which pensions would be coordinated in accordance with the applicable law, namely the ZPIZ-2, under the provisions of the ZPIZ-2. If they were to comply with these provisions, they could be harmonised by 1,2 %. We have also forwarded this proposal to the other coalition partners, so we have agreed that pensions will be harmonised by 1.15%, which means that it is still within the framework of this financial framework, because we have adopted it a little earlier and that we are not in breach of the fiscal rule. If we had accepted this proposal proposed by the United Left, we would have agreed on pensions by 0.05% more, but then we are in violation of what we have already said several times today that we cannot. Then there's Mrs. Bratusek's proposal. However, I have already discussed this at the first point when we discussed the financial plan for 2017, and I have stressed that I am sorry that the aid and service allowance will not be harmonised in the following year. Well, with regard to the regression, I had a proposal at the time that the same financial means would be able to achieve greater success if we tabled an amendment to Article 74 of this ZIPRS, which sets out how the regression should be shared across these groups. This is not proposed here right now, just so it's probably a higher amount, I don't know. We are not clear from this amendment what we would like with regard to this annual allowance for pensioners. However, what Mr Šircelj said today cannot be the subject of today's debates in terms of correcting the wrongs of pensioners because they have not been coordinated for so many years. This is all about another matter now. Of course everyone would like to see this but I don't know if this can't be done now according to this zippers. [[…]] Neither is the subject of these amendments that have been tabled. It's a whole new thing. I mean, we need to pour clean wine, what we can do, what we can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u204	I believe it's a replica. Yeah. Replica mags. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u205	My colleague has processed all the amendments at once, even though we're at first. But you know, where there's will, there's a way. 1.2 is in line with the ZPIZ law and, at the proposal of Desus, coordination will be lower. Lower than it would be without Desus' proposal. That's a fact, but you can stand here one way or another. If you haven't been able to convince the government, maybe I can convince everyone else with Desus, and let's do it the way we need to. It's not enough that you want to, and you want to, and you want to. Today you will press the button, just like in 2012, when you reduced your pension. Desus's Members have only reduced pensions in Slovenia once. Thus today, by pressing the button against this amendment, you will vote in favour of non-compliance. For the non-conformity of pensions with the law of STIZ. Once again, it's not a lot of money, but it's really a symbolism to give the pensioners what they deserve. It's the same with the regression. It's the same with the pensioner's regression. Once again, you too, dear colleague, as well as the ministers. The fact that something is not in line with the fiscal rule is the most hunting rule of the day! With a fiscal framework. We've been explaining to you all day that the whole budget isn't in line with anything, and nothing bothers you! Now you are disturbed by the 7 million that should be provided for the full coordination of pensions. Who can understand that?Oh, my God! Tell me who can understand that. We don't, even pensioners can't understand it, I tell you, given the many emails I've received. They can't. They cannot understand that it is difficult to reconcile something that is already so inconsistent. So there's just one more thing that's gonna get a little out of hand. It's already out of line anyway. Don't just make excuses. That's really hunting.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u206	Somehow I've written down everything we want, there's no replica on the replica. Of course, it is possible to sign up and sign up in the next round. How? [[advertising from the hall]] Do you still have the replica? Okay. [[advertising from the hall]] You just haven't discussed it yet, so there's no replica, but I've noted that you'll speak like the last, after Shergan. First of all, Magus. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u207	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I'm misunderstood. I'll just say it, Mrs. Lefty. You actually said that there is nothing wrong with today's debate being the subject of Mr Shirtzl's debate. On the other hand, Mr Prikl spoke about the need to start talking about pensions and the White Paper and so on. See, if I wanted to harmonise the total amount I mentioned, that is 7% or 6, it would have to be calculated precisely in order to make it 50 euros per average pension, then I would have made an amendment. I was just talking in the debate about the need to ensure justice for pensioners and that they had a very heavy burden at the time of the crisis. I also mentioned the ZUJF and so on and so forth. And you need to start talking. That is why I cannot agree with you that today's debate cannot be about pensions. That's all it is. The subject of today's debate is pensions, and this can also be said by your colleague, Mr Pikl, that we must talk about the White Paper and pensions and so on. [[…]] Thus, I would not repeat these 50 euros for the pensioners and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u208	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished minister, representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about ZIPRS – the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which gives the Government the power to manage the budget, and some austerity measures have also been written down during the crisis, but we must not forget that we are phasing them out today. So much for the intro. As for pensions, it seems to me that we will achieve a just and real pension when people who have worked 40 years and also reached the right age — at this point, for example, 60, 40 can already have a full old and full pension — and that they will have the right pension for it. But we will not solve this in this budget, if we talk for another week or one month, not in this budget. In the future, however, pensions will have to be provided for a decent life for everyone in Slovenia, and that is what we all agree on. I would now like to respond, however, to Mr Horvath and to the achievements or drawing on European funds. Because this is a simple matter I've been following all along, and it's very difficult to listen to when wrong data is. In fact, we forget that Slovenia's achievements in terms of drawing on European funds – even in the new perspective – have already been achieved. Last but not least, you mentioned that you do not see projects from others, I will say, from other European instruments, these are CEF and EFSI, successful as far as Slovenia is concerned. I will quote here that in the second CEF call, 11 projects out of 16 were approved for Slovenia and were successful, amounting to 132.6 million. This was published 17. 6. Also on Commissioner Bulchev's tweet. That's not true. We are not aware that we are in Slovenia and we have people who are also successful in these projects and that, in fact, success in the application of the project is mainly that people here are successful, that they are good at finding ideas and then they can present them. I tell you that projects are people, and this message is needed by our people, including this. I would like to point out that Slovenia's achievements in terms of drawing on funds, as 117 decisions on support amounting to €718 million have been issued by the end of September 2016, which means that it is available for development projects which are or will be co-financed by European cohesion policy funds and represents 24% of all available funds in the IP. In a good year, this was the first decision on support issued in August 2015 and therefore more than a fifth or a quarter of the available resources were granted. Please see, however, that in 2015 it started with the editing of documents for the 2014-20 perspective, and that is why expectations are already exaggerated in 2016 and 2017. That we do not understand that it is a bad pumping, but that at the moment Slovenia is also good in the new perspective. I would really like this message to go to people in these days because it does not hold that we are not good. He really doesn't. See, in 2015 and 2016 guidelines for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy were being prepared, instructions began to be prepared. A regulatory framework for the implementation of European cohesion policy was set up in 2015. Regulation on the implementation of European cohesion policy, the Community-led Regulation on the implementation of local development. Look, CLLD, these are the projects run by the Community. At the moment, these groups have begun to receive validated strategies that will enable them to implement these projects. Now they're going to go out and get people on the ground to sign up for this. Therefore, do not say that we are not good at this and that we are not successful. Of course, we want to encourage people and groups in the countryside and our fellow citizens to become more involved in these projects and that everything is even more successful as regards small, micro projects. Of course, the conditions for other projects will still be prepared by the State, and I agree with that. But these levels are different. Then, of course, we still have CEF and IFSI instruments here. I also mentioned that we are successful on CEF projects. This is said to still be a bite in the EFSI. Of course, it is also working on this and I am sure that Slovenia will be successful here too, because, among other things, there is a conference on Friday in Brdo to learn how these projects will take place. So it's right that you're critical, just not where there's no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u210	Replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sure my esteemed colleague, Private Shergan, did not understand me, so in the form of a replica, I want to explain what I was actually talking about. I understand that drawing on cohesion funds and other European funds is particularly a focus of the EFSI fund, that we are successful when the project is implemented when the money runs out. If you understand that applying to a project is already a success, and if you say that projects are people, then what you repeat is that we are doing better. We'll probably do better. But also you, we all received yesterday's e-mail message from the European Commission, we get a message every week, as well as a report on the implementation of the EFSI fund. It says here on yesterday that there are no infrastructure projects from Slovenia yet among the approved projects. I was talking about infrastructure projects. Of course, others who are opening new jobs are welcome. However, I am pleased and I repeat - you may not like this – I am pleased that, in the previous mandate, we are right on my initiative when I chaired the Committee on European Union Affairs, and I have decided that the Committee on European Union Affairs will quarterly monitor the use of cohesion funds. The then government was grateful to us, and the current government is grateful to us. Ask Minister Alenko Smurf. We are grateful when, with a government report, every quarter comes to the committee and we talk about problems and problems there. I warn you, we are almost halfway, almost halfway through the current multi-annual financial perspective, the multi-annual financial framework and us by drawing, personally and New Slovenia, we are not satisfied – you can, you have all the right – and we are even thinking about what local communities are proposing to us to give the government an initiative to change the operational programme. It is true that there will be a year of dead running, and then we will activate the projects, the ones on the lager, as they say, in stock. You'll see, there will be problems with this operational program, there will be problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u212	There's no replica to the replica. We can take it as the last in line, given that there are two more applications now. First of all, Dr. Franz Duck has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good evening, everyone! I must say that I have largely followed this budgetary debate, as Alenka has already said, from the work path, including for the railway in Bratislava, which has not yet been built, with some colleagues from the coalition and the opposition. For starters, I'm going to start somehow like when a Member starts at number 90, I'm going to read something -- a little sad that I have to put a Mariborian in here, but it's a replica then on the e-mail – "Dear! Flossule of Prikla, etc. We don't digest. It is necessary to act today for the future on the basis of documents. We're full of fairy tales. Soon we'll be the third world. We want people to tell us once and for all. Nice greetings, citizens." You could be reading more than 10 minutes of e-mail now. First, let's touch the pension. I am fortunate that we have the best experts in Parliament, so I am also well established. We're going to the source. As early as 1996, not to speak wrong; yes, 1996 reduction of employers' contributions. A few billion have been raised by 2014, up to 2016. The first Janša government, in which Desus was also a member, abolishes the tax on paid wages and here is a hole in the pension box, which we are mending, as we are mending, from the budget. It's a fact, it's a background, we know that. Now we are talking here — about what? About some amendments dealing with half the pass. We are talking here about three proposals – and I am ashamed to say this because some people who are struggling to live will receive €81 or will receive €88. I'll explain our amendment first. We don't steal them in January, and for next year, we give them two more beers. I'm sorry. And also because of this fisscot of yours, which, let's say, the neighbors of the Austrians entered into the ordinary marriage because they're a little more clever and smart, and so on and so forth, it's easier for me not to say anything. Not only would I like to attack Desus, but a party that has been in all governments since 2000 and in all coalitions, the definition of the coalition in Slovenia in this century would be "this is something where Desus is present", and the definition of the government "this is something where Karl Erjavec cooks the affair": once there are buckets, second floor, third time something third. [[…]] I'm very badly looked at here by the Desus Members, but after a decade and a half, they say, "I'm sorry." I don't know. I could now speak to the OECD, recommending that – the minister leaves us for a while – that pensions should be at 70% of wages, we go up to 50%, and this is some thing we should be dealing with. We should deal with it on the revenue side of the budget, we should deal with it through the management of state property, we should deal with it, we have a corruption survey again, which tells us a lot, and then we should not talk about these shameful issues. You know, people in the field ask me, I'm gonna quote, I'm gonna be rude, "Are you guys fucking with us?".. In fact, with this kind of debate, we're more than just making fun of people. I've explained our amendment to you, but now I'm going to do it because this debate is quite general in some other areas. We touched congregations or, if you like, local governments. We have a 20-year-old who has ratified the Charter. In Bratislava, I also asked them if the local communities decided they were against the TTIP, how you'd hit them. A nice challenge, Mr President, we will also have to talk about this, but this is not a topic now. Of course, there is no local government without money. How many times have I asked the district minister when we would place a mandatory assignment on the table in the congregation, where we financed it, or whether we would rank it as what we would do? When he had me full of suitcases, he told me to go somewhere on the government's website to look at it. The Minister of Finance – we have found it difficult, that is some reason, this is a problem – it is very easy somehow to go about the fiscal policy of the country. The highest tenth will raise net wages, of course this will not contribute to the competitiveness of young engineers who will receive two and a half euros of gross wages from this title without wine to express themselves. And we're going to have an 80 million drop. I ask my students if you know where the budget of the congregation comes from because I have to educate them – most of them do not know. Let's move on. At least the pensioners will get some change, in fact nothing — we're making a fool of them. We are making even bigger fools out of a whole cohort like poor people, because the actual majority of social transfers will still be frozen, with blocked coordination: unemployment benefits, child support, human resources scholarships, disability allowances. You know, modern development societies, if they want to be like that, are inclusive societies. Societies that allow you vertical mobility, as we call it, sociologists. I will not speak as the financiers say, but if I prefoxarically say that the budget is a social contract expressed in the universal equivalent. If this is translated into human language, how many pennies do we have and how do we sail with these pennies in this society? And this Swiss cheese, the budget, shows that it doesn't apply, we're all on the same ship, we're not even on the same convoy. Now that we're sitting here as Members and we're going to get a stamp, we're doing well right now, but maybe in the next term we'll be back in an old, bent boat; my mother in her mother tongue would say a pink boat. But many are already there if I'm metaphorically speaking. And then I remember what was happening in the reference to this mandate. Pensions for deficient professions. What? Some rural children who do not have public passenger traffic will lafay and will be over-athletes and will be late. What they're bragging about from the coalition is, look, it's something self-evident, but at this development of local communities, the infrastructure, at the very hearing of the Minister without the cohesion card, I said when you're going to launch the field office system, when you're going to go to the field when you're going to help the local communities. And I didn't think of it on my lawn, it's done by some companies that go through these projects a little bit more seriously than we do. Then, according to my excessively long weight, they once told me that they had set up a phone line. Good. Then we always have a problem, as if we don't know that when one cohesion ends, another cohesion begins, and then we have this famous hole that I'm talking about. In short, this budget, as unhappy as we accept it, forgets something that I have seen more and more recently that we do not actually have on the one hand or you, from the coalition, accept our proposals dealing with the issue of increasing poverty, and on the other hand this society and the state, I hope that even this century does not have policies for less than 40 years. He doesn't have any serious relevant policies, and now you can come up here and read some chicken, and I'll show you that you're wrong. Once with Jazbinski, housing problems have been resolved forever. Scholarship. If there is a generation of my own, a generation that lives in half or lives, if there is a generation of older people who can't live from the past, less than 40 years old, than they don't exist, when I paraphrase the leader of the SD Group, "we've already destroyed everything," and I don't see any development from these budgets. It seems to me that the task of Members is not to say we are sorry, unless we somehow want to suggest that we are actually in the middle of a week. I hope not. If we touch the Mariborians somehow, if I put a little local stuff on the table. In this reference, I am the only one in the opposition from the Moroccan Members and Members of Parliament with a nearby environment. You're all in the coalition. What did you do for this Maribor? We meet, we say, you're running out of Drava power plants, it's a conclusion that HSE is moving to Maribor, driving across the Trojans, forget about all this. That's what I think of these populisms that I'm listening to here, in fact, to put it mildly, I'm going to use the word "Mir Cerar" inadvertently. You probably won't accept these amendments; of course, you have some voting machine. Pensioners who have lost one nice pension in the period 2010-2014 without an interest rate on inflation calculation or who have lost two pensions since the crisis until now, but probably somehow think of their own and the income they have, and something other than watching TV and holding their head is not even left behind, which is actually sad. From all over this string, look, 20 years, a hole in the pension box is being drilled. 20 years ago, we knew we were an aging society. For 20 years, many of you who have sat in this policy, one less than the other, have not done your homework. I will not say that the United Left has the answer to all the questions because such a party would never want to vote or coalition, but we have ears and eyes and unfortunately we have to deal too much with the fire-fighting measures – I am a descendant of the beginners of fire-fighting in Slovenia, that I am even a little populism – but I would like to start talking about some development issues at last. But this is not possible because of this – and I would not like to be personally offensive to the lady who has agreed to be a financial minister because there are no serious developers if you want. We don't even have macroeconomics in this country or what we have, they won't want to go into politics. That's also the problem. I'm going to finish because I'm probably going to do a replica too. When this government was burned — what did I say? I said, let's go to work, and to Mir Cerar, let's stop being a moral theologian and they thought I was an impolite, up and down. That's what I said because I had to say it because in the next two years, it turned out that man wasn't out of the decision-maker test. I also said that certain people have stepped into too many shoes on the ministerial team, and once it is found that we are not doing any further political destabilisation, there is a change. The exchange took place because of some other business, not because of it. This will again be understood as an insult, but it is not. Then it reads: we work, we work. I believe that people are working in ministries, but we really need decision makers in certain executive functions that are going to be better, and that is also our problem in all this debate that we are going here. Because otherwise, yes, or I can say in a few moments that I am sorry and left the Member States, which is basically what I would like to do, because responsiblely both me and my comrades from the United Left are doing our job. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. Mrs. Marinka Levičar, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you. I have to go back to the pension debate. Because my colleague, Trček, has told me how they have a good professional job, and I'm just going to say that I've been monitoring this pension insurance, and I've been monitoring this pension system for my entire working life, and that's why I think I can say something that's been said today and it's not true. Pensions have never been reduced in this country. Mrs Bratušek said that in 2012 we reduced our pensions. Every pensioner receives a pension decision and such a pension, this pension has never been reduced. Only the supplements were reduced in 2008, due to the ZUJF, which then fell in the Constitutional Court and got them back. Thus, the deficit in the pension fund cannot be compared with the pension. This country has always fulfilled its legal obligations to pensioners. If there was a pension deficit, this was due to the fact that we are all already repeating this, due to the reduction in the employer contribution rate, the State has committed itself to making more contributions or from the budget in order to finance this difference. That's why it saddens me when we say that pensions have fallen and that we make fun of pensioners. Perhaps Mrs Bratušek meant that the ZPIZ-2 was adopted in 2012 by the government of Janez Janša, which included Desus, but did not reduce the pension. Only the period for the 18-year pension benefit to be extended is now increasing and therefore the pension benefit is less favourable. This was done in order to make the pension register more resilient, so that the State would make fewer contributions to the pension fund. Once again, however, we in Desus have advocated that pensions be dignified, that they should be reduced, or that the lowest pensions should be increased, but the present law does not allow us to do so. Therefore, we need to be realistic and show the situation as it is. But, as my colleague Uroš said, the White Paper, we'll have a chance to improve it. I think that no one is making fun of the pensioners, as a colleague mentioned earlier, that it is true to us all that all people in this country should live with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Magus first. Alenka Bratušek, behind her Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you. Dear colleague. On 11 May 2012, with the 6 votes of Desus, the Public Finance Balance Act reduced pensions for 26 000 pensioners. Of course, new decisions have been issued. In 2013, when I took over the government, we put an end to this. So let's not fool around. 6 members of Desus can list: Hršak, Jurša, Jenko, Kotnik Poropat, Plevčak and Simič. That's a fact, that's a fact! Let's not fool people. Every time I say it, it's like you're making a fool of us. The Public Finance Balance Act 2012 reduced pensions for 26,000 pensioners. I mean, I don't know what else to say. [[…]] That's the way it works. That's the way it works for a party that says they work for pensioners. That's the way. And no facts, no facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u218	Dr. Franz Ducky, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. Let's go talk to the data. Of course, she can reverse the rhetoric of the Member as she turned it. But the facts. As a result of austerity measures and as pensions are not regularly coordinated, they decreased by 8.7% over the period 2010-2015. Of course you will say no, because at your formal level they did not, but they did not increase as they should under the harmonisation law. Today, we have a 40-year-old full-time pension guarantee of €440,444, which is 160 Euros lower than the statistically calculated poverty threshold and which is also lower – how much? For a little less than €25 than the bonus price. That's a fact. And we make laws here! And that's a fact. See, the SD Members are not in at all, except for the President, you have formed – SDS and so on – this country, this state in it for the last twenty years. Now I wouldn't just be running into Desus here. But you were in all the governments of this century. It wasn't me. In the Saturday annex before the last elections, Mr Karl Erjavec said, "Ah, because without us we cannot form a government." I hope that the next government will be able to come together without you, because otherwise this distance from the poverty threshold, I fear, will continue to take place. I didn't say, mate, I said I'd save everything, but I'm not gonna make the most of it like you. There is a fundamental difference between you and me. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u220	Replica Mr. Uroš Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u221	First of all, I have to find out that I am very surprised by the fact that in the debate on ZIPRO, the Law on the implementation of the budget, which we know is that the debate is going on – and I would also understand that concern and I would like to, but I don't believe it, the genuine concern of some pensioners. But I find it very difficult to believe or imagine very hard to imagine that the debate at ZIPRO is about the Group of Members and the party Desus. I'm truly sorry that it wasn't done enough in the past. I have repeatedly said that the pensioners are unfortunately, and that is the fact that the highest price of this transition, or these crises, or financial, economic, whatever we call it, has been paid. Yeah. And in the past, there have been many things left out, and in the last two years, I think the effects are already here of our efforts. I'm not saying we're the only ones. The 11 members of Desus will not be able to move and will not be able to move this wagon from the mud itself. That is why I sincerely want both the coalition and the opposition here to help us with those things that are important to people who are important to the pensioners. In this famous decree we are talking about, 5 billion is a framework or a ceiling on expenditure. Remember how much we gave for the bank hole, for the bottomless hole, for the bottomless pit. How much we've given these funds. If only this hole [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Presidents, please, please, colleague Trčko Sicer is nice to be here talking, otherwise there is a great risk that granite cubes will be metal. It would be very nice if we didn't have this bank hole and we could use it for pensions, for coordination of transfers, for wages, for whatever. And I'd be very happy to see if one day these findings, or the hypotheses, that occur in the public eye, have paid 1.3 billion into this bottomless pit, into this bank hole, if that's true. If that's true, we've paid $1.3 billion too much. And if it comes to that, look at 1.3 billion. Do you know what that means? Some will be able to calculate how many school lunches this is. I will be able to calculate that there will be no more difficulties in paying pensions and all valorisations over the next 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I ask if anyone else would like to discuss Article 56 and the amendment of the SDS Group. I guess not. I'm guessing yes. Dr. Ange Logar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you. I am going to join this general debate because I think we need to come forward for these two minutes, which is what we have left. Comrade Prikl said they were doing well and couldn't pull the cart out of the mud in two years. So is the train in the mud or what? We have been listening all day to how this government has excellently programmed finances, how a development budget is ahead of us, and how even pensions will be paid. This was said yesterday, and today, Comrade Prikl tells us that there are basically wagons in the mud and that there must be some other governments where Desus will sit inside to pull this wagon out of the mud, even though Desus sat in all the governments that he has so far. But when I listen to this debate today about pensions, then there's something else about the bank hole and so on. I already have the impression that a campaign has begun. That now on many Desus wants to appear as if he was the main reader for pensions, while clearly it appears, on the whole linear line, that pensions in all this period when Desus was in coalition were actually falling. And when you give a few minor supplements to pensioners, do not work out of it then some political propaganda. Because the essence of today, which is with all this budget, is that for the first time in history we will have an uncoordinated budget obviously adopted. See, without harmonising with public servants, you are in the process of adopting the budget, and in the end, you will only be forced to give in completely to the public sector if you do not want to have protestors on the street. But they will draw briefly, as always, those who create with their work and depend on their hands on how they live in the future. Without demagogism, please, it is a budget that is the worst prepared so far in the history of this parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Mrs. Kovacich, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you so much for saying that. I really had to come by, because somehow my heart hurts, I have to say, in all this debate. A 17th - century French philosopher who has not been as philosophical as you are now said that dialogue is you and I who lead to the true truth or to the right solution. That is why I agree that we need to talk to get to the point where we could say that pensions are harmonised. But because of our previous great indebtedness to the state, we have committed ourselves to a financial balance between income and expenditure. We're bound by the Fiscal Rules Act, and that's not what this is about. In Desus, we are working hard to ensure that the wages are decent, that the payments are worthwhile, and that the pensions are not charity. We must be aware that we have made every effort to reach a compromise and agreement on the harmonisation of pensions of 1.15 to which we can reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Runch wants a procedural one. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you for your word, chairman. I was merely citing the data and the recent political parliamentary history of the Republic of Slovenia. I didn't philosophy anything. I have some acquaintances and acquaintances of philosophers, and I kind of expect my colleague to apologize to me. I also expect my colleague to apologize for never throwing any stones from the Maribor end, but not those stones or tonalites, not granite ones, but they're called something else because I've already said it in this House, and I'm not going to say it again – Google yourself. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. I suggest and I believe that you and Mr Piklo will be able to talk to each other, and there is no need to apologize here in front of everyone else. Anybody else want to discuss this point? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 68 and the amendment of the Joint Left, which has been amended, and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Alenka Bratušek, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u229	This is an amendment that will ensure that pensions are harmonised in 2017, as is the case with the Disability and Pension Insurance Act. Ladies and gentlemen, just one keystroke separates you from giving the pensioners what they're doing. Not the word "we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna..." but the pressure and 7 million euros. The 7 million euro total costs the country this amendment. I mean, if you're not ashamed to say that because of the 7 million budget, it's going to be a little bit more out of line and what's a little bit more hollow than it already is - I don't know. This will be an act not to say what you have done for the pensioners all the way you have fought within the government. You've chosen to make coordination lower than it would be with the law of PIZ. That's what you fought for! And the fact is, yes, 16 years old, Desus is in government. When he goes up, when he goes down, when the problems are, when it's nice, Desus is always there. But it's also a responsibility. No! No! You are guilty or responsible, only responsible for the part that goes up, but when it goes down, then everyone who is with you is responsible for it. And even in 2004 to 2008, when the bank hole was created, 5, 3, 8, 10, 12 will determine what the real one is. [[…]] You were with him at the time, too! And you acted? Did you do something? No! No! Now, 10 years later, you're smart for everything back. Do you know what it's like to be retired? Thus: If Karl Erjavec feels good in his ministry, the pensioners are on the sidelines. However, if Karl Erjavec feels a little less comfortable in his workplace, then it is time to take care of the pensioners. That's exactly what it looks like. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, not only in Desus but also the others, that you gather courage and that together we provide these small ones, for the budget of the small, 7 million – and even for the pensioners it will not be much, that is to say, it will not be much – but pensions will be coordinated as provided for by the Law on Disability and Pension Insurance. Do not continue with some intervention ZUJF and ZIPRO to stop what belongs to people. All day, not one day, two days, we've been listening to how we're on the right track, but it's not like we're doing things the right way. And that's proof that we're obviously not on the right track. Earlier it was said that someone read the European Commission’s opinion — yes, very much at a time — and that it is not so bad. The one who said that really read it for a while because they put Slovenia in a group of the worst countries. In particular, they wrote, for everyone else, that there is a possibility, a probability; in Slovenia, it says that there is a high probability that we will not achieve what we have done. If you're happy with that, great! I don't have a problem, I just don't think it's the right way. Do you know why — now in my name — we are so busy with Desus and the Desus Members? Because you have begun to boast about what you have done for the pensioners; you are the ones who have begun to say this. But you've done it to make pensions less coordinated than they would have been. This is the only thing you and the other two parties in the government deserve. And that's a fact! Thus, colleagues and colleagues, with the amendment before you, let us do nothing but coordinate pensions in the following year as required by the PPIZ law. On behalf of all Slovenian pensioners, I ask you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. For a while, I listened to this debate on this agenda item in the office, and I had already felt a good atmosphere in this Parliamentary Chamber mainly because I suddenly saw how many supporters of pensioners are in this Chamber. But when they needed to be and they were carrying the main burden and the primary responsibility and they were in the government, they never showed it. Dear colleagues on this side and a respected colleague on this side, you know, you ran the government. It is true that we have been involved in this government, and it is true that we have been as strong as the number of Members or Members of Parliament. You know, if you were to enforce your will on this side, the power of the fiscal rule that you proposed would not be given to pensioners for several years. Comrade Alenka, you were the Prime Minister, and you had the opportunity and opportunity to make this mistake and reduce 8.7%. You knew that this was not possible, so it should be properly discussed or discussed. I've been looking at you this morning. Your muscles were always shaking on your face. I recommend that it calms things down and that we have a normal conversation in this room. I want to talk to myself just fine. Who's doing the propaganda? We've only said what we've achieved. I'm asking someone who's worked in the field of finance, budget for years, if there's one less than 1.15. I can simply say after the CAP that 1.15 is greater than 1 and 1 is less than 1.15. Desus' responsibility for pensions has always been and will also be for voters who support one or the other political party. In particular because of this, respected colleagues and colleagues, members of all political parties in Parliament, especially because you do not like to remember them because they are always a burden to you. And we're always responsible for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u232	Mr. Jursha, microphone. Your time has run out. I'd only ask you for the technique if you could turn the microphone back on. Just a minute. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u233	Thank you for this opportunity for me to say a few more sentences. I will not be too long to give the opportunity to those who are now anxious to respond to those words that I have spoken. You know, what I said, I'm responsible for that, too. This was the most felt when we actually represented the interests of this population and we were together with you and with you in the government and we were unable to achieve this because we did not have the power to demand that the pensioners be given more. We are aware that pensioners live on the threshold of poverty, and that many live on the threshold of poverty, some even below the threshold of poverty. We want immeasurably to be once in the future, even if we are to participate in any government or take on this responsibility to lead the government in order to ensure minimum revenues and also minimum pensions. That's the key. If we can take this responsibility, I guarantee you that we will make this difference, but I have talked about 7% and a few percent that we will make it even to the pensioners. And I'm not saying that because there's gonna be an election tomorrow. Because there won't be any. Because there won't be any. Many of you here may want this to be, we do not want it, and we want to be a coalition partner in this direction, to also ensure the interests of pensioners within this and not just the interests of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky. Excuse me, I'll give you my word immediately, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Dr. Franc Trček – gentlemen’s. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Chairman. I know that you also come from a party where you advocate a lot for equality and respect for women's rights. This time I will take over for colleague Alenka Bratusek, because what a fellow Member did in this Chamber is an overdose. Overdos. The way the faces are moving and the way they are moving is the last thing you can discuss at this point today. I know that a respected fellow Member is in an unenviable situation, the fact is that he also spoke the facts, and in the government of Janez Janša 2004-2008 pensions went real up 25%, but you did nothing. And you didn't do anything! All you have left today is to insult your fellow Members. You insulted her, and you insulted me. I believe it's only worth saying, "Uh," but I hope you've been heard by wider citizens and citizens today, because that's, you know, more than "uh". That's a lot more. This is a message of what you actually think, but you're saying something completely different. And you even run some committees for work, family, social affairs and equal opportunities. It's sad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u236	Dr. Franz Ducky, it's your procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u237	Thank you for your word. I've really been gone for a couple of days. But is it procedural now after a new general discussion? Obviously, because he was abused in front of me, I did not hear any proposal from the chairman to be addressed. Mr Jurša even started the procedure and then jumped to the debate. I mean, now if I wanted to make fun of you, I'd tell the president, if maybe you're working too hard to lobby for a new function – let's just say I didn't say that. I'll use him in part, and give me a warning! If I understand correctly, Desus fought with someone who has a net pension of 500 euros to have 1.5 passes, something like that, 75 cents more. Was I right? No, a little more, yeah. No, we're talking about leaks. That's the difference that Desus made. I don't have a face-to-face muscle to do that. My stomach's turning. But to someone who's hungry, and even more so, his stomach is turning, and that's disgusting, and I can't say otherwise that we're actually going to this kind of debate. With regard to this, we were in the government, we were not in the government, I mean, when the United Left, I hope that as soon as possible in some government, it will negotiate what are some of our basic commitments, which are why we are going to coalition and government. But if we fail, we will, of course, get out of this government and such a government, because we do not cultivate duality. President, my procedural proposal is to follow the rules of procedure. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. We've got some replicas. Let's start with the mags. Alenko Bratušek, Mr Jurša and then Mr Prikl. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u239	Unacceptable things are happening, but apparently the nervousness of my colleagues is really great in front of me. Mr. Jurša, you are the 46th voice in this coalition. So, without Desus, so to speak, there is no such government. So don't paint the pensioners, tell them you took something from them. That's the first thing. The second thing, yes, the economy was falling, the deficit was what it was. Today you have a billion more euros, a billion more euros. You give 300 million to recapitalize something you don't know what it is. What are you going to recapitalize? Yeah, it's hard to listen to me too all day about how you're fighting for pensioners. So fight, you've got them less than they belong to. And that's a fact. And I ask you to correct this mistake with the amendment tabled. Now I don't know, you've provided a little more than 1%. Yes, or Desus' ministers don't sit on the government, and that 1% confirmed it. What kind of flossules are these? For who? I don't know who they are. Even kids I know don't believe. The pensioners aren't any more anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jursha. Mr. Jurša, can you tell me who you have a replica of? Are you discussing it?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u241	I can discuss it if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u242	You're deliberating, fine. You have time, please, Mr. Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thanks again. You know, I have no intention of fighting. It's not my goal to fight here. I'm not nervous, either. I have to be honest with you. I have nothing to be nervous about. You're the nervous ones who want something, but you can't. Talking about cents, promotions, shame, I don't think that's right. Now I'm going to ask you a question back, Your Honorable colleague, the so-called Franz. How much did you contribute to a higher pension? Nothing. This is about your cents. In the end, I'd like to say one more thing about my colleague, Alenka Bratushek. We don't work here all day, but someone's been nervous all day, and even yesterday, he seems nervous. I will make sure that the Members of my Group do not act nervously. Believe me, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u244	Dr. Franz Duck wanted a procedural one.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u245	Look, I didn't think I'd have to pick up, but these insults are already going across every healthy border. I didn't sit in Parliament, I was lucky that I had a stroke because I had a long mouth I had for a year, a year and a half, contracts. I've been saving my research for international and some other things, and I've been paying for my pension. And Mr. Jurša is lying now. What I paid in the pension box is not in some Smurfs waiting for me, as unfortunately in Slovenia still thinks too many people, but went to some people's pensions. So I would expect Mr Jurša to apologize to me, but, at the same time, he grieves me if the leader of the pensioner's parliamentary group does not know this, but he probably knows. And it seems to me that now we are a little too much attacking Desus, because after all, some new policy has come to this National Assembly, much too much of it has received more than too many votes. When I listen to all this, I would like to give the constitutional law that no one in Slovenia should get more than 17 seats in the next 25 years. We'll save one car if you get less than 20, and in fact we might start talking and solving some questions. And now I really deserve a reminder from you, chairman, please give it to me. I also expect Mr Jurša to apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u246	Don't worry, Dr. Duck. Let's get back to work. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you wanted a replica, if I'm not mistaken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u247	Yeah, it's true. We want something and we can't. And that is, we would like to reconcile pensions as required by the law of STIZ. And we can't. That's right. Mr. Jursha, it's true. You've got scissors and canvas, so look the pensioners in the face and tell them. Yes, nervous and sad, in fact, because in a way that you have never adopted a state budget before. And what you do for two days is a great shame. And yes, I'm sad, I'm nervous, I want to be different, but you don't understand. I don't know how else to say it. Uncoordinated budget, you can no longer find money with a billion euros to reconcile pensions as required by law, and then beat each other on the chest and explain what you have done for the pensioners. I hope a lot of people are watching this. As I know, the main pensioners are watching this program, so I think it is crystal clear to them who has done something for them in the past, who has done something for them in this government or what this government will provide them with in 2017. This is a lower alignment than it would have been, but now I'm going to add if Desus wasn't in the government. Obviously, because you managed to secure it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u248	Mr Uroš Prikl has the floor, followed by Franz Jurša. Here you go, Mr. Prickl, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I mean, this is getting tragic. If anyone really cared, they would have done more in the past, not that in the last five, six years real pensions had actually fallen, though not nominal. Desus, me personally and my colleagues in the Desus Group don't knock on each other's chests, but one move from the beginning is. In particular, in this harmonisation, yes, mea culpa, we have reached 1.15 and not 1.20, as the Alliance or the Non-Aligned Members propose, and this may indeed be our mistake to go to that ceiling, even though we have reached 1.15% within the framework. Let me point out or point out once again. The government has come up with a proposal for 1 per cent harmonisation. We went to that upper limit, and I've said it a few times, that's not the last thing. We will continue, and if we want decent pensions, not only is it a question and a problem of regular and extraordinary harmonisation, but it is also a problem of formula or calculation. Our final goal is to get decent pensions for all pensioners, and I believe that you will support us in these efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u251	It is proper, and if I have offended Dr. Franz Duck in any way, I apologize deeply to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u253	Thank you very much, sir. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u254	Keep going. Mr. Jože Tanko, you get procedural immediately after [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I must admit that I am quite pleased today with the discussions in which I find that all Members, all Members of Parliament, are in some way also in favour of the retired. In recent years, their question has been neglected too often, and everyone has forgotten them, which can also be seen from the reconciliations of pensions in recent years. Today, we are finally at the point of seeing that everyone recognizes that they have been wronged. If we look at the data, there was no reconciliation of pensions at the time of John Janša in 2012. In 2013 and then in 2014 at the time of the government mag. Alenka Bratušek was harmonised for 1 promil, i.e. 0.1%. In 2015, the amount of Kad contribution to ZPIZ was 19 million for the annual supplement, that is, at the time of the Government of Mira Cerar, in 2016 there was an extraordinary harmonisation of 0,7 % in January and an extraordinary alignment of 0,4 % in October 2016. Regular harmonisation of 1.15% is foreseen in 2017. I can say that in the Desus Group, we would like more to have worked for it, but the fact is that in 2013 it was in the government of mags. Alenke Bratušek would have been this reconciliation because she had all the scepter in her hands, significantly larger. Okay, but let's just say there wasn't a feeling of retirement back then. But given today's debate, I see that this positive feeling among all coalition and opposition parties, which is why I believe that our proposals, which I have presented on behalf of the Desus Group already on Monday, will fall to fertile ground so that in about a month, two, three will be able to take action by the current coalition, the current coalition parties that will address these very issues, which I have been very happy to hear about today, also from Mr Širclja, that is, this injustice that has occurred, which I myself have been talking about on Monday, which has occurred to the pensioners with this freezing of pensions, that these issues and also the problem of the inadequate relationship between the average net pension and the average net salary that will begin to resolve and that we will be able to get some appropriate measures that will lead to the end of this generation's retirement. Regardless of this, I can say that the small misunderstandings, which also arise in the middle, I think that this debate was positive in the sense that these problems of the retired have begun to be discussed, that they have started to talk about the injustices that have occurred to them, that we are creating fertile soils, that these injustices have also been corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, you wanted a procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u257	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. We have been adopting this debate on the law on the implementation of the budget for several hours. The positions are different, the two amendments have been tabled, and I have no feeling that we have a government here to express our views. She booked an hour to discuss the agenda and the amendments and spent five minutes. We have three ministers here, for finance, for justice and for defence, and neither of these ministers is able to comment nor to face or explain anything. Mr Vice-President, I propose that you invite the President of the Government to come here and that the things that are happening here today communicate with the Members of the National Assembly. Apparently, no one knows, doesn't want, or is too much for him to communicate and explain all these things that are opening up here. If the Minister does not feel the need to defend either the budget or the law on the implementation of the budget, then send someone else who feels this need. When she was secretary of state, she fought here for her bosses for all kinds of weights. Today, when she's the boss, she's quiet. And every minister who comes to his agenda is quiet. The Minister of Labour is not here. Thus it is not possible to deal with such laws and amendments as is the case in this reference to the national assembly. The government is in favour of preparing a proposal and defending it, not sitting down and looking at the hour when the time will pass for the matter to be concluded. I propose that you call on government representatives to actively engage in the debate and explain themselves in the face of matters opened by Members. It's not like we're watching this fight that doesn't bring anything. And the government is calm in the ambush, in the shadows. Now I don't know who is more responsible for harmonising coffee or government than the whole or the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Pensions, or Desus, who is responsible for foreign affairs, for Slovenians around the world and the environment. Look, this needs to be explained to people that they know who made it happen. Have these improper ministers, within the government, presented and assured whether this has come about otherwise? I don't know that. But in the arbitration agreement, I'm sure I don't know which variety he's defending. See to it that things are arranged, that they be placed in a place where the right people are responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The Minister of Finance has been notified to the floor immediately for mag. Alenko Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u259	The vote for this amendment will show who's really after the pensioners. By the loss of words, we will then show the vote and people will understand. In 2012, you only reduced pensions in Slovenia to 26,000 pensioners, and in 2013 we returned this. And in 2013 pensions were coordinated in accordance with the ZPIZ law. It was because of the economic situation that the harmonisation was lower. But without action, they coordinated themselves with one billion more revenue without any reduction. You don't give a pensioner 38 cents. 38 cents per pensioner. Is that what you call taking care of pensioners? Really, not paint people, not paint pensioners. And you didn't fight for them. For them, you've picked a lower valorization than you would have been if you hadn't fought anything. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Matthew Vrančnik Erman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to answer Mr Tank's questions that I have answered the present Members who were present in the Chamber all the time at the beginning of the debate on the law on the implementation of the budget and the amendments tabled, as this was the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, you wanted procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask, I have a procedural proposal that the distinguished Minister of Finance has not yet given this answer today, because it is still not clear to Desus who is creating pensions in the Republic of Slovenia. Did Desus create them with his lies or did he create the economy? I would ask the Minister of Finance to finally explain this to Desus. Desus promised thousands of euros of pensions to all pensioners before the elections. You know what I'm gonna say, customer Desus, if I put it in a local way: Desus is lying like a dog flies. I have expressed myself in a local way because they always use it. I would ask the Minister of Finance to explain to Desus who is creating pensions in Slovenia – or Desus with his lies and deception or economy? I'm asking for a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Mr Franz Trček has the floor, two minutes to conclude this debate. Mr. Franz Duck, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. Because I have this time, I don't know why Mr. Han is laughing, but good [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I have already explained the amendment, Mrs Juliana said that she is pleased that we have all started to stand up for the pensioners, and it would probably be a logical conclusion to support our amendment because the pensioners have the slightest bit of money. It's still a little bit of change, I hope that's at least what we agreed on. It started talking about the problems of pensioners. Mrs Juliana calmed down this debate nicely, which was given to her clearly in Desus. But the district minister who deals with social, work, equal opportunities, is from SD, and we're not going to coordinate these transfers, and they're frozen here. The finance minister, who looked as the secretary of state who liked to beat the table, is from, as they like to say, SMC quotas. Here is some shared guilt, such as shared guilt for these certain governments formerly and coalitions that have not dealt with it. By that time in 1996, since I had a good memory, someone was reminding me of what those reductions meant. After another government had done something else, it was recalled, some serious people who had been dealing with pension and reform have been talking about it for 20 years. And we're talking here if I paraphrase Mr. Tank, oh, I don't know, one short or [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] And that's terrible, not just insulting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u266	We have another report. Mr. Joseph Horvath, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I'm a little surprised, and I'm also a little confused about dealing with these amendments. It was usually so that the chairman opened the first amendment, we held a debate, he concluded the debate, then we went to the next amendment. Now we are also talking about pensions in the amendment of colleagues from SDS when we were talking about investments in municipalities. But that's fine. Okay. I will focus on the content of this amendment by colleagues and colleagues from the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament, and I will say that you simply cannot support this amendment, because if anyone, then Slovenian pensioners in the global deserve 7 million more than was presented at the annual level. I believe that pensioners are satisfied people that they are also satisfied with half a handful of ice cream, unverified origins that they get on the moon. But the question that we are dealing with today, and the problem that we are trying to solve, is on the wrong side. Yesterday and in part today, colleagues Zvona and colleagues Ljubo spoke about this. Where do we make our pension money? And if I may walk through history on my own, yes, I remember when Dr. Bayuk's Minister of Finance, unfortunately, was no longer among us, in the 2004-2008 mandate he calculated that the previous LDS government of pensioners at the annual level brought around two and a half pensions. And then, as the colleague had said before, we raised pensions dramatically and coordinated. But it's history. History is also that the so-called state pension has been abolished two or three years ago. You know what it means to farm life, to those on the edge, to those 170, 180 euros? Do you know what it means to them? It's huge. It doesn't mean anything to them today, it means nothing to them today because they don't have it. Yeah, pensions are too low, definitely. Why? Because we simply create too little, too few people work, too few people pay contributions to the pension fund. If we look at Umar's development report 2015 and look at the indicators of Slovenia's development, we see that 4 thousand 288 million euros were paid out of the pension fund in 2014. Of which one third of the state budget. Exactly one third. That's a thousand 606 million euros. Is such a system sustainable? We say, yes, we have a sustainable system out there by 2020. I don't think so. It would be ideal for employees to pay just as much as we need in that month to pay their pension, and so on, people worth it. When I look at the pension table, the structure of pensions, these are the official data of the institution, namely ZPIZ, for example, for the previous year, and I find that 39.5% of pensions were below EUR 500. However, if I take into account in this table that the actual pension granted in proportion to the provisions of the international agreements is not in this table, because this table shows only 527 thousand pensioners and there were 612 thousand pensioners in last year and some extrapolation, then I find that 45% of pensioners have been pensioned under 500 euros. And then I go on to the Ministry's website, which is responsible for social affairs, and not to worry about social finance under Article 2, and I read there that the poverty threshold for a single household in 2015 was EUR 7 000 399, which is EUR 616 per month, then I find that more than 50% of pensioners received a pension under the poverty threshold of EUR 616. And here's the problem, ladies and gentlemen! Now we call it pension reform. Yes, but I say, I do say that we must first make a mental reform, a thinking reform. I am tired of these state-owned enterprises, state-owned banks and state-owned education, but let us not allow private initiative to come to the surface and release potentials that would be good for the entire Slovenian society. Yeah, because they're released by privates, unfortunately outside, in America, Austria, Germany and so on. And we go to school, and we have nothing to do with it. When we make this reform in our heads, then it will be better — not before.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing not, and that's why I'm concluding this item on the agenda. The amendments will be decided in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 10:30 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u269	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order, paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 3, 4 and 16 of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other measures in the public sector under the urgent procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on wage measures and other labour costs for 2017 and other measures in the public sector is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2017-2019. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 23. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with interrupt 7. Point of the agenda, this is by considering the Proposal for a Decree on the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2017. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for State Administrations, Judicial Authorities, Public Institutions, Public Economic Institutions, Public Agencies and Public Funds for 2018. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the State Election Commission for 2017. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 7. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 7. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 7. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft decree on the real estate management plan for the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the proposal for the Decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on the Real Estate Management Plan for the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the proposal for the Decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 6. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for the 2018 Anti-Corruption Commission. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. There are 84 Members and Members present and 54 votes in favour, 6 against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for amending the budget. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 29. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for amending the budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending budget. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving to budget user 1611, Ministry of Finance. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratušek for the Sub-programme Payment of Rights. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u270	Thank you very much. We will support this amendment and it is €40 million to ensure full regression for all pensioners. Now it will be the end of beauty and demagogies, but now the vote for or against will show how much it is for the pensioners. So absolutely is our vote for.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u271	We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present and 20 votes against 54. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 1811, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the United Left Group to the development cooperation and international assistance sub-programme. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. There were 8 votes in favour and 72 votes in favour. [[The vote was 8.]] [[There were 72 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a budget user in 1912, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Operation of the system of protection, rescue and assistance. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u272	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Just for a little while about this amendment. With this amendment, we want to devote more money to firefighters and civil protection. We originally submitted it for both budgets, for 2017 and 2018. For 2018, the government partly took it into account and committed 2 million more and for 2017 it did not. So the funds for 2017 remain 5 million below the spending level for this year. Here I call for us to do the same as we did in 2018 to devote an additional 2 million. This is also the case with our amendment for firefighters and civil protection in 2017, because they will otherwise be hit by a 5 millionth cut in the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u273	We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. There were 14 votes in favour and 68 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[68 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2130, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under number one. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will, of course, support this amendment. Why? Because we respect the Slovenian Constitution. Yes, we respect the Slovenian Constitution. Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. Legal means that laws must be respected. The government made a decision, consciously decided not to respect the laws. Specifically. The government has decided not to comply with the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. We want to prevent this and we want to force the Government and remind it that there is a need to respect the Constitution and laws in this country. The Government deliberately does not provide sufficient resources for 2017 to enable the Development Support Act to be implemented to the Pomur region. There are about 3.4 million euros understated. In the planning itself, the Government does not provide sufficient resources, not for this year and not for the following year. In 2009, the Law on Development Support for the Pomurska Region was adopted, thank God. The Competitiveness Promotion Programme provided for €33 million in this Act. By 2015, some 22 million euros had been realised. The remaining EUR 11 million, which is why, at the initiative of the Pomuri Members of the Law on Development Support to the Pomuri Region, it has been extended, if I may say so, to 2016 and 2017. But the government doesn't provide money. And Pomurje is beaten twice. First of all, he's got a marriage, and he doesn't get the money. Secondly, because it has a law, it does not receive funding from other sources for the development of the region. Do you imagine that? The pomur region got a shush in its head instead of money, as it was called at home. And we will no longer look at it, we will not allow it, because this government obviously thinks that Slovenia is just around Ljubljana. Slovenia is also a Pomurje, which is also the extreme west, is also the extreme south and the extreme east. We are going to rumble here every day and remind the government every day that it does not respect the Constitution — because this is not the first time — and that it does not respect the laws. The government does not respect the Law on Development Support to the Pomurski region. The government then explains why it does not support this amendment, writes that the financial year is not yet over and that it can be, I read between the lines, this year's realization is greater. I want to remind the government to see if it can sum up the amounts under the signed contracts signed by the Government. Humiliating to the Eastern – Pomursk regions.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u275	We're voting. 81 Members and Members are present. 34 were voted against and 46 were voted against. (There were 34 votes in favour.)(against 46.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under number 2. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. There were 29 votes in favour, 48 against. (For the vote was 29.)(against 48.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme under number 3. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. There were 24 votes in favour and 52 against. (For the vote was 24.)(against 52.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Cemetery War subroutine. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present. There were 22 votes in favour and 55 against. (For the vote was 22.)(against 55.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2330, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme for the Management of Agricultural Lands under number 1. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. There were 24 votes in favour, 54 against. (For the vote was 24.)(against 54.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme for the Management of Agricultural Lands under number 2. We're voting. 84 Members and Members are present. There were 24 votes in favour and 52 against. (For the vote was 24.)(against 52.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431, Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratušek to the sub-programme Investment maintenance and construction of state roads under number 1. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 22 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratušek to the sub-programme Investment maintenance and construction of state roads under number 2. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 52. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratušek to the sub-programme Investment maintenance and construction of state roads under number 3. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 52. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under number 4. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the basis of an expert review of needs and urgency on the main and regional road network in the Republic of Slovenia, we have chosen the most urgent priorities that are necessary for an immediate start or for a more active continuation of activities in the resolution of certain poor road infrastructure. Thus we propose a few more than 17 million additional funds for the maintenance and construction of state roads, that is to say regional and main roads in various areas in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm just going to list some of the most important sections that are in this priority emergency selection. Sevnica-Planina section, EUR 400,000. Down – Ponikva – Long Gora amounting to EUR 600,000. The rehabilitation of the beach in Solčava amounting to 500 000 euros. The Luče company is worth 200 000 euros. Cycling routes to the Sava region amounting to EUR 300,000. The completion of all crossings in a grief ring amounting to EUR 200 000 and then an important project, reconstruction of the Polzela–Velje regional road amounting to a million and a half. We know that when the third development axis is built, this will be a replacement transport connection of Velenje to the A1 motorway and this road will be extremely burdened at the time of construction. This road, which is now in very poor condition, must be arranged in advance to be able to transport at the time of construction the remaining traffic and also the traffic that will be needed for the construction time itself. On the Škofljica–Kočevje route, where it is a fairly long section, we know that there are a lot of settlements on this section where the limits are 50 kilometres per hour and, of course, there is a need to increase the speed of reconstruction in these settlements, to rebuild at least 70 kilometers per hour, or to save the increased speed by the construction of railways such as Velika Lašče, Ribnica and Kočevje. Then there is the project of regulating the road network in Žuzemberk and also within 7 kilometres of the construction of Jurovski Dol-Lenart of 4 million, so we propose [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u277	Ms Anita Kolesh has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u278	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that I can also say on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues from the SMC that this amendment is totally unnecessary, at least in the part that I know very well, it is the Mountain-Sevenka road. Funds are provided for this road. We'd have started with parts if everything went well with the contractors. It's just a populism maneuver like this. I am also surprised that this is a road, which is also part of the plan of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is the Dole-Ponikva. The work is very far away in the sense that they need certain activities, and far from such activities that only by means of means could this road be at a stage that would tell them that it is closing. Not far. So much to explain the part that concerns me, because, of course, in the next two or three months, I will be on all social networks like the part that I am on my road, and I am very involved in these roads. And thank the Minister very much for him, too. Probably just another one, you'll tell the others so much to tell you what this amendment is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u279	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm opening the application. I'm asking you to sign up. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, chairman. Of course, I will not agree with the implementation of the coalition MP before me that all that has been said is irrelevant and unnecessary. In principle, in the United Left, and I am not alone or we are not inclined to make such political points on some of the regions, although I could myself point out an amendment where I would read three hours about roads and cycling routes about railway infrastructure. I would like to say that we will not come to the Guinness Book of Records in completing the railway connection against Kočev and Ribnica, which would relieve traffic on that road. However, I cannot vote against this, but I will abstain, because this has mainly been indicated where the SDS has a strong local base. I have no objection to this, of course, legally, legitimately in the parliamentary procedure. Even if I were to propose this set, it would be very long for me, because up to three of them would have stood here, the coalition would have voted it out. However, whether we love it or not, we will need something called a gas cent if we want to have roads arranged, respected, safe, because we know that we are essentially falling on road safety, so statistics show us that I am not talking about rail connections at all. And I hope, a coalition that is so vehement to the opposition that it will finally come out with these programs, with these legal acts. I'll hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u281	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u282	Thank you very much. If Mrs Kolesh hadn't called and I can't talk to her right now, I have to tell you, I'd be quiet. So, look, she justified, I drive these roads every day or very often, she justified that Sevnica-Planina and the Down-Ponika-Long Gora, that's right there between her and me, Šentjur near Celje, to do all that if something hadn't been done with the performers. We're in 2016? We are talking about the 2017 budget. These are plans and 2017 should start working. But since it was supposed to be sprayed on some of the operators for these roads, the lady is against other roads. Let's look at them: Down-Dolga-Dolce. Twenty years, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years these people have been working for the road. But you're against it. Plaza Solchava, you're against it. Bridge to Hudinya in Celje, I was there at home, you're against. Bridge over Bolska, you're against. Come for the walk of the Grief, you're against. Bridge across the Pako River, you're against it. The Savinja Bridge in Letus, you're against it. I'm running out of time, 39 seconds, but I still have half a page to count. All of this is part of an amendment. Since it has been injected with operators three kilometres of one road, the lady and SMC are now against all of this. I'll see you at the next election without me. We will support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u283	Is there anyone else who can explain his voice in his own name? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u284	Thank you so much for saying that. Now we've reached these traffic amendments. In this package there are also several amendments related to the main road between Škofljica and the border crossing of Petrina. In addition to the three bypasses of the three largest and most problematic settlements other than Škofljica, there are also some updates on this main road. Now the projects are standing. That's more than obvious. The government has written on all of our amendments that the amendment is technically feasible. Even the one whom the lady had previously said could not be done. The Government has written in its opinion, in its reply in explanation that the amendments are technically feasible, which means that all project, ownership and other grounds for initiating procedures on these sections are given. I see no reasonable reason to oppose such amendments because they are balanced and only these amendments do so to transfer funds from non-investment to investment expenditure. And to oppose increased investment is something that I think is the biggest problem. But the problem is that if one thing is not recorded in the budget, that is to say, it is not in, it is not being implemented. We also had on these sections and also on the railway track cases when the amendment did not support itself and it was said that this would be resolved in a different way. There is no other way to deal with this problem in a regulated country. The budget item must be open. I suggest that you also support all these traffic amendments because there are no valid reasons to drive an hour and a half from one part of Slovenia, which is about 50 kilometers from Ljubljana. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u285	Mr Marijan Pojbič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u286	Dear Mr. President, it's incredible. I have repeated this many times in this national assembly, and above all I repeat it — why? What I heard from the lady who discussed on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group or Mira Cerar, as it is already called, is unacceptable, as no man at all knows. Madam, I am sure that he knows perhaps only one narrow circle of Ljubljana and its surroundings, but certainly not all the sections that are written in this amendment. If I knew these sections, this environment, I'd know how problematic the situation on these sections is. And it's amazing that everyone can sit in this national council. Anyone who comes to mind if it's in the right political option, except those who are elected because people believe it. Look at how interesting the story is, how people laugh in this House. Those who have come to Parliament without a programme, without anything else, only because someone has stood behind them that they are today an integral part of this national assembly. And they showed their responsibility and debate here today by explaining their voice, who and what they support in the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment, tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, tells and draws attention to all the key problems it can tackle in one amendment that need to be addressed. And without any burden, the lady makes it very clear that this is not necessary. A party allowing this to hold such a debate in the National Assembly on behalf of a party has nothing to look for in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u287	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 22 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under number 5. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u288	Dear Members and Members! I really want to support this amendment, but it's all the roads we've been talking about. So we can have the debate again. There is no problem because before, MEPs were talking about another amendment, which was 930 000 euros and with these 930 thousand euros, it is also impossible to build the road that SMC was talking about. So the debate was a little too fast. All I want to say is that I absolutely support this amendment of our colleagues from the SDS, which foresees a series of these sections of roads and bridges, because I think road infrastructure is one of the important things in this country and that it can contribute significantly to economic development. So let's say that the previous vote on the previous amendment was a dry exercise, but now it's really going and you have the opportunity to confirm it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u289	The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u290	Thank you for your word. I have to take this because Comrade Kordish criticized me for not saying anything before. This is how we work in our parliamentary group, democratically. At the gas station, we don't mean that you're going to be financing six-passenger cars so that you can get home early from those night meetings, but that this money is going to be used to develop public passenger traffic, in particular a network of so-called rail traffic, which will then be connected to the local bus and van network, including the call. We used to talk about pensions. You go over the weekend, I agree with Pojbiæ here, don't laugh at him, tell him a lot of smart things, I don't know, with Koroška to take us to the spa, and then drive to the children in Ljubljana, if you're a midwife. Maybe you'll come Tuesday. Or my mother, when I sit at these meetings, when she has to come from the White Land to Maribor. But as I said before, in the United Left we expect these things to be resolved, I will use the most popular word SMC, "systemic". Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u291	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 24 votes for and 51 against. (For the vote was 24.)(against 51.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under number 6. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 24 votes for and 51 against. (For the vote was 24.)(against 51.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under number 7. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 24 votes for and 51 against. (For the vote was 24.)(against 51.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads under number 8. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 24 votes for and 51 against. (For the vote was 24.)(against 51.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2550, Ministry of Environment and Space. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Water Management sub-programme. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u292	Thank you for your word, Madam President. This is an amendment that is the result of the long-standing neglect of this area. In fact, the amendment follows all the debates in this National Assembly, as well as all the debates on the working bodies of this National Assembly, where all Members in this National Assembly agree that this area is financially malnourished. It is also agreed by the Authority for Protection and Rescue, the Slovenian Directorate for Water, the mayors agree, all economic enterprises in the Republic of Slovenia agree and have therefore addressed an open letter to the Government and the Prime Minister of the Government in this area in the previous week. In 2014, the government committed itself to increasing resources in the area of maintenance of watercourses and also to remedy the consequences of previous natural disasters. In these two budgets, it has happened that these items not only remain at the same value, but are even falling compared to previous years. In the area of maintenance of watercourses, items are reduced from the previous 6-8 million to the value of 3 million 200. In the area of remedying consequences, however, there is much more. It is said that this National Assembly speaks something when it is necessary to ensure this in the budgets, and we move around and conclude quite differently, I would say, deals. Given that there are many warnings and many documents adopted by the National Assembly, which are also accepted by those directly involved in this area, that, after all, the Ministry warns that these funds are insufficient, it will take responsibility at the end of the phase for the further damage that will occur in this area, most likely already this year or the second year of spring when the floods occur, this responsibility will be assumed by the National Assembly. And the government. The government has adopted an action plan, the government has committed itself to increasing the budget lines in these areas. All of us in this National Assembly understood that this was probably not feasible in the budgets for 2015 and 2016, but that in the budgets for 2017 and 2018 these items do not remain the same, but even fall, in my opinion it is unacceptable. Given that all the Members on all the committees have ensured that this will change, that in those budgets on which you have an impact you will change, I appeal to you to support these amendments. This is a modest amount of 2 million 500, which is intended for additional water management programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u293	The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u294	Dear Members, honourable Members! In particular, I would like to remind Members and Members of the National Assembly of Drava of the catastrophic consequences of the Drava River floods five years ago, when I think that we have also had much debate in the National Assembly and even two urgent meetings of the Committee on the Environment and Space on the theme of the rehabilitation of the Drava River flood, also related to compensation actions against the Republic of Austria. Somehow we were all aware together, I remember the representatives of the coalition parties of the National Assembly that the water management situation was not at a good level. On the other hand, as a country, we have not been able to help those affected by these floods of the Drava River. And we can talk everything from Dravograd, Duplek, Maribor, Ptuj, Markovac, Zavrić and we could list, Gorišnica and further to Croatia. All of this is essentially the process of some international process, some justice against the Republic of Austria. Everyone in the local community is also talking to me and telling me that if the state does not take care of the prevention, the means for curating will be so much more expensive and expensive. That is why this amendment is particularly appropriate and I support it. Above all, I want all of you who represent the flood area along the Drava River to remember where you come from and support this amendment, because the fact is that we have not taken sufficient care of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u295	Mr Jan Mahnic has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! The larger floods we had in Slovenia were in 2007, 2010 and 2014. In all three years, we felt them in the Poljanska and Sevska valleys. In 2014, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, both in the parliamentary question and in the public statements, promised to devote as much resources as possible to remedy the situation and to avoid any future consequences. But unfortunately, the funds are still falling. This amendment, proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, brings additional resources to remedy the situation as it has already been, and to avoid any similar catastrophic consequences as we have seen in 2007, 2010 and 2014. I believe that you have so much sympathy for people, so much compassion for fellow citizens, that this amendment will be supported, so that I can only explain to myself in one way that the Polish Valley is not politically appropriate to get this money, that a lot of people want to flood it. Why? In 2014 and 2015, last year, when we had a referendum on ZZD, 50% voter participation, 83% of the people opposed. Since 2006, the Slovenian Democratic Party has been leading the Polish Valley, receiving around 80% of the votes in each election. This is the only way I can explain to myself that you don't give money to recover the situation in the valley of Poland. Because it's politically inappropriate for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u297	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. I've got another problem. What has been said is true and I would like to support these amendments if we did not take it from Culture and civil society. I'd be happy to support them if we took them off the link lines and then we'd put them on the civilian side of the MORS and for this sort of thing. But since they're already taking that change that culture gets, I'm afraid I can't support it. I hope, however, that in any future amendment somewhere else it will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u299	We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 25 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Housing activity. The explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation shall be given to Luka Mesec
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. This amendment would provide €3 million more for housing activities in 2017. Why? In the budgets for 2017 and 2018, housing activity has been most subsidised in recent years. The government we asked to increase funds has responded that malnutrition is not visible and that it does not understand why it would increase funds in this item. Against this I must strongly protest, because, look, in Slovenia we have entire generations, generations of young people who are practically unable to access apartments. We do not have a public housing fund, as everything has been privatised or granted to older generations, credits for the purchase of apartments are said to be worn at home. If a young person or a young couple or a young family wants to buy an apartment in Ljubljana or another urban center, they usually have to be credited for 20, 25, 30 years. Which means you're practically a debt slave for your entire life. Therefore, we simply do not see another solution in the United Left, as if the State's spending on public housing funds starts to strengthen in order to ensure that young generations who do not have their own apartments and cannot access them due to expensive retail credits, access to housing so that they can manage their lives, families and some basic stability. If we already have pen services, at least we need to make sure that other living conditions are as stable as possible. At the moment, we have entire generations who are in a perennial employment relationship, who are renting apartments and who have no chance of having any stable life on any basis, and so don't be surprised that more and more young people are simply deciding to live at home with their parents, which is not perspective or for them, let alone for society. That's why I'm putting my heart at your fingertips so we can raise funds for housing. 3 million for this purpose is not much, we would need a lot more, but it will be at least some sign that we started moving things in the right direction. In the United Left we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u301	Mr Andrej Chuš has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u302	Thank you very much. I might say in explanation of the vote that the law of Jazbinš, the so-called housing law, was an express product of socialism, which was decided at the last reading of the law on the home labour body at the time by the amendment of Mr Potrč. I agree that this law has led to a marked antisocial action in Slovenia by the National Assembly, as well as an intervention on the housing and real estate market. However, somehow I would like to say that I cannot agree with the purpose of this law, because on the one hand we are addressing young people to state socialism, which we see in Venezuela that is not working well, and on the other hand, I say that in the past, in the National Assembly, successful or good intentions have already been proposed to change the situation in the area of youth empowerment. I say in particular that they are placed on the market of dwellings owned by the State and banks that are empty. I think that would be the right thing to do. On the other hand, the State should provide a guarantee scheme for young people to be included in the purchase of housing. This is the right measure that will give young people some responsibility. On the other hand, in 2016 we are talking about some cooperatives, but I think we are going back in time, not further, although I believe that the United Left has good intentions in the field of youth and that it wants to provide some other programmes. It is a fact, however, that in 2016 we cannot take the resources of the military, because in fact we are cutting our own sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u303	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u304	Thank you for your word. My friend Chusch must have had some good Venezuelan rum. Many in this country were saying, "Slovenia, little Switzerland." My dears, some of my best students, as well as the people from the Ministry, have recently held a debate at the Faculty of Architecture in Ljubljana on housing cooperatives. In Switzerland, 20% of the housing fund is a cooperative fund. Prices in housing cooperatives or rents, you also have such housing cooperatives when you never own your square meter, if your family shrinks, say kids move away, want to go to their own, you go from a four-bedroom where at least three of them have to live, you go to another apartment. Of course, this is a very strange logic for some of Slovenia, but it is a very common practice. Housing cooperatives, which are successfully operational, have housing cooperatives in Italy, in Spain. Go to Vienna and learn. Indeed, these were the times of the Red Danube during the wars, when social democracy was still a social democracy, not what it is today. Now, my dears, if you're defending capitalism like this, fuck, let's learn a little bit about all the things of capitalism. At the same time, we adopted the NSP with some housing policy rather unbinding. At the same time, we have a secretary at the government in Mr Cerar's office who is supposed to be involved in the partnership. At the same time, the government has promised to go into these forms of dealing with housing issues not only for young people. At the same time, if a young colleague wants to work as a client to attract young people, let him get some education. Of course I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u305	Procedurally, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u306	Yes, of course I have to respond to the essence of this soft accusation. The fact is, somehow Martin's is behind us and we're at work, so we can't afford to drink, and Martin's is so on Ptuj and Maribor. I would like to say, however, that I would warn that the model of Venezuela cannot be portrayed as successful in Slovenia. Just yesterday, in the National Assembly, I hosted a delegation of five citizens and citizens of Slovenia who managed to flee Venezuela and said that the average wage in Venezuela was 30 euros. So I believe that some system of cooperatives and equality in poverty in Venezuela can be established, but that Slovenia is not a country that we would like to make for Venezuela. So, Mr President of the National Assembly, I appeal to you to warn your respectable colleague, Trčko, whom I personally very much respect, that somehow he forgets Venezuela and begins to think about Slovenia in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u307	I'm going to answer that procedural question first. The first person to mention Venezuela in this national council was you. At this point. And now this debate has passed through all the frameworks of this. Not nearly any more explanation for the voice, there are speeches, all that shouldn't be. I ask that we not proceed with procedural procedures now, but that we continue with what we are actually doing. Let me explain my voice. If it is your voice, explain your voice. All you care about is yours and nobody else's. This is intended to explain the voice. It is, however, procedurally intended for procedural proposals to contribute to the management of the sitting itself. But if you start the case on your own, then you want to have procedural protection, and that's not even fair. No, it's not. One and the other are unacceptable. From here on, we are talking about our vote or the vote of our Group of Members. This is the only explanation for the vote. Gradually, Dr. Franz Runczek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. I fully agree with you, President. Yesterday, too, you abused procedure as a Member when you did not preside. That was some first piece of information when I came to Slovenia, and I set up a meeting. It's not funny, no. My procedural proposal is to stick to what you just explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u309	Let's vote. There were 83 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against and 73 votes against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 73.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u310	Thank you for your word, Madam President. This is an amendment that affects an area similar to our first amendment. To the water area. By being able to talk about dry exercise in the previous case, as previously said. But in this case, it's a more serious matter. This is an increase in the programme to address the consequences of natural disasters, and this is an area already affected by floods and other disasters, and this is a solution to these disasters. In the event of a flood, as I said, this is a matter for discussion several times in this National Assembly, and you are all somehow committed to the need to settle this, so that funds in this area need to be increased when we come to the adoption of the budget, but there is no hearing. This isn't about compassion or some other feeling in these cases when we're dealing with these areas, but it's about some healthy economy within the state budget. As we are discussing, you are all aware that in these areas already affected by a natural disaster, in particular by floods, any further major event in this direction means a substantial, substantial increase in damage and thus uneconomic behaviour from the point of view of the State, the Ministry or anyone. When we discuss it in the National Assembly, when we discuss it at emergency and other committee meetings, you all agree. But when we come to the case of the realization of these commitments, you don't know what you're talking about. Again, I would like to point out that a plan has been adopted that deals with the measures to be taken in this area, in order to avoid that these damages continue to increase and that, in fact, there is an increasing impact not only on rivers and streams, but also on the state budget. When natural disasters or floods arise, however, it is never a problem for millions and millions to invest in these matters. I expect that one day some common sense will prevail in this national council and that we will seriously decide that certain flood rehabilitations should be arranged to avoid a significantly higher cost at one of the next high waters. When we talk normally, I'll tell you again, on the boards, you all understand that, you all support that. When it comes to supporting this and giving Ars a chance and other services involved, put your head away and think in a completely different way. I think it is inconvenient for the country and also for the state budget not to say anything worse. So please, for once, that you think I will say in a healthy farm logic and economically in case we adopt the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u311	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 51. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2551, Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Water Management sub-programme. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With this amendment, we want to provide 500 000 euros for the repair of the grip and damage that occurred in the floods in Notranj, Lake Cerknica. In part, rehabilitation was done, partly not, especially those waters, rivers and streams that flow into Lake Cerknica. In 2014, there were major floods, people were affected, property was affected, and in any case, or, God forbid, one more such floods or such stings would have happened, or the damage would probably have been even greater and people would have been affected as well. That is why we propose to ensure not much, 500 000 euros. I don't think there would be any problems if we took this money under the general public service policy and the common administrative service. Such a shortage of services would certainly have borne the brunt of these services, there would have been no problem, the state would have continued to operate, and this money would have, in particular, allowed greater security for people and even greater security for their property in Notranjska. That is why I appeal to you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u313	We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 52. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratušek for the Employment Initiative sub-programme. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 51. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Social Protection Programme sub-programme. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u314	Thank you for your word, chairman. To see that in the United Left we read the amendments in substance. This is an amendment that takes from an item that I have to say that we do not have problems in the United Left and is committed to completing the home of older citizens in Osilnica. The development of demographically and otherwise threatened areas is not about opening an ATM there, because in what decade we will be a cashless company, please colleague Mahnic not to gloat, but it is aimed at some more serious policies and this amendment aims and goes in this direction, so we will support it in the United Left. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u315	There are 80 Members and Members present. There were 29 votes in favour, 48 against. (For the vote was 29.)(against 48.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2613, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Editation and Control in the Work Area. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u316	Thank you for saying that again. With this amendment, we are increasing the amount of €500,000 for the work of the Labour Inspectorate. Over the last eight years, the number of work inspectors has decreased from 88 to 77, the number of business operators on the other hand has increased by 40,000 and is now over 200,000. So we have 77 inspectors who are supposed to control more than 200,000 business entities operating in this country. The number of infringements of labour law is increasing every year. Last year alone, these 77 inspectors experienced 30 000 violations of labour law. It is said that workers are being bullied, unpaid salaries, violations of labour rights. In order to improve their work, as I stress, 77 people cannot effectively control 200 000 business entities, we propose that the funds on this item be increased by EUR 500 000. However, we take from the heading Financial Administration, which increases by 3 million and a half this year, and we believe that there are no substantive reasons for such an increase, so there will be no harm if part of this money is transferred to a labour inspection, which in our firm belief would improve the protection of labour law in us and the overall level of employees' rights. In the United Left, we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u317	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u318	Thank you for your word. You have probably forgotten that in this reference to the National Assembly we had an amendment because we did – what? The amendment of the law, because we gave the biggest bastards who are doing what Luke was talking about, a three-year ban on their activities in the same area. My basic proposal has been five years, as it has been arranged in Austria, but we in the Legislative and Legal Service have said that this is not possible for even some legal-formal sausage. At that time, the coalition proposed one year, and this was one of the few amendments, where I somehow managed to convince the coalition that we voted a three-year penalty if I put it that way. The task of the National Assembly is also to do so, and my colleague Krajnc is very sad to see you cringe because you are from Maribor, where a lot of such stories are happening, the task of the National Assembly is also to monitor and watch the implementation of legislation. With the number of inspectors we have, this is not carried out as was the purpose of the law we have amended. In this light too, any responsible or responsible Member or Member would support this amendment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u319	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u320	I understand the performances of each individual, President, I understand that we all want to be attractive, but I would like you to warn Mr Franz Duck to concentrate on his thinking on what he will say and to slowly leave individual colleagues in the hall, even if they smile because he offends us with this. He wants to show the public that we're laughing, and he, who came to work today by accident after a few days, is working here in blue. Franc, I'd like to ask Jeanne, before Krajnc, before me, I don't want the regime, I don't want the regime, at least for you, but sometimes there was a reason for us to laugh, and I'm asking that you, the President, protect us, too, in this case, because this is going a little over.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u321	There's a lot going on in this session. Especially at those points when you start to explain your voice, no one really cares about themselves. However, I would really like to ask that we stop such insults, even at a personal level, because they do not lead to, for the first time, a good atmosphere in Parliament, for the second time, the reputation of Parliament. It means, if you can insult each other in Parliament, it can most likely mean that we are some example, meaning that this is a completely admissible matter in society. So I would appeal at this point forward without just exposing him, because many others have tried to do so. Maybe there's an eloquence here and a frequency of voice so much higher that it's more noticeable. I wouldn't expose anyone, but I would really ask you to concentrate from here on out on your own. If he really has to explain, let him explain his voice and not justify what others have ever done. Mostly my voice. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u322	Thank you for your word. For the first time, when I explain my voice, my colleagues growl like monkeys, and it bothers me to explain my voice. Pika. Secondly, I did not accidentally come to the checkout, but I spent three days with a colleague of the SDS Pogačnik and a colleague of Kamal on COSAC, where I represented Slovenia quite differently, as represented by the president of the country, who comes from the SDS and often embarrasses us. I don't have time to explain now what topics we have discussed there, just briefly, the issue of the Energy Union, the issue of the TTIP, which touches on serious constitutional issues, the issue of the refugee crisis, the issue of the more serious and greater role of the National Assembly in decision-making processes within the European Union and more. I've been working all day, watching what you're doing at the meeting, and I was with Mr Grims on Friday at the Energy Forum of the Central European Initiative, where I also represented Slovenia. I drove for five hours in the rain, after the storms with the driver in Maribor, on Saturday I repacked, on Sunday I went on a run. Minimumly, what I expect is for my colleague Han to apologize to me, although I understand that he is tired after this budget meeting, which you have mainly cooked in the coalition, with your literal incompetence. If you're negotiating for nine months, damn it, after three months, the President of the Government has to replace the negotiator. And the negotiator's still a little blousey, and I can't say anything else, after the United States of America. And that's not funny and stop snarling. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u323	Now, here's the thing. Can we please stop at this point? You have all said your words, the reminders do not help you at any time, nor will they help you, but let us concentrate on what is the subject of today's session. Today's session is dedicated to adopting this budget or voting on it because we have to decide on it. If we're just talking to procedurals, we can't make decisions. An explanation? Procedural? I'm stalling so you don't break up. Mag. Matthew Tonin has a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u324	President, I would like to make a procedural proposal and I would like to ask if you would put it to the vote, which is that today the concentration has dropped strongly, so I propose that we proceed with the vote tomorrow from 10 a.m. on. Nothing will be lost, nothing will be meant for the budget, but I think today, practically at this late hour, it makes no sense at this relaxed concentration, so I would ask you to put to the vote a procedural proposal to continue voting at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u325	I think that given that we have completed this point, as far as the debate is concerned, and that it has been planned to complete the budget in these two days and we have always done it and we have come so far, I think we can get to the end. I would therefore not give your procedural opinion unless it is a terrible desire to vote on this matter. Let's just say I rejected this motion of procedure. I will not put this procedural proposal to the vote at this point. Procedurally, Mr. Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u326	Thank you, Mr. President. Now it may not be very procedural, but Dr. Trček said, the president of the state coming out of SDS, the troupe of afne around the world. I would ask that you or someone else remind me of when Mr Borut Pahor has crossed over to the Slovenian Democratic Party. He said he was coming out of SDS, so somebody reminds me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u327	Well, if he said it, he was wrong. There's no more procedural. We're voting on the amendment. It's normal, because I said it's not. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It was 25 votes against 48. [[The vote was 25.]] [[There were 48 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2711, Ministry of Health. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Investment Investment Sub-programme at the secondary and tertiary level. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present. There were 24 votes in favour and 51 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[There were 51 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3330, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the implementation of primary school programmes. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Chairman. I hope it's not gonna be the problem this place is dealing with. It is the municipality of Mirna Pec. But I think it's very important what's going on. It's about completing primary school. Why is the matter so important? Because it is not about the funds that this school would need for a new one, but it is about the funds in the budget that were promised in the original budget. And budgeted then. The municipality started in cooperation with the Ministry with the project as a co-funder, as it also provided adequate funds for its part. And look at the position we're now leaving the local community. Not only did we take their averages. We promise or place something in the budget, and then next year we decide not to give it away. What should this local community, which has already started projects, now do with some signatures of contracts? Who's going to be responsible for the pens that are going to be created? The money was promised and is now transferred to 2018. What is happening to the 2018 budget, I think that everyone in this Chamber is clear. There'll be no misunderstanding. It shall be taken from an appropriate heading. If the situation in the country is what we have heard today, the protocol is the one that actually needs the least. It is likely that everyone in this hall or outside dealt with at least some form of organization, including the protocol. And here's the power to save a lot of money. It's also a lot of power to waste. However, it depends on each individual how a project is undertaken. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support these fights with €400,000 in the form of an amendment. Of course, I must not call, but I hope that at least some sense will prevail in this room today and that it will not work if you are proud to get it on your nose. Isn't that right, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u329	We're voting. 81 Members and Members were present and 28, 47 were against them. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340, Ministry of Culture. We decide on the amendment of the Group Joint Left to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archiving and librarian activity. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 9,67 were against them. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to budget user 4215, County Court in Celje. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. There were 72 Members and Members present and 11, 47 were against them. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4216, Koper District Court. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against and 55 against. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4217, District Court in Kranj. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present and 3,55 were against them. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4219, Maribor District Court. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. 73 Members and Members were present and 6, 54 were against them. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4220, District Court in Murski Sobota. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, with four votes against, 55 votes against. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4221, District Court in Novi Gorica. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 5 votes against 56. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4222, New Town District Court. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. 73 Members and Members were present and 4 were voted against. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4223, District Court in Krske. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. 74 Members and Members were present and 3 were voted against. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're transferring to budget user 4224, District Court on Ptuj. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with a vote of 4 to 56. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4225, District Court in Slovenj Gradec. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme – Support activities. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 and against 57. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 4230, District Court in Ljubljana. We decide on the amendment of the Ambassadors Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenke Bratušek for the Alternative Dispute Resolution Sub-programme — Support activities We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 and against 56. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending the budget as a whole. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u330	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We have been monitoring this agony for the consideration of the budget documents for the years 2017 and 2018 for two days. Unfortunately, we note that, in fact, she did not even respond to all these dilemmas and concerns expressed in the debates. When she did, she did not respond properly. When we discussed the amendments, there was no competent minister to defend or challenge them. Now that we have practical explanations of vote in the budgets, the government is almost entirely occupied, several ministers and other senior officials. Missed completely. When you need a government official, a minister to defend a government proposal, he's not, when there's nothing he can do, and this is now, when the amendments are being discussed, almost complete occupation. Also, what happened in the consideration of the budget package, that the Government did not submit a coordinated proposal with the unions, and we are now in a situation where we have a fictional budget, the budget was fictional at the time of the submission, and then you overcame it by some vote in the National Assembly or in the College. Now it's happening again. There are no reasons, no arguments are sufficient, no concerns stop the coalition, nor do they force it to think about anything, so, Mr President, I announce the obstruction of the Group of Members in all the votes still connected with this item of the agenda, in all the votes relating to the 4th item of the agenda and in all the votes relating to the 16th item of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u331	We decide on the specific part of the draft amending budget as a whole. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u332	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the United Left, we cannot support the budget. We cannot support it because it remains within the neo-liberal framework of previous budgets. In fact, it is not a programme budget, as set out in the coalition agreement, but it is an accounting budget. Some copies of previous budgets are being copied over the next two years and the main errors of previous governments are being copied. On the income side, this means too low taxes on capital, property and the highest wage, and on the expenditure side this means continuing cuts where they are least needed, as in the social sector, the public sector, development. What should we do to support him in the United Left? In the debate, we have repeatedly pointed out the greatest shortcomings of this budget. We have the wealth and capital that are among the least taxed in Europe. We are both on the tail of European countries. With capital, we are in the last place and it would be necessary to raise capital taxes, especially on profit taxes, at least on the European average. If only on the European average were raised, this would give us an additional EUR 100 million on the revenue side of the budget. With the property tax, we have a property tax that still shows nothing on the item. It is said that no euro is collected from real estate taxes, so that we also have people in this country who have 500 properties and more. Therefore, we would urgently need a social tax on real estate, which this government has moved beyond the scope of this mandate, to say somewhere after 2019, if ever. You even went in the opposite direction for the highest income. That is, from the social fairer tax we have had, you have given the best paid in this country, including us in this room, an 80 million heavy tax present. On the other hand, this means that there is no room or room for public sector salaries, which is why you have become involved with the unions, that there is no room for coordination of pensions, which leaves the lowest or guaranteed pension for 40 years of full-time workers with EUR 444, that there is no room for coordination of children's certificates, that there is no room for state scholarships, that there is no room for parental compensation, that there is no room for unemployment compensation, that there is no room for minimum income, that there is no room for second track, that there is no room for development projects and so on. Money is running out everywhere because you're leading a permissive policy towards taxation of capital and property. And this is the main reason that we cannot support this budget because it is unsocial and underdeveloped, while permissive to the rich and capital. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u333	Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats cannot support the Draft Amendments to the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017. More precisely, we will vote against it. We've been with quite a few state budgets. This one is the worst prepared, this one has the most unknown and this one has the most fictional items. The wages in the public sector are not defined, the question is, the big question is, if we are to draw on as much European funds as is planned here on the revenue side in this draft budget, we are simply not doing good work here again. We are disappointed that the government, so-called mini-tax reform, has shown, is now clearly shown in the figures that the country has increased its greed by 59 million, in particular by imposing higher taxes on the Slovenian economy, which allows new jobs, which also allows for the charging of health and pension bills. And again and again, but not for the last time, this budget actually contributes to the illegal state, is an ecclatic violation of the laws, so it does not respect the Slovenian Constitution, more precisely Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. The government and coalition say it is not true that Slovenia wants to be an illegal state. We don't want to be involved in such a story. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u335	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u336	Thank you for your word, chairman. Someone used the word "unknown" in front of me. I am by basic education a science-mathematic technique, direction useful mathematics. And the budget is not an equation in which there would be as many unknowns as there are in this budget. That's why I'm going to vote against it. I will not now mention who, in the meantime, laughed on the part of the executive, when Luke spoke about the importance of the revenue side of the budget, because I do not want to give Mr Han this joy for another procedural one, but apparently in this National Assembly, the United Left, which glues everything to it alive, but never forget Venezuela, the only macroeconomically serious concern with the revenue side of the state budget, with what few loners on the right, that I am open, with the development model of this society and the state, although it is not necessary to agree on everything that colleagues in the National Assembly say on the right and who are present here. This budget, I believe that colleague Han is ill-willed and nervous and so forth, but this budget you yourself have cooked, such as it is. So I ask you to solve some intra-family stories and problems, but not to blend us in in in an inappropriate way. Of course, I cannot vote for this kind of budget that does not deal with income that does not solve development problems that do not solve pressing problems, social exclusion, poverty, which does not see that no one in this society is dealing with less than 40 years of age, and I cannot vote for this budget after all because I have too much in a larger and broader family. And after all, because I have too many children to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u337	Before I give the floor forward, I really ask that we leave the names of Members behind because they are not really important for us to accept what we have to take or to decide on the vote itself. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u338	Thank you for your word and good morning, given that it's half past six in the morning and that somehow this minority at the time when you come to the National Assembly of the Left Wing, I think we're on our own. It's hard to fight the mill on the wind, but maybe I'd say one thing, maybe two things. I agree with the discussion by the predecessor, who has quite well covered the debate and presented the issue of the Styria region. As a Ptujcan, I agree with him. Maybe not with some things in the field of economics. However, I think that one initiative should be addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. When I am talking to my peers and some people in some of the international circles of the European Union, I think that when the Slovenians joined the European Union, I think that we all kind of ran into something very important at that speed. I'm a supporter of the European project, definitely. But I think it is a good time to address to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the initiative to open an association agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, and so we, like some other European countries, are starting to fight for our own companies. Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic and Italy could fight for some of their own quotas in the fields of agriculture, economy, investment and could also list, except for us, who have become some of Junker's and Merkel's servants. I therefore give the initiative and thought forward that it is time for us in the European Union to start defending the principle of strong sovereign states within the European Union, or I think the European Union will fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u339	I almost forgot. One more. Mr Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u340	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I will not support this budget. Basics, I will say the hardest points of what is wrong with all this agreement, that it is socially unjust, that it is not development, has already been taken by a fellow moon. I will define the issue of this budget and its social orientation by what happened to me today on my way to Ljubljana. I'm walking from the Holy Spirit towards our train station. Stop me there, some guy. I've seen him for the first time in my life. He said, "I have 41 years of work, you young people, how many do you think I have pensions?" I thought there was about 500 euros there. "Yes, exactly 500 euros. What are you going to do to make it better?" I look, I was a little embarrassed to say, "Yeah, look, because in the United Left we are advocating that the pension improves, that we get this money with extra taxes, with additional capital taxes, to start making a fair contribution to our cash registers, but unfortunately Slovenian policy has conspired to have capital in our society with privileges. Pensioners as well as other segments of working classes will pull this short." Then he asked me, "You young men in the United Left, what are you going to do, have some hope for you?" And I said we'd keep fighting. And today is just the opportunity to fight for a more just social state. This fight is called the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and social justice has clearly lost this fight for 2017 and for 2018. The coalition will support this budget. I will not support him because he is socially unjust and underdeveloped and our pensioners will still live in poverty. I'm sorry. We'll have to wait for the Socialists to have a government to make it better. Obviously.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u341	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u342	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I will not support this budget either. My explanation is, yesterday I discussed that this budget has shown little on the revenue side, as I have already heard from some. It's like money is enough to come from itself, and we're just knocking here, who's gonna spend more on it, and who's gonna spend more on it. We do not create enough, we do not encourage investors, foreign investors. Although my predecessor said earlier about how to tax capital, I don't know how foreign capital will get to Slovenia if we tax it so we can't wait to tear it up. On the other hand, we have also heard some people here today talk about how we need to create as many new jobs as possible, that new jobs are also filled with cash contributions — both pension, health and others. And somehow we don't see it. You don't have to be here. I don't know what kind of money. There is a need to be will, and there is a need to change a number of laws, regulations. You need to look a little further. But there is no incentive in this budget when we delete investments that have been so far. Not for foreign investors, not for domestic investors. Domestic entrepreneurs are running out. The aliens are not coming, they're coming past us. Jobs are getting smaller and less where do you think the money will come from, so we can share pensions without budget money, so we can spend more money on health care and so on. I cannot support this budget because it is purely consumer until we have something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u343	I guess it's procedural. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u344	Mr President, I ask you to look at the situation in the Chamber and assess whether the National Assembly can continue its work at all if your colleagues even know what point we are at, what we are doing. I'm honest here, I can't even hear the debate. I'm having a hard time sitting here myself. I'm unlike anyone else all day here, and the proposal that he made a long time ago, my colleague Tonin, is completely in place. I waited a few minutes for you to make order in the hall, and I didn't have that luck. So you might really consider whether your colleagues are even able to follow up the meeting until the end. I'm having a hard time sitting here, too. To be honest, I'm having a hard time sitting here as long as you're taking this. But if you've decided to force it, at least be worthy of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u345	I agree with the proposal. Please sit down if we're going to move on. Don't we want to go on? Please. Let me repeat that we know what we are voting on. We decide on the specific part of the draft budget as a whole. Master Matthew Tonin has an explanation of the voice in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u346	Messengers and Members! Do you know why I find this coalition insensitive and sometimes hardhearted? At least in those coalitions I was in, we were at least enough to accept an amendment for at least 5,000 euros. But this coalition doesn't even accept an amendment for five thousand euros. Let me tell you how it is possible to build a real dialogue, a good climate or some consensus in this House, if the coalition is so strong that it is not possible to agree on any minimum amendments that will absolutely nothing threaten public finances, and by means of a government coalition, they would show some good will. I remember my first budget in 2012, I was a young, inexperienced, resourceful leader of the parliamentary group, and when we adopted the budget, today it was not, nothing, no scenes, but in 2012 it was around Parliament, as it was said, a living wall or a living chain. People were walking around Parliament, holding hands and demanding 16 million euros for universities. I recall that I, as a coalition Member at the time, requested the suspension of that meeting and that it is understood whether this 16 million could be provided. My friend Tanko was mad at me. I think today he hasn't forgiven me for doing that at the time, for interrupting that meeting, and for saying that we're going to get over that 16 million euro if universities need it. And in the end, even the opposition with Jank Webro at the helm was backing this budget. If you want to create a slightly better climate in this country, for God's sake, please show some heart.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u347	Before I give you procedurally, I can tell you that this was nothing from [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] . Now, you tell me this, and before that, you've even done a tirada about other things, not even that you won't vote, even though it's clear in advance what you want. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u348	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, I am, probably also my colleague and colleagues from the United Left in a pretty good psychophysical condition, we have no problem bringing this meeting to a close, but somehow I think that some of you who have been sitting here all day are too tired. He has already warned about this, I was at the College at the time, Mr Tanko, with experience. We joined him in some way, but you picked up this meeting just like you picked it up. That's just part of it, I'm paraphrasing Tonin, some of your greatnesses, but it seems to me that the budget is still an excessively serious matter, so that I and some colleague who I will not now call ping-pong and that everyone will continue to be ashamed. This rest of the opposition here could also learn what the SDS did and cut back on the workday a little bit, but we decided not to do so. My procedural proposal is to suspend the meeting, the procedural proposal is that you put this to the vote and that we continue this morning at ten o'clock. At eight o'clock alone, I have a very important KNOVS meeting, including Mr Tonin. Coalition Members and Members have already announced that they will not attend this meeting due to fatigue. In the light of this, it would also be good to suspend this meeting and perhaps to reconsider the visit of the KNOVS morning session. I ask you kindly to put my proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u349	As I said before, I will not put this proposal to the vote, because it is clear that there is still a desire to vote on this today. Procedurally, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u350	Look, even though I am a Member of my own initiative here, I have the right of procedure to at least a procedural proposal. At least something, thank God, I'd say. But look, I think the criticism and initiative of the predecessor, Mr Duck, is certainly very much in place. And if tomorrow morning at eight o'clock [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] or even today, yes, it is, half an morning, a little over. If the Commission's meeting on the supervision of intelligence and security services is not concluded, the President of the National Assembly shall be your responsibility. And you have the responsibility that the meeting will not be concluded because you are arranging the work of the National Assembly. That is why I, too, am joining the initiative of my colleague, Trcek, with the United Left, to suspend the meeting and continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. And please, let us vote on this because look at the climate in the National Assembly. On the other hand, I understand that there is no excessive fatigue because this government is already half-term or half-life in active peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u351	I will put to the vote a decision on the suspension of the meeting as proposed. We vote to end the meeting. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 47. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 47.]] So we're moving on to the meeting. We vote on the specific part of the draft budget as a whole. Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I will vote against the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 because I am extremely concerned about the opinion of the European Commission sent to us yesterday in the National Assembly. I believed that I was optimistic that we were already on the right track on financial stabilisation, but the European Commission, which is also ours, informed us that we are obviously underinvesting in the direction of financial stabilisation. I will also vote against it because I was truly optimistic and I expected that this coalition for 2017, which is still the last year, will be twelve months of the government of this coalition, for which I am preparing the budget and I expected to see some new concepts, a new economic model for this country, which would primarily increase the revenue side. It's easy to cut a cake of bread, it can be crushed, it's a little harder to bake. And when I say bread, it means taking care of the income side. We do not create enough in this country and it will be even worse in the future because the measures of this government are those taking oxygen to the Slovenian economy, telling potential investors not to come to us. As a result, there will be no new jobs and educated young people are moving out. And one more thing, Mr President, is your friend and colleague Norbert Lammert, who has at one time also thrown Chancellor Angelo Merkel at the last bench when she was chatting with her fellow Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u353	We are voting now. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. There were 53 votes against. (The vote was 53.)(against 15.) I note that a specific part of the draft amending budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 54 votes against, 11. (The vote was 54.)(against 11.) I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have ended by deciding on individual parts of the draft amending budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the state budget proposal for revenue and expenditure is harmonised. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u354	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since no amendments have been voted on, the internal budget is harmonised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u355	Since the draft amendments to the budget are coordinated, we are moving on to a decision on the draft amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 as a whole. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. 54 were voted against and 14 were voted against. (The vote was 54.)(against 14.) I note that the amendments to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary budget. Procedurally, mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u356	President, we have now concluded, or you have adopted, the budget for 2017. Now, really, honestly ask yourself, because the coalition will lose if we postpone the 2018 budget vote today, not tomorrow, today to 10. The watch. That means we can postpone the vote for 7 hours and 20 minutes. President, I think it is also your duty to look at all these Members, that you are the president of everyone and some of us have a committee tomorrow morning at 8 a.m. That's one thing. We also have small children and families, it is said, that children should be brought to kindergarten before this, and I would like to bring them safely. And these things, it would be right and fair to allow us to do them in one such normal way. It is not a threat to the security of the country, nor to financial stability. Nothing. It's just one coalition, and it's that for whatever it takes, this thing needs to be taken to the living and the dead today. At least that's what I'm asking you, if you've been so hard on the amendments that you haven't accepted any of them, go at least so much on our hands and put the vote to 10:00 tomorrow. I've got another supplement. I would really like to have a proposal to put to the vote again, to move this thing to 10 a.m. tomorrow. It is a new situation, the budget for 2017 has already been adopted. When we voted on the Duck proposal, it was not yet, now it is a new situation. This is the first proposal, procedurally, to vote on this matter. That's another thing. I suggest you send a ministerial team home because there's no point in him trying and insisting on us here because he's not discussing it. It was time for us to sit in such a crew all day, and it could probably be an interesting debate and debate when we were discussing the budget, but now it makes no sense for ladies and gentlemen to sit here, they can go home, I as an opposition Member ask them to go home, because it makes no sense that they are here. Really. Let's be a little human and be a little reasonable. And the third old, the president, for whom you are also in charge, is that we are not alone in this house, that this house operates, that we vote, must also be attended by professional colleagues, those who care about voting, for all the things that run here. They too need to be understood. President, nothing will be lost if we vote on this tomorrow at 10 a.m. If you will already reject this proposal, please, if you can at least give me a reason why the 2018 budget vote cannot be held today at 10 a.m., that is 7 hours and 19 minutes later.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u357	I will first respond to this procedurally, because each procedural one deserves its answer before the next procedurally given. I think a little over ten minutes ago we were just deciding whether or not to continue the meeting. That's how it was formulated. It was not formulated only until a certain point. And this Parliament has clearly expressed its will on this issue. I've already given it, and I really don't understand what changes in five minutes. Yeah, it's been five minutes since then. The will was very clear. And that's my key answer to that question. I asked, the will was expressed. We will not continue to vote on a procedural basis. This is also restraint because we have been operating for as long as possible. In the first place, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u358	Look, Mr. Chairman. I'll limit myself to one thing that my colleague Tonin has already mentioned. For this house to work, all that we do and what's not proud of us, a whole bunch of people here have to cover our butts, in their own words. These people with the new mini-tax reform did not receive higher wages. A lot of these people have bad salaries. Since I've been in this House, he's been giving me a lot of money to amend some amendment to raise these people's wages to have an information system for the 21st. A century. You'd probably just run me over and the media would run me over. Out of respect for all these experts and experts, both party workers and others working in this Parliament, among them is the lady who told me, "Where to take Cerar from 526 euros net to me", I suggest that you take into account the proposal of colleague Tonin that we stop this meeting at this time and that we continue it tomorrow with some normal hours, today, I'm sorry. out of respect for these people and respect for people who can have at least about family life as a colleague of Tonin, whom I and some others who live longer than an hour's drive, even someone from the government team, do not have. And we will not have him until the end of this, nor will we have another term. I don't have a problem, I can explain every amendment here now for 2018. We can try and trick each other here, Milan, until you and the security guys kick me out. But I don't want to do this. Let's finally be people. After all, let's have a normal Slovenian breakfast. I'm asking you to stop this session right now. Some have already abandoned her because they don't want to do this, just like you're running this session. It is high time that this vehemence has ceased in this national council. Since we're not a substitute for Big Brother show, we're not a commercial television that's going to put on more commercials. Let's be serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u359	Procedurally, I think it's only meant to keep us here longer. Mr. Andrey Chus has a procedural record.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u360	I thought, Mr President, when you said earlier that you would take each procedure separately and also respond to it, but no problem. No problem. You all know that my relationship with a former client is not the best, and a lot of people in this national council are talking about how loyal, in love with their leaders here. But, look, the lesson of today's story is, look, you in SMC are more in love with Mira Cerar than everyone in SDS in Janez Janša together. That's the lesson of today's story. And you need a mirror. Put your hands on your heart. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u361	What does this have to do with procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u362	Let me have two more minutes and I'll tell you what I think because I have that right. We have now discussed, I think, almost 40 amendments to the opposition, both the United Left, the Alliance of Social and Liberal Democrats, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian Democratic Party. What was the lesson of this story? That everything sucks, that everything is a farce. I don't even know why we're here. I propose, given that the budget is far from people, economies, young people, some social justice, that we conclude this farce today, we say as the President of the Government said: Peace, love, bye, and let us conclude this meeting of the National Assembly. See, the 2018 amendments is a little less than 2017. We all know what you're going to do with them. It doesn't matter if we have them. Let's say Peace, love, goodbye, and close the meeting of the National Assembly. And I'm sorry, but I'm predicting the obstruction of the National Assembly meeting at this point because it doesn't make any sense, because it all sucks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u363	Gradually, Master Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u364	Mr President, I hope you are aware that each parliamentary group can take a 45-minute recess before the vote. If we do this to the three opposition parliamentary groups, you will be adjourned for two hours. And what's in it for you? What's in it for you? And if we behaved like you or the coalition, we would do exactly that. And please, we warn, we pray, and nothing helps. That's why right now it's just my warning, but if we act like it, you'll lead us to that. And we will all sit in the National Assembly for two hours, or you may remember that the point can be interrupted and continued today at ten o’clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u365	Now there have been so many of these proposals that we must obviously vote again on the same matter that we voted on ten minutes ago. Procedurally, Mr. Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we vote, then I propose that we vote on the proposal to continue tomorrow in the context of the votes when they are envisaged. They're scheduled at 7:00 today, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u367	This is the case, we vote to proceed now or, if the decision is not voted on, we shall proceed with the vote tomorrow after the vote scheduled for tomorrow. This means that at seven we are voting together also this part for 2018 ahead. So I have drawn from everything that has been so far: whether we continue now and finish or continue to vote tomorrow in the context of the vote, not in the morning at ten o'clock in the vote. Yes, if the decision is adopted, we will continue, otherwise tomorrow we will vote in the framework of the vote. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, here's the deal. We are voting first because we must vote first before others are procedural, whether we continue the meeting and finish these two points or not. Now we're talking about both points. You can say it in a procedural, normal way, because you always say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u368	Mr President, I think that Member Battelli has made a very good and constructive proposal, which is to be taken into account. Because he has upgraded what we have proposed so far to continue the vote tomorrow at ten o'clock. I understand that, for purely technical reasons, it may be difficult for the coalition tomorrow at 10 a.m. to ensure that a sufficient number of Members are able to vote normally, and therefore it is certain that the proposal by Mr Battelli is in place to be normally carried out in the other vote tomorrow. I propose that this procedural proposal, I correct my own and support Mr Battelli's proposal to vote on this. Be understanding, I don't want to be rude, but look, we have 26 amendments in the 2018 budget. The coalition is not interested in anything, nor is it listening. Ministers don't explain anything either. So it's all going empty and it's not possible to work like this. To me it would be, believe me, the easiest thing to say is, I'm obstructing the session, our task force is going home and you're doing what you want. But since we want to work responsibly in the New Slovenia Group, we ask you to postpone this vote in one reasonable way. And a personal addition. Mr President, I don't have a driver to take me home after the meeting. I'll have to drive myself 40 kilometers. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u369	We have said that we will vote on whether we continue and finish and that we will then decide on this, that it will not be too complicated, because I will do the other at any time. I think he's completely understandable and completely rational. First, we vote on whether or not we continue. So the positive conclusion is in this case. We vote on the decision to proceed with the remaining two points that we have at the vote. There are 61 Members and Members present, 42 votes in favour, 19 votes in favour. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 19.]] The decision is adopted. So here we go. We tried both ways, negative and positive, both times the same result. Parliament's will, therefore, is clear in this case and would continue. Procedurally, Mr. Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u370	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Of course, the will of Parliament is such and must be respected. The Constitution must be respected, laws must be respected, including labour legislation. Yes, Minister Darkov is not here for any known reason. But, Mr President, you have been signed under the auspices of this meeting and you have invited representatives of the Government to this meeting, particularly to this point, which we are now considering or will vote on. I suggest you allow the government representatives to go home. There are mothers, there are women who have domestic obligations this morning, foreign obligations, and it is pointless to torture or torture them here. [[advertising from the hall]] Can you calm your impatient colleagues? At least I wanted to make a small contribution to make this institution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a family-friendly institution. If you understand what I'm saying, you probably didn't, Mr President, because there's a noise in your parliamentary group. It's up to you. If you see the sense of you torturing ministers, secretary of state, secretary of state, insisting on three more hours because it'll take three hours, I'll tell you, or tell them to go home for God's sake, because it doesn't make sense that they're here. That's what I'm telling you. Thank you very much if you've listened to my thoughts.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u371	First of all, as far as participation is concerned. Of course, the government decides for itself, and it is one of the ministers who confirms me at a certain point. And this is the Minister of Finance. For all the others there is certainly no terrible emergency in fact, and it has not been before. I absolutely agree with that. But I can't tell them or anything like that about it, and they have to decide for themselves. Is there any other procedure? First procedural today, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u372	Thank you, President. Your interpretation of the fact that this is the will of the National Assembly is a bit of a hair draw. This is the will I think that coalition MPs, but SMC Members, and this is some kind of violence. And I repeat what Comrade Duck and colleague Tonin said before, here, in this house are people who are going to have to drive home today and come back tomorrow morning. Some drive by public means and so on. I am not talking now about Members and I do not know anyone else, but about people who are employed in the National Assembly and who because of some whim that this must be accepted today at one o'clock or, I don't know, at three o'clock in the morning, you insist that we don't do it today, the same day, the same date at, I don't know, at ten o'clock in the morning or at night, when there is still a need to ensure the presence of a coalition due to constitutional changes. It is a totally incomprehensible insistence in this view that this must happen now, at the moment. You also have this competence to suspend this meeting at this time and continue it tomorrow or today, as has been proposed several times, and which I think is the most rational decision at this time. People aren't really being gathered anymore, we're listening to this chatter here, that people are making noises to other Members, that they're commenting, and that's not like any more. Take this authority as chairman and stop this meeting and continue today in 10 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u373	So what you're suggesting to me is that I object to what most have just voted. I'd normally understand if I'd made that decision on my own, but we voted twice in a positive and negative direction. Both times the result was exactly the same. Procedurally, Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u374	It's the first time today. I don't care how they voted, I say I go home. I got up at 5:00 in the morning, and now if we keep doing this, I'm gonna be up 24 hours. I have to drive a car for a few miles, not on the freeway, but where it's falling and everything else is jumping. He's already irresponsible to himself and to others, I'll soon be 70 years old, I don't say it, but I need a little more time and concentration, and I'm already afraid to drive home. At three o'clock, it's said I'll be almost 24 hours, the Minister of Health should have sent me home by now, because this way, when I'm out of the ordinary here, it's very likely that I'm going to be able to get some medical expenses and we're going to delete everything else. I don't care if you can punish me, because I'm going home because I can't, I can't act so irresponsiblely, at least for traffic, because I can run somebody else. Thank you very much. Bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u375	I'm just looking over at the mags. Alenki Brother. Is it procedural? Okay. Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u376	President, remember how today's meeting began. There you go. And that's how you intend to end it. Great, really great budget meeting. All we ask is that the vote on the two acts, from nine to one in the morning we are here, some so-called whole day in the Chamber, and we do not deserve to be able to vote on the budget for 2018, which is far ahead, and on the law on the implementation of the budget in a normal way. Okay, so that's your way of doing it. But budgets, they can also be accepted this way, always budget sessions are long, but never in such a wasteful way. I just wanted to warn you that we started off so badly, and you're obviously going to end up with your strength. Once again, if we get together by three groups of Members, you will be here by ten. Really. This is the way this national council works. Sad, really, sad. And I also suggest to you, President, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you decide that we are working long enough today and that we should do this vote tomorrow in the framework of the votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u377	Next procedurally. Yeah, it's actually impossible to work if they're still procedural. No, no, I realize that you will, because you have the right to continue to interfere with procedural matters, obviously there is no other way to do this than to really end this meeting. [[advertising from the hall]] No, I didn't say I was interrupting. Not yet. But obviously you're going to keep going with procedural and then you're referring to how people have to wait, but only because you want to stall. We have just had the opportunity to make a decision, we have decided twice, and I really don't understand why it is necessary to proceed with procedural procedures and then to complain that they are procedural. [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't see your hands on procedure. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u378	I've had enough of this, President. That's where I'm listening from that side of the relationship with the mother of the children and everything else. At the time you were in power, you dragged the amendments to the Finance Committee at four o'clock in the morning. And don't tell me, then nobody thought about the kids, not the employees, not the mothers. A colleague who was Prime Minister when we voted on the trust and the budget, but we sat here until half past six this morning, never thought it was unbearable to accept the budget. And I find it unfair and unfair. The fact is, if we postpone voting tomorrow evening at the time of the vote, we will reach the point where we will be back at twelve o'clock and one o'clock in the morning. I wonder if you'll remember then who proposed the vote at the time. Today we have to end this.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u379	You are using everyone on a procedural basis just so that time is running out and that we simply cannot even discuss or vote on what we should. Any more procedural? Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u380	Thank you for your word, chairman. The last of my proceedings, at yesterday's session, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u381	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u382	I will proceed, President, once you have assured me peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u383	All right, now you can keep going. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, calm down. He's still got a procedural dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u384	Fortunately, they forgot to install a subroutine for resentment. No, it's not funny. It's terrible. I'm not going to take any more of this step-by-step, I'm just going to drop by on one thing. We voted, and the majority decided to do so. At least the head of the SMC Group, you or your colleague Milan and I read the federalist records of the fathers of American democracy. In them, if I'm not mistaken, Jefferson very clearly points out the danger of most overruns a minority. Let's stop the session already because of America, but maybe show Trump the way in which parliamentary democracy should go. I'm not going to take any more calls because we're not in the mill, I'm not going to repeat one thing ten times, but the budget is not being adopted that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u385	We are voting on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u386	Your Honor, the President, I've warned you three times, and now I'm demanding a 45-minute recess so we can agree on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u387	Which article are you referring to, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u388	Mr President, I believe that you, as President of the National Assembly, will tell me if not, but you will give me two minutes to get the rules of procedure, because I don't have it here all day, and I will show you. But what you do now is make fun of Members and Members. You are well aware that as a group of Members we have the right to a 45-minute recess before the decision is taken. And you said we're deciding that. You can continue with the theatre, of course you can continue [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u389	Now it's clear what 45 minutes this is about. So I'm doing a 45-minute break, because there's nothing else I can do. The fact is, these things can go on the same way, but in 45 minutes, you'll come and tell us what you've decided. We'll continue at 1.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u390	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm continuing the adjourned session of the choir. First, I ask Master Alenko Bratušek if she wishes to explain the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u391	You told me I had to, President, so I'll do my best. Given how bad the 2018 budget is prepared, already in 2017 there are between €200 million and €300 million of holes in the budget. Of course, all of this goes on. The European Commission's opinion, which you have received today, points to an end. Such a budget cannot be supported. We will not support the general part of the budget either in our parliamentary group or with our colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u392	We vote on the general work of the supplementary draft budget [[..]] Gradually, Master Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u393	It is right that other fellow Members also know a few things. In this 45-minute break, the entire opposition took place. We have also tried to invite the President of the National Assembly into our midst, but unfortunately the President of the National Assembly is not ready to speak to the opposition. You know what procedural options the opposition has if you want to be guessed. Each of the parliamentary groups at each point may require 45 minutes of consultation before the vote. There are two other items on the agenda, 26 amendments, and any amendment could be reasoned. I guarantee you that, without any major problems, this meeting can also be held by half eight o'clock in the morning, so that we can go directly with Member Duck to the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission. President, you are now pleading for the majority here, but as chairman, you have the opportunity to lead and decide for yourself how the meeting will proceed. And you should also be a protector of the opposition in this sense to allow us some normal work and, above all, to give some sense to all these discussions. I understand that you have decided in your position to bring this matter to life or to the dead, that you will not be interested in any argument by the opposition for even EUR 5,000. And see, in the New Slovenia Group, we really don't see any sense in participating in this consideration of the budget at all. That is why, Mr President of the National Assembly, I declare obstruction at this and the next point so that this Parliament and this coalition of yours, without major problems, can lead to the end without any obstacles. She's gonna feel great. Only – if it is a democracy?Oh, my God! Thank you so much for such a democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u394	First of all, she's got a procedural assistant named Alenka Bratušek. Mr President, once again, if, not if, because you can count the minutes, you can count on how long we can keep your life and work in the National Assembly warm. But since we're smarter than that, but I can ask my colleagues, I believe they're nervous because it's 2:00 in the morning, but [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u395	My colleagues are leaving.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u396	No, no, I meant yours. In short, do it, do it. All of Slovenia has been shown, as I said, by someone who is smarter, but simply gives up. Good night!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u397	He considers the word to be procedural, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u398	Thank you for your word. As far as the United Left is concerned, we have very well proposed that this vote be postponed. There is absolutely no need for this budget to be adopted at 2 a.m. as is now being adopted. You have not heard our request or our proposal, so we do not see why we should be involved in this debate. The heads at this hour are simply no longer in place to decide how we will allocate 9.3 billion in 2018. We're not going to do this in the middle of the night. We're going to do this at some normal hour where we could have a rational discussion. So if it is appropriate for you to do so now in such a way, without any need to accept it, you do it, but our Group of Members also predicts obstruction of the following two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u399	We continue our consideration of point 4, and we vote on the general part of the supplementary budget. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. There were 52 votes in favour, and no one opposed them. (For the vote was 52.)(Nobody.) I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 11.11.2016. We are moving to budget user 1611, Ministry of Finance. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Financial Equalisation for the municipalities. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. They voted in favour of 2 and against 46. (There were two for you.))(against 46.) I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to budget user 1811, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Development Cooperation and International Assistance. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. No one voted for it, but there were 48 against it. For no one.)(against 48.) I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to budget user 1914, General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Management, Education and Supply of Personnel of the Slovenian Army. We vote. 53 Members and Members present, no one voted against and 50 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Operational Action and Preparedness Sub-programme of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted against and 50 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme Infrastructure and Equipment of the Slovenian Army. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted against and 50 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2130, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Local Development Infrastructure sub-programme. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present, no one voted against, and 49 against them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present, no one voted against, and 49 against them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme of the War of Cemetery. We're voting. There were 53 Members and Members present, and he voted in favour of 1 and against 50. [[The vote was 1.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2330, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We decide on the amendment of Nova Slovenije to the sub-programme Professional tasks and advice in agriculture. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted against and 50 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme for the Management of Agricultural Lands under number 1. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted against and 50 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the sub-programme for the management of agricultural land under number 2. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted against and 50 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2431, Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of the State Road under number 1. We're voting. There were 53 Members and Members present, one of whom voted against 49. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of the State Road under number 2. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted in favour, and 50 were against them. [[For no one.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of the State Road, under number 3. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted in favour, and 50 were against them. [[For no one.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of the State Road under number 4. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted in favour, and 50 were against them. [[For no one.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of the State Road under number 5. Let's vote. 52 Members and Members were present; no one voted for them, but 49 were against them. [[For no one.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of the State Road under number 6. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present; no one voted against them, but 50 were against them. [[It's not accepted.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of the State Road under number 7. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted in favour, and 50 were against them. [[For no one.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2550, Ministry of Environment and Space. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Water Management sub-programme. We're voting. 53 Members and Members were present, no one voted in favour, and 50 were against them. [[For no one.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Housing activity. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present; no one voted against them, but 50 were against them. [[For no one.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sub-programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present; no one voted against them, but 50 were against them. [[For no one.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 2611, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Social Protection Programme sub-programme. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present, no one voted against, and 49 against them. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the Programme sub-programme to help the family. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present, no one voted against and 50 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user 2613, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the Sub-programme Editation and Control in the Work Area. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, no one voted against and 48 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3330, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to the Sports Infrastructure sub-programme. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present, no one voted against and 50 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to budget user 3340, Ministry of Culture. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors Joint Left to the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, archival and library activities. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, no one voted against and 48 against. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget as a whole. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 53 for them and 1 for them. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present and 52 votes against 1. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. Procedural? Explanation. Good. We have ended by deciding on individual parts of the supplementary draft budget. I ask the representative of the Government whether the supplementary draft budget on revenue and expenditure is harmonised. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u400	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, the budget is in line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u401	Since the updated draft budget is coordinated, we are moving on to a decision on the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 as a whole. Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u402	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think I am a little premature, but I would nevertheless like to give an explanation on behalf of the modern Centre's Group of the Parties when deciding on the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 as a whole. The Republic of Slovenia, citizens and citizens, today our country has for the first time since 2012 re-public financial sovereignty. In 2015, this was last year, we have come out of the surplus deficit process, and now, with the adoption of the 2017 budget and the 2018 budget, we are once again standing firmly on our own public financial legs. This is a major achievement resulting from intensive cooperation, which took place not only at the level of the government and the coalition, but also at the level of cooperation with the opposition and others involved in this process. I am talking in particular about the groups that had to participate in social dialogue in local communities. Through the committees held in connection with the consideration of the two budgets for 2017 and 2018 in the initial stages, the Government has carefully noted and also taken into account the many proposals made by the opposition and them, as reflected in the report prepared by the Government, and these proposals, as far as they were in public financial capacity and rationality, have been taken into account. In this final proposal that has come and that we have first considered together the opposition and the coalition on the committees themselves, and then intensely through the debate at the plenary session yesterday and today. So we are pleased that we have finally adopted, as we say, a budget for a two-year period, which is in particular a reflection of the national ownership we bear to public financial stability and, in this sense, the programming, developmental future of this country for the coming two years. We will vote in favour of the said budget proposal in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-16-SDZ7-Redna-24.ana.u403	We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. There were 47 votes in favour, and no one was against them. (For it was 47.)(Nobody.) I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 by means of an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 16. 11. 2016, which you received on e-klop. Stop proceding now, because today or yesterday there were absolutely too many. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 56. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted in favour of 1 and against 50. (For it was 1.)(against 50.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 68 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left Group shall become irrelevant to the same Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. One vote was voted against and 44 against. [[The vote was 1.]] [[44 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 68 under number 2. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. Three were voted against and 42 were voted against. [[The vote was 3.]] [[There were 42 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. There were 54 votes in favour, and no one was against it. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[There was a vote against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue today at ten o'clock. I wish you a safe trip home. However, I thank the services of the National Assembly for their patience, work, and time.
