ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning! We begin with the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Eva Irgl, Vesna Vervega, Erika Deklava from 16:00 p.m., Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Janja Slug, Milan Brglez between 9-11 p.m. and between 14:00 and 15.30 p.m., Bojan Podkrajšek, Bojan Dobovšek, Tomaž Gantar, Matjaž Germany from 15.30 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek, Janez Janša, Jernej Vrtovec from 18:00 p.m. to 18.30 p.m., Tomaž Lisec from 16:00 p.m., Matej T. Vatovec, Jan Škoberne and Zvonko Lah until 13 p.m.m.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the exploratory proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the municipality wants a plum plant, in accordance with an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished other present, well-known! You have before you a proposal for a law that we need in order to acquire real estate to make a strategic investment in the development area, which is of utmost importance for the Republic of Slovenia and for the regional development of Maribor and its surroundings. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is on 17. 11. 2016 unanimously set out the text of the law and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption by emergency procedure. We are talking about a strategic investment that will create at least a thousand jobs in the high unemployment problem area and its size of at least EUR 100 million will have many positive effects on other sectors and economic operators. In order to promote economic growth, positive effects will also be seen in the social, pension and state budget. As a result, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will benefit from these positive effects. It should be stressed that by attracting investments, we are being overtaken by our competing countries. In many ways, we are too harsh and too slow. The delay will increase over time, so we need a reaction. This law is a step in this direction and means a new development momentum for the Republic of Slovenia. The bill brings six key solutions that are new to the existing legal system. Firstly, it provides conditions for the establishment of a development area in the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, which is an area of production zone and is due to positive effects in the public interest. The specific location and scope of the area are set out in the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. Secondly, it defines strategic investment. This is an investment that: creates at least a thousand jobs in the Municipality - Slivnica and the wider area of Maribor, ensures the long-term preservation of the investment project of production and jobs in the Republic of Slovenia for at least 10 years from the conclusion of the contract for the implementation of the strategic investment in the development area, exceeds EUR 100 million and is suitable for integration into the development area due to spatial, technological, logistical and economic growth and employment and consistent regional development. Thirdly, a new decommissioning objective is being set up to ensure that strategic investment in the development area is publicly beneficial in order to promote economic growth and employment, create new jobs and ensure coherent regional development. The proposer will make every effort to ensure that there will be no decommissioning in practice, but we need this instrument if an agreement cannot be reached with individual owners. We are confident that agreement will be reached with all real estate owners on the purchase of land, as most will sell or replace land. In particular, replacement land will be provided to farmers wishing to continue farming. Dismantling is therefore only envisaged as a last resort. Fourthly, it provides that only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may determine by decision the fulfilment of the conditions for strategic investment in the development area and establish a list of properties on which the construction is intended for public benefit. Fifthly, it allows a shorter process of acquisition of real estate, procedures related to the sale or exchange of agricultural land led by the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. Sixthly, it sets out the appropriate safeguards: return of land to agricultural use if a strategic investment is not carried out within five years and adequate insurance of the investor for the implementation of the investment. The existing legal framework contains a number of obstacles that prevent the country from responding quickly to the market opportunities. The proposed law represents a mental leap forward and encourages greater investments in the Republic of Slovenia, which are essential for the economic development of the country and the well-being of citizens and citizens. The solutions presented are the result of months of work and, in our view, represent an important step forward in the direction of ensuring conditions for the implementation of strategic investment. But our work will not end with the adoption of the law. We are already preparing a system-wide investment law by the Ministry, which we are counting on to be submitted to the National Assembly in this configuration for consideration on a regular basis. I propose that the bill be supported, because in our view it is absolutely necessary, because otherwise the opportunity to make a strategic investment would be lost, and thus the opportunity to do so with regard to the positive effects that this investment brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, I'm coming from Maribor, and I'm officially very little aware of this investment. Mr. Minister didn't tell us what this investment would be. And I would ask the president to call him to actually tell us what it is – what technology, what jobs, what jobs will pay, or will pay at least in the wage line in the Slovak automotive cluster because this matter is essentially a linear equation, linear because it goes too dark, with too many strangers. [[...]] And how am I supposed to decide on a law that I don't officially know anything about? The law, written for some concrete investment, probably in this reference to the National Assembly from a Member in the seat one across all of us to a colleague of Joszko's at headquarters 90, is not against any investment that would provide new jobs. [[…]] But in such a way that I literally don't know what this is about, how am I supposed to decide? [[…]] And then, I don't know, the ecoterrorist, and then the SMC Mariborians, who were taught to work by a little Jewish pianist, will say, "Well, you're not going to be elected to the next election!" I can live with that. However, I would like to continue living in Maribor, and I would like to know as much as most of us from the end of Styrian as possible what this is all about, without going through the newspapers, and one of us is going to lobby. So, presidents, I ask you to call the minister to tell us what kind of investment this is. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you, Dr. Runk. You've interrupted our procedures for questions that could be answered to the committee. You probably weren't on the committee, so now you're calling me to call on the Minister to give some substantive answers here today. Here's the procedure, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u6	The procedural proposal is to give yourself a reminder, President, because you personally insult me. The committee had other members and members of the United Left, wanted answers and did not receive them. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you. Like someone coming from this end, we could be present on the committee just like all the Members who wanted to. Procedural. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u8	I've been messing with Mr. Han once before. You yourself know, Vice-President, that we are also carrying out a range of bilateral, multilateral, international matters. I can even say that I do them better than many others, and I've been on these assignments, as you know. So don't make a fool of yourself to be from the National Assembly and from me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u9	I suggest we get back to work. Procedural. Danilo Ranc, please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u10	Mr President, please inform the debater that the National Assembly is not invited to discuss some business plans. We still need to know the rules of corporate governance. This is not a place to deal with some business plans. We had procedures on the Committee on the Economy and we had the opportunity to discuss this. I think it's a disturbance to the normal part of the National Assembly, and please take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Rance. I'll take that into account. Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go. You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much. We are here blessing some very specific business plans with the intervention law. If these business plans and some corporation really want a blessing and if the National Assembly should make this blessing credible, then, of course, these business plans are also of interest to this particular discussion. What else will this discussion be about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u13	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Potočnik, President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u14	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 41st emergency meeting. 12. 2016 as a parent working body treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the State Council, the municipalities of Hoče - Slivnica and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was presented with the following material: opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica and opinion of the Council of State. Parliamentary groups SMC, Desus and SD have tabled amendments to the bill. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the comments made by the services in writing, in particular as regards the procedure and admissibility of the discharge and the derogation from the system regime in other laws. Regarding the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, she explained that some of the amendments tabled followed the comments made by the service. The representative of the State Council further explained that the State Council was in favour of the proposed law. The meeting was also attended by the Mayor of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, who presented the opinion of the municipality and pointed out that the municipality supports the proposal of the law. In the debate, most discussers expressed support for the proposed law. They considered that the bill was a step in the right direction – to create the conditions for foreign investment in the Maribor area and the surrounding area, to develop the economy in this area and in Slovenia in general and to create coherent regional development in Slovenia. In particular, they highlighted the aspect of creating a number of jobs and positive multiplier effects on other areas and people's well-being. In other words, some discussers have been critical of the way that a specific law is adopted for each strategic investment. The debate also expressed opposition to the proposed law, drawing attention to the lack of respect for environmental and spatial legislation and environmental standards, the destruction of first-class agricultural land and the dilemma of real law. The Committee further considered and adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Desus Group, we will confirm the bill we have on the table. With high unemployment, the burdened Maribor and Styria have waited many years for large, large and stable investors. In the early 1990s, in the area of the failed TAM factory, production wanted to establish a German BMW, but unfortunately the idea did not come to light. Every day more than 10,000 Slovenians go abroad to work, most of them to Austria. Many of them are from Maribor and its surroundings, as well as from Pomur, Koroška and Gorenjska. They're different professions, and auto chiropractors are machine engineers who can't find jobs in our car industry and mechanics. The purpose of the present bill is to shorten the deadlines for the acquisition of property necessary for the execution of a strategic investment of national importance in the area of Hoče - Slivnica. If we pour ourselves pure wine and we can honestly admit that, if we do not adopt the law, it can happen again that we lose the opportunity and the opportunity to invest in a problem area with a high level of unemployment. But if we do everything — and we are diligent — to make the project work, we can create a large number of new jobs. If we succeed, this will have a positive impact on the budget, contributions will be paid, and, last but not least, taxes, health and pension allowances will be enriched, and social transfers will also be reduced as a result of employment. We will provide a better tomorrow for many families in Maribor and northeast Slovenia. In doing so, there are also many concerns, frankly, such as why the country does not offer an area of former production zones that are in Maribor. But the problem is that because of the location, size and placement, they are such that they do not meet the requirements of a potential investor or investors. It is also strongly exposed to the problem of possible forfeiture of property rights, or the dispossession envisaged in the bill, which we sincerely hope will not occur in our group – decommissioning. It should be noted, however, that decommissioning is envisaged only as a last resort and that the proposal provides for compensation or compensation in this case. While the Constitution provides in Article 69 that property rights on property may be withdrawn or restricted to public benefit against compensation in kind or against compensation under the conditions laid down in the law. Once again, I would like to point out here that we have the heartfelt hope or that we believe that the state will succeed, that there will be no decommissioning. In our Group of Members, we also believe that the proposaler has adequately defined the concept of public benefit, but we are also convinced that the creation of at least a thousand jobs is a sufficient argument for the inclination of the scale to this side, i.e. to the public benefit side. At the same time, the Constitution provides that the State will create employment opportunities and jobs, which we believe will be achieved by this law. We stress that investment through multiple effects will also have an important impact on nearby areas, which is very important to us in Desus, because we want to accelerate economic growth and coherent regional development in the wider area of Maribor. Following this, colleagues and colleagues, we will vote in favour of the bill in the Desus Group, because we believe that this region needs to be helped. And how can we do this better than providing the conditions for creating new jobs? We are confident that, by our vote, we will contribute to a greater number of jobs, greater social security, I say long-term and stable employment, less migration, and, of course, we expect that all environmental standards will be respected and that agricultural areas will be protected to the maximum extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u17	Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! It is likely that this session and this one – when the magnetogram is written – will be the most defended magnetogram of the National Assembly in some time. Then there will be many generals after the battle, and I hope that those who support this law today will not be nailed to the cross, what we have done to make some wealthy companies in Slovenia use their position to make them even richer. When I drove to Ljubljana this morning, I listened to the radio and the journalist said that today we will be adopting great stories in the National Assembly, one of the great stories is also this law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. Maybe he's right, but we'll see a big story in a few years or half a year. The country has embarked on a game where it will play an active role in attracting investment and, above all, in obtaining new quality – I hope – jobs of quality, and this is absolutely commendable. Another matter which is in this law, which is a special law, says that we will bring jobs to the developmentally endangered area of Maribor. All of us are full of mouths, how to help Maribor. This is how I think if the story comes out, Maribor and the surrounding area will be the most helpful. Secondly, it is very important: if this law is adopted and the investment is made alive, we will be able to pool the potential of the position and the existing infrastructure in this area. Above all, I am talking about two motorways, Ljubljana–Maribor, Ptuj–Zagreb, Ljubljana–Dunaj railways and also Edward Rusjan Airport. When you make such a decision that is not easy, you have to do some analysis, some examination, and if you look at this review, at least on my part, by the Social Democrats, pluses and minuses. They are minuses because this is a special law and because the owners of agricultural land can be dispossessed – one small advantage is that, even if there is a dissipation, they will be compensated for this land of breeding – that is certainly a minus. And the second minus is definitely environmental protection, or destruction of top or good agricultural land. And I've already listed all the things before where the benefits are for this law to be passed. Since the 91st year, ladies and gentlemen, there has not been an open company in the country, an industry that would have the potential to employ so many people. And if we succeed, we will somehow signal that Slovenia is open to foreign investments, which we absolutely need in Slovenia. So – that the generals will not overly dismember my performance or my magnetogram after the battle – because of all the above facts and also our conversations in the field, we will support this law and we want this investment to be really good, successful and would return to Maribor and to the surroundings that it once had before the 1990s. It was an industrial city and Maribor deserves that position back. Sometimes you have to be a little brave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u19	Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u20	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left of today's investment law in the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica we will not support. Not because they would not be aware of the difficult social situation in Maribor and the entire region, and not because they would oppose the investment on their own. However, we are opposed to the way in which the Government, as well as the bulldozer, will overtake legal standards and procedures and allow the intervention law to quickly circumvent environmental permits, change the destination of agricultural land and purchase of agricultural land under the force of decommissioning. We wonder what kind of model this sets us up with. Will we get an intervention law next time for an investor to crack in Prekmurje? In this way, a completely flawed and harmful model is established when a country becomes a kind of law firm for an individual corporation and makes a legal exception so that it can realize all its wishes. As we say, and I stress, we do not oppose the investment on our own, because it is a so-called greenfield investment, which, contrary to the privatisation of state property, begins from nothing and does not merely parasiate at the work of previous generations. However, we are convinced that it is possible to find a better alternative location in the Podrav region. In fact, the investment will go to no more than 100 hectares of the best agricultural land, and this is by no means small. We can only mention, for example, the surface area of Magne Steyr in Graz, which measures about 40 hectares and employs 5,000 500 people. And we're talking about 100 hectares for a thousand jobs. The most important information is that there are 211 hectares of functional decommissioned areas in the sub-regional region. In short, we all agree that jobs are a key challenge for Western societies in the future. It is clear that this is particularly true for socially disadvantaged areas with high unemployment, such as the sub-regional region. However, finding jobs at the price of deep cuts in labour rights, at the cost of lowering environmental standards, at the price of tax breaks for rich people and violating democratic and legal principles is a missed and harmful path. Capital interests are put at the forefront and thus directly at odds with democracy, with people and with nature. Slovenia is one of the European countries with the lowest level of food supply. In short, how should we increase such sung self - care if we build the best agricultural land? Have you ever wondered what this investment entails with regard to local water-ecological threats to extremely sensitive and non-replaceable areas of groundwater in terms of drinking water supply? Moreover, the law is also controversial from a constitutional point of view. Article 67 provides for the acquisition and use of property by ensuring its economic, social and environmental function. 71. Article 71 of the Constitution provides for the protection of land and, in particular, for the protection of agricultural land. Given that this is enshrined in the Constitution, at least at the principle level these are extremely important values that should be taken seriously and respected. Spatial and environmental standards, rights and procedures are not intended for themselves and are not some kind of non-diggage that hinders investment. They are an expression of political and social consensus that we need to think in a sonar, sustainable way and that economic development needs to be guided within frameworks that regulate impacts and risks. Legal procedures and rights are here to ensure that development is not destructive to the environment and people. And if it is necessary to defend labour, social and environmental standards, to bear the eco-terrorist mark, then we bear it with all pride. Such a way, as with the law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica demonstrate Government, we will not support it in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u21	Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u22	Messengers, Members, good afternoon! The bill before us deals specifically with the investment issue and is, as such, an example of a special law. The fact that we must adopt a special law for an investment from abroad is extremely worrying for us Christian Democrats. On the part of the government, it is often obvious that some opposition proposal dealing with a particular area does not solve matters systematically. Is the proposal that we are considering today a system law? This proposal clearly demonstrates the inadequacy of the general legislative framework, which clearly does not address investment placement issues well enough. Unfortunately, the bill is a very eloquent proof that our business environment is insufficiently regulated by private investment. In Novi Slovenija we also recall the European Commission's findings in March this year in its report on Slovenia that the share of private investment in Slovenia decreased further in 2014 and 2015. The gap compared to the euro area has increased in this way. According to the report, domestic and foreign investors point out that operating barriers are mainly related to the functioning of public administration, as one of the main obstacles for businesses, the complexities and long-term procedures in the area of spatial planning and construction permits are highlighted. The government of Mira Cerar, with simplification in this area, is unfortunately still slowing down. And it's been over two years since this government. The government is also delaying tax reform, which would attract more investment from abroad. Unfortunately, by increasing taxes on legal persons' income, the coalition does not help to increase Slovenia's interest in investment. Persisting on one of the highest tax burdens on work in Europe certainly does not help us. Well, the marriage that's before us today is certainly a nice facade, but a nice facade doesn't save the house if the house inside is falling apart. The government is trying to create the impression that Slovenia is extremely attractive to foreign investors, and that from now on foreign investors will just go to Slovenia. But this law, which is before us today, reveals all the misery of the Slovenian business environment and bureaucracy. Do we imagine that a special law must be adopted for an investment? I'm sure that's not normal. In a normal country, a special law to place an investment would not be needed. If Slovenia were normal, the existing legislation could lead to a successful end to this investment. And that's why I'm saying that this law reveals the misery of our business environment and bureaucracy. Unfortunately, Slovenian entrepreneurs are not in the same position. Remember, Members, how many times have you visited the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia or the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where many requirements of the Slovenian economy have been presented. Why does the Government not respond to their demands in such a way that it does not make specific laws and additional and new laws, as is done only in the case of this investment? Remember how many Slovenian entrepreneurs spend years and years trying to increase their halls, their productive capacities, and they always run into such and different bureaucratic obstacles, impossible municipal spatial plans and more. Why are they not subject to special laws, as is the case with this investment? And even more, here the investment will be placed on the best agricultural land – in the fact that self-sustainment is very low in Slovenia. And even more so, the Social Democrats and their agricultural minister have repeatedly stressed this and are, they say, great fighters for a quality agricultural land. Where do you see this fight? In northeastern Slovenia there are vastly degraded areas. In short, when Slovenian entrepreneurs have the same opportunities, then you can count on our votes. Until then, unfortunately, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u23	Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go, Mr. Ly.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u24	Dear President, Minister with a team, dear colleagues and friends, all of them have a very nice greeting! I want today to be a success. In the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members, we will support the proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. We believe that this is necessary so that we do not lose the potential investor, which has been a real exception in recent years, as we have already heard, because there is a considerable investment that will result in the opening of thousands of jobs. But I believe that this investment not only brings thousands of new jobs to Slovenian territory, but also new technologies, new knowledge and, finally, it also means one very strong step forward, for development, and in this way we will be better integrated into the competitive world. However, I would like to point out that such a solution is not the most appropriate, because we believe that such problems – as regards attracting foreign direct investment – need to be addressed systematically at national level and therefore we call on the Government to draw up a system law and strategy. It also sets strategic development areas, including in other municipalities, within the framework of this strategy. At the same time, I would like to point out that at that time – and I hope that this strategy will also happen – the government will take into account local development potentials in these areas. Since each area has some property, it is said that it has certain potentials that the other area does not have. And it would be good to take that into account. In view of the fact that this law somehow affects — or investment then — agricultural land, obviously there is no longer any way to help, since there are probably no other solutions at this time. I would suggest, however, that future investments of this kind also check all the possibilities of existing industrial infrastructures that are abandoned and self-inflicted. There are quite a few cases like this in Pomure. In those cases, if these investments are to be realised on abandoned industrial land and infrastructure, it will, of course, be good, positive because there will be no intervention on agricultural land. It is certainly clear that we need a law that will attract foreign investment, because we are currently somewhere on the tail of countries with regard to foreign direct investment. I hope that systemic legal solutions will also contribute to the improvement of the business environment, and this will also make it inappropriate for all such investments to be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u25	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, which we are considering today and will also, of course, also be adopted, is the most important for one reason, in order to shorten the deadlines for the acquisition of the real estate required for the implementation of this strategic investment. We have already found on the Committee that we are lagging behind in the acquisition of real estate because our procedures are taking an inappropriate longer than others. However, it is also necessary to justify the conditions for the implementation of the strategic investment relating to the fulfilment of spatial and logistical conditions. In his presentation of his position, colleague Han already mentioned the involvement of the area between the highway, railway and airport. Well, that's two main reasons. Let me briefly repeat the key solutions already outlined by the Minister in the supplementary explanation. Thus, the law establishes a development area in the public interest, which is a production zone in the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica and in a certain municipal spatial plan. The strategic investment is defined quite precisely, worth more than 100 million euros, creating at least a thousand jobs in the area. It ensures the long-term preservation of the investment project and production for a period of at least 10 years and, due to the mentioned spatial, technological and logistical needs, is suitable to accommodate this development area, it promotes economic growth and employment and coherent regional development, it specifies a new decommissioning purpose, as it provides that strategic investment in the public benefit of the promotion of the conditions mentioned above – so, in our opinion, it is not contrary to the Constitution – it provides that only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can determine by decision the fulfilment of the conditions for this investment, by which the Government itself assumes a large part of the responsibility for carrying out the investment. As already mentioned, it allows for a shorter negotiation procedure for the acquisition of real estate. We have heard the Minister in his opening statement that he is making great efforts to reach an agreement with real estate owners and that not only this law will be applied, but also the CAP, which is not the Criminal Procedure Act, but a healthy farmer who, I believe, is very well understood by farmers. It also defines the predominance of the public benefit in the process of preparing the municipal spatial plan of the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, so, once again, in our opinion, it is not in conflict with the Constitution and establishes the appropriate protectors, the return of land to agricultural use if the strategic investment is not made within five years, and the guarantee of the investor for the implementation of the investment. When considering and adopting this proposal, however, the importance of foreign direct investment should also be borne in mind, as we are being overtaken by our competing countries, for example Slovakia is a direct competitor, Hungary, the Czech Republic, which should be particularly well understood by those involved in bilateral and multilateral international affairs. Foreign direct investment is the most important form of international economic cooperation. National economies have many positive accompanying effects. This government is well aware of that. The evidence is not only this bill but, above all, the agreements already concluded, among which I should point out the recent – the decision of Japan's Yaskawa to invest €25 million in Slovenia for a development centre that will employ up to 200 people. Data also show that the volume of foreign direct investment in Slovenia is increasing from year to year. The key direction of power, that is to say, all branches of government, must come from the desire and demands of people to ensure a decent life in their own hands. For this, new jobs are a key condition. And in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, of course, we will be happy to support this proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u27	Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for the floor. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica, an urgent procedure. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I inform both the Minister and colleagues that we will not oppose this proposal. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we are aware of the importance of the arrival of foreign investments in Slovenia. We are convinced that Slovenia is one of the European countries where we have the least foreign investment per capita, and we need to think about it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that foreign investors in Slovenia are bringing new jobs. The fact is that they pay taxes here and allow for further development – both local communities and of course Slovenia itself. However, we are concerned, on the other hand, that the arrival of a foreign investor or foreign investment requires a new law. Here we are convinced that something is very wrong and that all the warnings we have already expressed in the past both in the National Assembly and in the general public – this bill is also evidence. We are convinced that it is necessary to approach the provision and attracting of foreign investments in Slovenia – in particular a project approach for which both the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are responsible. The fact is that the environment for the arrival of foreign investors in Slovenia is not the most positive. Indeed, this law is also evidence that we must adopt in an emergency procedure. We propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and above all to the Ministry of the Economy, to try to approach these production or business zones a little earlier and to prepare proposals for business zones, prepare whatever is necessary and then start to market these business or production zones abroad. To market in such a way that foreign investors come to Slovenia. Last but not least, we have repeatedly warned that quite a number of nationals from Slovenia have moved away in the last period. This is mainly about well-paid jobs, as multinationals prefer to move their headquarters to nearby cities and to neighbouring countries, where, of course, the conditions of employment are significantly more favourable than in Slovenia. Finally, the multinationals moved their seat either to Zagreb, Belgrade, Bratislava or Budapest. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if the Government took a more concrete approach to this problem, Slovenia could probably meet all the conditions for foreign multinationals to come to Slovenia. A radical change of legislation and mentality is needed. For many times we have witnessed what we are reminded of both the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce: that due in particular to certain bureaucratic procedures they are opting for other countries, not Slovenia. Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is also a need for a change in the area of taxation and, above all, the burden of wages, because we are convinced that the burden of labour costs and the burden of certain tax obligations that burden economic operators today could make that positive move. Because it is necessary to realize that every opening of a production facility in Slovenia means so many and so many new jobs, so much and so much more contributions to health care and pension allowance and, of course, a higher standard for residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again – we will not oppose this law, we will support it, and the fact is that the law shows that Slovenia is in big trouble in the area of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u29	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u30	Dear Mr. Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! First of all, I would like to commend the Minister for being so active on this issue in attracting foreign investors. We have to commend him here because he is specifically trying to solve some problem in order to bring new jobs and so on. All is well and well and well, but we all know that this is not the lasting and best solution. When we constantly stress in New Slovenia the importance of the economy, the promotion of the economy, the adoption of measures in support of the economy, we are most often confronted with neoliberals. But we are only trying to ensure that people have jobs, that the economy can work and that we do not take measures that are against the economy. And, of course, it is not the minister's fault that we do not have appropriate spatial legislation. This is the responsibility of the Government – and perhaps all governments – where we have done too little to have regulated spatial legislation, effectively and that the public administration would also work effectively and in due course people could get building permits that would be in agreement with the legislation in order to expand their production, open new jobs and so on. We keep talking about this in New Slovenia because there are many such cases in the field. Why, though, I cannot support this law with great joy — but I will not oppose it — because I am aware of the importance of agricultural land. And unfortunately in Slovenia we treat her badly. Our ancestors, farmers, built houses on the slopes to allow fields, fields to remain working surfaces, and to survive. But we do the opposite, and we build on the most beautiful fields or set up shops there or other not necessarily necessary facilities. It is therefore necessary to adopt appropriate spatial legislation as soon as possible, so that at any time we can act as the Minister does, so that someone who offers an investment can make an investment, offer an appropriate location that will not, of course, harm agriculture and food production. Look, I'm not afraid that there will be no such demands and desires in the future. Recently, two months ago, I was in Germany in the vicinity of Frankfurt, where I have relatives, and one of my relatives is dealing with real estate. And because there is one of the most densely populated areas in Germany, yes, what he said – that people who deal with real estate are looking at obituaries and waiting for someone to die or go straight to the door to ring because they want to buy real estate because it is impossible to get new surfaces. Another example: In Bavaria they wanted to buy 600 square meters, one plot for the apartment house, and the price was, with a tax value, 1 million. So I'm not surprised if there will always be potential investors coming from these areas who want the most beautiful land to build there. That's what we need to protect ourselves from. And I always remember the words of a Swiss man who said to me: “Why do we support agriculture, even though food production is expensive for us because we can buy everything in the store? Because we are aware that we need food, food will be a challenge to the future, as will water, and because we know that money, checks and gold cannot be eaten." Hence, they treat their food - producing lands with care. Of course, we need jobs. And there is a crisis for jobs in Maribor and the surrounding area, so thousands of people travel across the border every day, so we have to do everything we can to get them, but, please, the rest of the legislation also has to be properly directed so that investors come, so that we do not put any additional obstacles on them, so that we will be effective and have the right legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u31	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u32	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings to the Minister with the team and fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Today, it is an economic topic, and I am happy to discuss such topics, which are also important for the development of the economy in the future. I note that the Chamber is always fuller on economic issues and that we also in Parliament realize that this is decisive, which we must do in our country, in order to create a better economic environment and conditions for domestic and foreign investors and for our economic growth. Of course, I would welcome the Minister here with a team, which has also demonstrated by this project that it is a well-groomed team of the Ministry of Economy, which with good working practices and content can also work for other ministries, why so. I have repeatedly stressed that the team comes from an economy where experience in project management is more effective than in politics, and this model of action is transferred this time to the Committee on the Economy and to Parliament. So I have to point out here in particular that this is a good team approach by the Ministry, experts from the Ministry, who have managed to interresort with the various ministries that have met at some point where issues need to be coordinated in the fields of agriculture, the environment and infrastructure. On the other hand, I am a little sad if we are being listened to by some potential investors, either domestic or foreign. Some of the debates here are going in the direction of literally driving investors, domestic and foreign, when we try to create an environment with some law that is attractive to domestic and foreign investors. So I want to contribute in some way to the fact that we are not some country that is rejecting foreign investors and that we are responding quickly and at the right time to some business opportunity. Imagine what it would be like if, in the case of the Nordic centre of Planica, we behaved as some debated today, but today we would not have this facility, which now attracts domestic and foreign athletes – and we became recognizable on a global scale. [[…]] And a similar story is here. We need to react quickly and in a way that we will not only be this potential investor, but we have shown to everyone that we are a country that in some way creates an environment that is friendly to different investors. Of course, I am not forgetting agricultural land, but we are here before an important decision when it is necessary to put matters on balance and assess the long-term positive effects of such investments, which bring many jobs, not just those thousands, two thousand jobs. This is a multiplicity of effects across the chain, in the metal manufacturing industry, which will bring positive effects and economic growth. Of course, I'm a little worried here whether in some way I'd be able to paralyze the opposition on the left and also on the right. As far as the left is concerned, I am particularly surprised that when they are fighting for jobs and in some way for social services and so on, they are striving to create them in every way, but when we come up with a concrete project, the platform is reversed here. And here we come up with some different opinions that are certainly not, in my opinion, some real practice. As far as NSI colleagues are concerned, I often follow their efforts, support for foreign investors, the economy and so on, and in some ways I am glad that in this law they have recognized a good project when it comes to this, but this holds me: we are in favour of this law, but we will not support it or we will not vote against it – it is only for once that you have to decide whether you are in favour or not. Similarly, for colleagues from SDS. So I recognize some affection for the law and I would just call them: support it, but surely, let's move on. [[…]] And we're moving on with the joint projects. The same call would also be made for similar projects not only in the Moroccan environment. In general, I am a supporter of polycentric development and we face similar themes in the project, let's say the third development axis, when we are once again more papal than the pope when we put in some place and invent different obstacles instead of realizing this project. Similarly in the Slovenian Forest project, SiDG, where, of course, some do not support wood collection and processing centres across Slovenia. So here, from this place, I would stress that I call on coalition partners as well as the opposition to support such good projects, because this will carry us into a better future, and I will support this law in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u33	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-known minister with a team, colleagues and fellow Members! On the table we have a proposal for a law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the municipality of Hoče - Slivnica. Of course, I will also stop at this amendment, which was put by the United Left at Article 19. I would first stop at the debate we had on the committee. I must say that she was very constructive, that there were many people present, both from around Maribor and of course from the Municipality, which was preparing land for investment. In fact, there were no comments — here and there — that we must also point out that somehow all of us were aware that the land was, unfortunately, whatever the investment was — which we will also have in Slovenia — must be sacrificed to some part of the land. Of course it is a larger amount, but I think that, as previously said, Mrs Ljudmila Novak has also said about the Minister's great involvement in this, he has been in the field and he has also talked to these people, with farmers in this area. I think they have some solutions and they'll find them. So it is right to resolve this so that no one will be harmed to find compensation, if not, but also an appropriate payment for those lands. It should be stressed, however, that in this area, now that we are solving things, there is no need for legislation – which will have to be adopted as soon as possible – that will solve this problem in a spatial way. So at this point, unfortunately, we don't have, but we have to support such investments in the economy, because we all say that we can work and share more money if we're on the income side, that's what the economy says, we're creating a little bit more money. There were also concerns about what it would actually bring, what the salaries of these people who would work — not just the number of people who would work in these potential companies. I must say that this is about foreign direct investment, which is the highest degree of internationalisation and one of the fastest growing, most common and most important forms of international cooperation. This is very important because any such foreign investment brings work to a large number of people. This will be very important for Maribor and its surroundings, because it comes from the desire and demands of people at work and thus for better quality of life. It is particularly important to stress that we are solving the immediate and very specific problems of people – unemployment – which are why the law is adopted. The goal is clear and inspiring. That's why I'm going to support this marriage today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u35	Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and the team! With us in Slovenia, it is never right, you will not believe. Instead of looking at things positive, no, we're looking absolutely negative, looking for hair in the egg, and that's it. If there is no investment in Slovenia, it is wrong and, of course, the Government is to blame. If there are potential investments in Slovenia, it is wrong because – three dots – explain for yourself. It really seems to me that we are becoming some kind of schizophrenic, impatient, irrational society, a society of some great hypocrisy and some great duality. First of all, we insist that there are no jobs, after they are, that they are on agricultural land. People of God, today we move on, we need to find some other solutions. I think we need to be responsible and adult and rational enough to make the right decision. It is clear whether or not we want to have – or not to take – potatoes from a farmer or we want to have employment, say, 2 000 500 people from Maribor and the surrounding area and plus these multiplier effects. And what's amazing – and nobody's ever mentioned here, and I'm just going to say directly – that for the first time in this country, this government had this government, and this minister's balls to decide something and to take a position and to support this investment. Okay, we can argue that this particular law is only for one area, but what's this about? Economic thinking needs to be in the head here. They had a potential investor, at least I suppose, and as in the economy, it was necessary to make a decision immediately. But since we know what it's like to have this bureaucracy with us, with these laws, how it goes and doesn't go and we wait and the committees and everything, they've made up their minds. And here I support them. It is clear, however, that I expect in the future also by MGRT that some systemic law on foreign investment will be made, as the predecessors have already said. And last but not least, the minister himself and the team standing here at his side said that all the alternative options that had been given had been offered to this potential investor. Rather, he decided that by law and by all other legislation, they would review the whole matter if it counted — from natural and all other areas. And in the final stage, if this matter does not develop as it should, this will return to its original form and compensation will be given to farmers. And when we look at all of this, we also need to take this law as a positive signal for foreign investment, that finally Slovenia, this government, this country, is open to all good proposals and good investments and that it is then taken and carried out. It's going, I think, but for some positive story, and that's how we have to watch it. They're pluses and they're minuses, but in the final stage, it takes a decision and a clear definition, and that's why I'm up for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u37	[[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Tonin, as soon as you discuss it, you will be able to replicate. Now I must give the floor to Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. If Minister Restoration made a record of the degraded areas, then the regions that have failed industrially, and made a strategy and offered it to investors, we would all applaud him. They would say, "This government has a strategy." For someone to come, some multinational from the outside, and like a third world country, chooses this, you and we get down on our knees — and here I have a lot of concerns. Why? This is: "Is there any legislation in Slovenia? There we will not be able to build...« “It is legislation, but we can bypass it because we know the Minister.” I mean, how does that sound? If we're going to make a new marriage for every multinational, then I'm worried about it. Here, colleague Ranc mentioned earlier in his discussion that the National Assembly was not invited to discuss the procedures This also happened with TEM 6 investments. [[…]] Here in the National Assembly TES 6 investments were accepted and now we know what corruption has fallen out of this. Now they will receive compensation, these farmers, you say, for expropriation; or a substitute land. Yeah, where are we gonna take her? How many of these substitute lands do we have? We know well that in Prekmurje, the Austrians are already buying fat our agricultural land because they know what to do with it, unlike us. The karst field has already been picked up by Israeli companies. And we're gonna build our own land fat. I also heard it was the first investment since 1991. It's beautiful, it's commendable, it's beautiful, but since then, the agricultural area has been reduced by 100,000 hectares. Seven hectares of agricultural land were built daily. Where are these jobs? What's in it for us now? And here I fully agree with colleague Ludmila Novak: stock, paper, money we will not eat. In Slovenia, we are only unitaryly self-sustaining; regardless of the fact that the Minister for Agriculture of the Social Democrats makes a major move every year. We are talking on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food about self-sustainment and we are doing the exact opposite. In short, it is interesting that we have as many as 2,000 hectares of degraded areas in Slovenia. And research is done; only in the area of the natural region are 211 hectares. And we didn't do anything. I'm also concerned that obviously we're not all the same before marriage. Would our investor, if he wanted to build a building somewhere, also get this leave to write a special law for him? And then they turned down the areas offered. Very interesting. The investor's name isn't known either, and he wants it to remain a secret. Look, I don't know, I wonder if there's any contract, if there's any commitment, how many jobs are going to be here, what are these jobs going to be like? If we said that there are 5,000 500 jobs in Austria on the bad 50 hectares here we are talking completely enthusiastically – hundreds of hectares of thousands of jobs. Whether these will be new jobs or people who are already working in this factory in Austria will only be employed here and will then pay them not as much as in Austria, but less. In short, these are all the questions we are asked. And they're justly standing up to us. It's been said that this is definitely a fact that can't be changed. Why can't it be changed? Because SMC is the biggest customer and she's made up her mind and she's going to back it up. But you know, once the SMC customer has been dusted long ago and no one will remember it, people in this area will still be breathing bad air, living in an environmentally degraded area, having poorly paid jobs, maybe having an environmental, ecological disaster and asking what else – and who will then be responsible for it? In Slovenia we would need at least 850 square metres of land per inhabitant, we would need at least 2,000, we have 850. Just one third. How much longer are we going to build our best agricultural land? How long? And then we hear that we are those who care about environmental standards, food standards, labour rights, eco-terrorists. I don't know, I mean, an ecoterrorist means someone who terrorizes ecology, not the one who defends it. The terrorist is not the defender. I hope we agree on that. There's been a lot of talk about terrorists lately. You also have fugitives on average for terrorists, and probably not everyone who comes here is a terrorist. And ecoterrorists are probably also Indians who defend their holy cities in America, their shrines, their culture, their water against corporations. Then what do we say that there are capitalists? In short, I would say that this moment's government is highly eco-terrorist, even though it is with pleasure and pride that we who care for the environment are dealing with eco-terrorism. I am concerned about the actions of this government, which is acting absolutely unconstitutional, which can violate laws that can be passed by a special law for one investment and for one multinational vehemently. And I want to know what's actually in here from the back. Because no one has the data. I agree, the positive and negative effects need to be weighed. Of course, we need jobs, but at what cost do we have a priority — or the welfare of our people or the profits of foreign corporations? If we could make this right, then this world and this decision would be acceptable. There are so many strangers, so many questions, so many unanswered questions that we simply cannot support them. Therefore, I hope that you will at least support our amendment, which says that this agricultural land will return to use if the investment does not begin within three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u39	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I say, I'd like to tell you, I'd like to commend the work of the Ministry of the Economy. In my opinion, no ministry or any minister has so far been as successful in any government as this minister in this government. And let me back that up with just the last two months, for example. We know that the Japanese robot factory has decided to invest in Slovenia, in competition with several other European countries. And thanks to that, it's definitely the Ministry. Let me mention here also the project NEDO, a project of smart communities, smart networks, which is again due to the good work of this ministry. I will not discuss the urgency and necessity of adopting this law that we are considering today. Of course, the need was recognized for such a law to be prepared and to go to an investor who would bring potential 3,000 new jobs. And that the United Left, which is a quasi-advocacy of labour rights and employment, of course, were until they came to Parliament, and now their Members are probably forgetting their fundamental right in a comfortable parliamentary seat and would even gamble on 3,000 new potential jobs under some of their reasons, cited by them in a region with 17% unemployment. [[…]] Maribor, the wider Maribor region, has a problem region with 17% unemployment or read almost 10,000 unemployed. Three thousand new jobs means that 3,000 families can live on this new factory. And if we assume that each family has an average of 1.5 children, that means that this factory will be able to support 10,000 500 people. Keep that in mind when you say you're against this investment. A colleague of Violet's, of course, discusses multinationals and the harmfulness of these alone – no matter what we think of multinationals, it is the fact that multinationals also create jobs. And then these jobs bring pay, and these wages can buy food. Among other things, you said what we were going to eat if we were to build these fields that are now in this area. I will ask you a different question: What, or what, will make these single - parent families of today’s family out of what or what will they buy food with if they are unemployed?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u41	Before I launch another round of applications, Mrs Violeta Tomić, procedurally, if I am not mistaken. Do we understand each other? Please proceed with procedure, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u42	Look, colleague Zorman is deliberately deceiving here, because either we were talking about a thousand jobs or we were talking about 3,000 jobs or at the end of today's debate we're going to come up with 10,000, 5,000 fantastic jobs? Where are they? Yes, of course, labour rights The United Left represents, and as President of the Party for Ecosocialism and Sustainable Development of Slovenia, I protest against any job that destroys the environment. We also have green jobs, sustainable jobs and, of course, it is possible to develop the economy also in compliance with environmental standards. Labour rights, such jobs that will be poorly paid, which will take profits out of the country and which will leave here only destruction and will not pay enough contributions so that retired workers can be treated with such jobs – thank you very much. [[…]] We're also fighting for farmers' rights. Farmers are also workers. Workers who produce our food, which is the basis for survival. And I'm sorry that SMC thinks food grows in supermarkets. What are we gonna buy this food with? [[…]] We don't have to buy it all. Our great desire is to produce more. More, and we'll buy it less. For we know, and again, that we produce only one third of our food, while our agricultural surfaces are growing, secondly, that we are building them vehemently. I think we need to make sure that we have water, drinking water and food, because in the future it will be worth more than anything else. And I stress that we are not against jobs – I say this today for the 50th time, I can record you and we will spin – but jobs that will handle the environment responsibly so that future generations can live here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u43	Mrs Violeta Tomić, this has not been procedural, but I will start yet another round so that you can discuss the content of all those you want. Procedurally, Mr. Branko Zorman. Did we get along just fine? Will you discuss it or will you discuss it procedurally? Procedural. Here you go. You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to ask you to remind your colleague of what it is meant to do, and to make his proposal, because I have not seen it in this debate. I think they have time, they can appear as many times as they want to, until they're out. So please follow the procedure and report to the debate, because I cannot substantively replicate you on a procedural basis. But if this were your debate, I'd be happy to replicate it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Zorman. But I think Violeta and I have an understanding. Therefore, I propose to initiate procedures so that you can apply, because I see that there are still interests. Here you go, colleagues and colleagues. The application shall be made. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u46	I'd like to answer Ambassador Ferruga. It is clear that the New Slovenia Group is the Group of Members that is most favoured in entrepreneurship and works hard to improve the business environment in this country as much as possible. So please don’t manipulate such things – so that we don’t decide not to know what to do, etc. I am, and we have also made it very clear that we support what the Minister for the Economy is doing, but that these are not systemic measures. One of the things I have highlighted in my position is that other Slovenian entrepreneurs do not have the same options – this is a problem. It is not a problem that the government is trying to bring jobs into the country. The problem is that he works for only one company, not all entrepreneurs in this country. That's the problem. We are not just defending one company, but we want to create a good climate for all entrepreneurs in the country. That's what I said in my position. And the other thing is that this is being placed on the best agricultural land, while in Maribor you have a bunch of degraded land, one pile. One more thing: don't be too euphoric, because one swallow doesn't bring in the spring.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u47	Replica, Mr. Marko Ferruga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u48	I have to tell my colleague that maybe we didn't get along at all. I didn't discuss any of these things that you said. If you've listened to me correctly, I said that I expect from the Minister and this Ministry a systematic law that will regulate investment in general. However, you obviously misunderstood me very badly or did not listen well enough because I made it very clear. But I agree with you that one thing doesn't mean anything. But it can be the beginning of something, as Confucius said: one step at a time. This was done for the first time by showing some attitude towards a major investor who has an interest in coming to Slovenia, and the government responded — this must be acknowledged. We can debate everything, we can debate agricultural land, we can debate everything, but let us say once and for all: it was a positive step and a signal. We can say first pen, second pen, third pen, but it's a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u49	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm gonna take some time. I'm not gonna go around town. I'm not gonna tell you who's after the least of you. But I will try to be very specific. First of all, the SMC's first drink. Competition, we who do a lot of multilateral work, the Slovak Bilateral, the Czech Republic Hungary. Land Rover is on its way to Slovakia and they already have little problems with the labour force in the area of the car cluster. The wages in the car cluster are relatively high, compared to a thousand euro nets, and they have recently introduced the possibility of Saturday and Sunday work for young people as well. They'll get 70% of the salary for that. The Czech Republic is a little too far away. Hungary’s competition, not Hungary, is linked to the labour force and the height of the salary. But, of course, we can improve our competitive advantage by applying a second track. Unfortunately, I must say that Slovakia and Hungary are almost more interested – I get this feeling – when this will come to pass than we are in this society and country. Now I'm gonna go through what Mr. Secretary said. I will start here – Point 5 – that this will happen faster because it will be run by the congregation. This is such a notorious lie. Why? [[…]] The municipality of Hoče - Slivnica has 13 people in the administration, including the mayor, and 11 in the directorate – the municipality and these matters. In this area, the person dealing with the environment and space, the person dealing with the economy and the two dealing with legal matters will not have the time to do so. In short, such statements are literally mockery. We go to point 1 – the development area of the OPR. Mrs. Ludmila spoke for her back. Violeta mentioned degraded areas. What did you do for two-thirds of your term? Within two-thirds of the mandate, there should be a VAT, a state-owned area for degraded areas, and what will be placed there. Now you're all cheerfully clucking about coherent regional development. When I asked Cerar almost two years ago, he didn't exactly tell me like Michi Kordish that he wouldn't stop me this time, but he was mad. This speech today is a mockery from Styria, from Maribor and basically from me personally. Next: international cooperation. I've been to Budapest, and the other person calls me their biggest party and someone else, and where you are Slovenians in tourism. 10 weeks before the tourist season full of Budapest Croatian posters. Ms Roš has done more for Slovenian tourism with that broadcast on Netflix than this department of your ministry. A new decommissioning in the public interest – as we already have the decommissioning legislation and could be amended. And then the minister himself declares that only the government can determine what strategic investments are. And this one is a little strong and severe, no matter what government it is. And this is some new practice. This law, which works on the case, is kind of a trial bunny, how the system law will work. And that's the main and crucial problem. Not the fat lie of a fellow – which I will not punish either in Slovenian or in Serbian – that we are against investment. Of course we're not. I'd like to know if someone would tell me how the University of Maribor will be associated with this. As far as Magno Steyr is concerned, there is a Talum that consumes the most electricity in Slovenia, but it is much better than it used to be, and works semi-manufactured. Will there also be any parts for the engines going in this direction? After all, if you're going to paint your body for the Jaguars, will the colors be purchased in Helios? For my sake, we could discuss this in a closed session, if necessary. In a government where there are two lawyers from three presidents, one is even a doctor of law, the largest client with the largest number of lawyers per square metre, the Minister of Economic Development and Technology is an agronomist, the Minister of Environment and Space is an agronomist.I would like to know if we will agree that there will be a garden on the roof of these factories where these farmers can plant something. In Germany this is a very common practice and in France too. And I'd say, come on, and then I'd squeeze my teeth and support this marriage. I can't be against it either, because I don't actually have all kinds of information. And when the referee tells me – and I will not mention this ecoterrorism, but – any nonsense that the state remembers, every law and regulation in the work When they tell me from the SMC: with this bureaucracy, with these laws you have come as a new policy. Now my cell phone is going crazy because people are telling me what kind of banana republic we are, whether we don't have a law on foreign strategic investments and so on. And those are the problems. The problem is that I've been here all along, what we're going to do with Pohor, and the minister says, oh, the state has nothing to look for in tourism. Except where you overcategorized your former company so that maybe he could privatize it. There are also 500 jobs. So, what, are we gonna wait for three more seasons so they're gonna want to spill more, and then someone's gonna buy them at the price? Now, however, the SMC has suddenly awakened and they will be great promoters and the government has eggs and has accepted our great responsibility Even if this investment goes on, it will be 2018 and beyond when this government is gone. [[Incomprehensible]] So let's stop talking like kids. I have to take some time for the replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u51	The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I really hope that Slovenia is watching us today to be accompanied by us from Styria, Pomurje, Koroška, from all Slovenia, potential those thousands, a thousand 500, three thousand new jobs, or as many as are expected and expected. And to observe this debate, to simply pour themselves pure wine, to see simply what they are for investments, which are against investments, and who is actually fighting to finally get to those jobs, to those added values in jobs that obviously one other country wants. However, I cannot agree at all – and here I strongly protest in a statement by a colleague from the United Left who said that when a multinational looks around third countries and chooses Slovenia, she urges her to change the law and that the investment will take place there. Slovenia is not a third country, please. Slovenia is the country where we live Slovenians who work for wages. Workers fight for wages and some go to foreign countries to survive. The government is eco-terrorist, we degrade the area, we breathe bad air So, one wants all of this, and we now accept it and we will have a degraded area, bad air, eco-terrorist government and I don't know what else I think we should look a little wider and see if Slovenia really deserves this investment or if the Slovenians don't want it. [[…]] [[…]] The reality is probably very different. You say you're against every job that destroys the environment. How do you know this will destroy the environment? They have a fire in the middle of the Danube. They probably wouldn't have it if you degrade that environment and that air that the Danes are breathing. And how often we talk, yes, Vienna, oh and all. The agricultural surfaces are growing for us, you said a little earlier. Yeah, obviously something has to be done, and this government, this ministry has done something in this direction. And now it's all wrong. Everything the government brings to the table is wrong. No wonder we have such a system in Slovenia, such a rating of this Parliament if everything is wrong, what is done. It's all wrong. We have potential new jobs – and it is wrong. I don't know, I guess we're gonna need one big and serious thought about this whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u53	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u54	Look, I can easily bear that SMC has prepared a little bit of us today in its slightly pathetic grip trying to politely insult us, but now I have one serious problem. I don't know if people might have put anything on their teeth before this session because we're talking like francophones now. The Minister speaks a thousand jobs, 2,000 jobs, and 3,000 new jobs. You know, if Magna listens to this, Magna won't come to Slovenia for this. [[…]] If I had, I don't know, half a billion dollars to invest, I wouldn't come into this mess. Colleagues from the coalition should know what the role of the opposition is. No one is opposed to investment, no one is opposed to jobs, but we are opposed to such an act of the rule of law. I mean, these things if I had more time, you'd have a brother from 67 to 76, and with each of these articles of the Constitution, there's something controversial about the way this law is trying to introduce. [[…]] And I didn't think of it, and there are lawyers who are reading the Constitution across political lines and looking at the legal order of this country. And I ask you kindly, Mr President, because there is no minister, let us at last have the Secretary of State – if not, close the meeting – say the actual dynamics of these jobs: whether it will be 500 or a jury or not. And what's the pay? When my Styrians go abroad, they're told what they're going to pay. In Slovenia you can hardly ask if you are going to ask for a job. That's what I talked about yesterday. Are these going to pay the pussies over the industry's collective agreement or are they going to be something else? And then we can really talk about this investment. I have to repeat myself here with my children so I don't think what we're going to cook for the South Please, President, after all it's your responsibility to finally find out what a cat is like in this frog. [[…]] [[…]] Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u55	Dr. Runcho, thank you very much. I'll give it to you as soon as I can. I have to say it again, too, Dr. Duck. You already had this same performance at the beginning, and I also gave you an answer. I don't know what else I could do in this place to satisfy your thinking. Mr. Mag. Bojan Krajnc, please, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u56	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. In fact, this will be procedural, and there will be a procedural question. I ask you whether it is possible to prevent the constant abuse of procedural issues that are not. Mr Trček somehow speaks from his personal reflection about things that are most likely to happen to him – I don't know, I also ask that – happen to him in the morning. Can you prevent us from being insulted? Because when Mr. Duck says that SMC politely insults him, he actually insults SMC. And can we continue to discuss the reported debaters? It threatens that the debate will fall off course due to constant abuse, and please stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thanks, mag. Krajnc. Unfortunately, I cannot and cannot prevent it, because we all have the same rights in Parliament. But I believe Dr. Duck is doing it well, and I believe he also understood what we were trying to agree on. Mrs. Anita Kolesh, you have the floor. We're moving on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! It was said that the decision today was not easy. I say which decision in the National Assembly is easy. For me, all decisions are very important, and many are also very difficult decisions. However, today we are talking about the subject that we have eternally on our mouths to say, we are talking about economic development, jobs and, as a result, a better life. Today, we are also talking about accepting the challenge that for the first time since independence we have come up with one extremely important economic project, which, unfortunately, we must fight for. For 25 years, we have not created the conditions for foreign investors to come to us at a large door. It is true that laws create conditions for a certain investor, and it is also true that this particular investor has a spare location. This is very well said by our secretary when he said that this reserve location is in one of the neighbouring countries; therefore, I am talking about the fact that we have to fight for it in some way. But, dear colleagues, we are not talking about fracking in Pomour, we are talking about an investor project that meets all the high environmental standards in its country. And we're also talking about building in the country, our country, which is by certain scales in the fifth place after environmental care. So I think you're worried, I'm not going to say they're superfluous, but they're definitely much smaller than we want to introduce them here. Agricultural land will come back in case this investment slips out of our hands. That is why it is here — I think — this concern is exaggerated. However, with regard to agricultural land, I would say that we are encouraged to discuss abandoned and agricultural land mainly in such matters, i.e. when we are talking about some economic development mainly in terms of industrialisation of an area. And I want to talk about abandoned and unprocessed agricultural land in a different way, so that in the future in Slovenia – if I paraphrase my colleagues in front of me who talked about clucking – there would be a lot of clucking and peanuting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u59	Mrs. Xenia Krenjak Kramar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I come from the Municipality of Hotch - Slivnica. I come from a congregation for which today this debate is so boisterous and so boisterous. Not only from this congregation, I come from this region. I come from Maribor, from around Maribor. You know, for us in Maribor and for our region, every job is important, it doesn't matter whether there will be a hundred or ten. Everyone is important to us. And I think that this law that we are discussing today is an opportunity. This opportunity, as my colleague said, will ensure the well-being of our people. Who will take care of the well-being of us who come from there. Ours, which will give us the opportunity not to be in the forgotten part of Slovenia. We believe that this will give us the opportunity to earn, with our work, our knowledge to buy healthy food with eco, be, whatever the label is. That's why we're talking about this today. That is why we are talking about this, because we have been talking about these degraded areas all along this mandate, and probably the previous mandates. We're in the field all the time, visiting these degraded areas and trying to attract investors to these areas. But, dear fellows, these areas are often too small. We're also probably talking, I don't know, about the Tezno zone, if that's what you had in mind. Not to tell you how much good will and energy goes on a day, a year and a month to attract an investor into the area Na areas that are still free. [[…]] And how much energy has been lost to get investors into this space. That is why we are talking about this today, and that is why today — and I will — we will support it. This is what we need – Slovenia, the region and the city with its surroundings need. We need this blood, for every job, for everyone coming from this region. And one more thing, I am sure that all the mayors in the region will show solidarity, that they will collide species — as they have done so many times — when it is necessary to seek replacement land, of course, if necessary. I firmly believe that this good will of all of us in this environment will be demonstrated, not only by the ministers, not only by those who have already walked on the ground and have been a bloody battle for us to adopt this law today. I firmly believe that it will prove that we are for these investments, that we are for jobs, that Slovenia is the one who wants this; wants a breakthrough, wants economic growth, wants accelerated economic growth. For you know, I think this will have a positive effect not only on the economy and on the multiple growth, on the environment itself, on the region, but on the whole of Slovenia. And one more thing, we were talking about small entrepreneurs. Small entrepreneurs will also benefit in the final phase from this big project, which will be when it is. But you know, even the DN, my respectable colleague, let's be honest – this environment has been struggling for decades to settle this space, which is such a strategically important intersection of different routes, both air-, road and rail. We've been fighting for decades. And now we have a chance to show whether we really care. Do we really care about something happening in this area and finally giving Maribor and the region an opportunity to give people the opportunity to show that we care about people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u61	Gradually, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u62	I have a procedural proposal. In view of these discussions, I believe that we are having a debate and we are not listening at all. To talk past each other, to tell us what we didn't say at all. Because we say that we want jobs, but that things are not arranged systematically and that we also need to look after agricultural land. Therefore, I propose that, Mr President, you suggest that we all put on headphones because we obviously do not hear each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u63	We've got another procedural one. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you. When they ask me who I work with, I usually say with Mrs. Ludmila. And they're looking at me, and I'm serious because the lady as a politician has made herself. That was a compliment now, Ludmila, and I agree with that. My colleague said it very well. I come from this region too. Maribor, page 18 of today's Evening: In I want a discussion on an integrated transport strategy. How can Mr Soršak and the CPS team work if we do not know how many of these jobs will be here. I come from the spatial profession and I work and work here to the best of my ability – and now I will be an eco-terrorist up and down – and when I propose something substantive procedurally, as I am in violation of the rules of procedure. My procedural proposal is: whether we follow the recommendation of the experienced politician, Mrs Ljudmila, or whether the President is, after all, allowing or hearing the substantive points of the procedural process. Don't mind me saying that. If you are elected to another position today, you will have to do so there, and it will probably be as difficult as in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u65	I accept Mrs Ludmila Novak's procedural proposal to start listening. But I suggest we move on. Mag. Marko Pogačnik – mother of another procedural – please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u66	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! And now I've become a little worried. I am concerned that there is such an attitude in Parliament towards some important investment that we are talking about. We are not aware that the representatives of this company who is supposed to come to Slovenia are likely to watch this meeting or at least get a magnetogram. I'm sure that's sad. If we continue to have such a debate as is now in the National Assembly, I am afraid that someone will decide to flee from such a Slovenia. Because Parliament is a mirror — both to the general public and to these foreign investors — and it will say, where we are coming today we are not even aware of what kind of debate is going on. [[…]] I think we need to join forces here, and if anyone has any better suggestions, we should propose it to the government. Today we have this law on the table, but it is up to us to decide on this law and welcome every proposal – as we have said in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, what we expect in the next step from the Ministry of Economy and this government. But it's not like we're gonna stick around here where, where and whether one agricultural land is now going to become walled or not or what kind of damage it's going to do. We don't even know what we're talking about. Let us be aware that not only Magna, but also probably other foreign investors who are testing Slovenia in some way, whether they will come or not – if they look at this meeting, I think everyone will decide about neighbouring countries. Dear Presidents, I expect from you – probably also some delegates who will give their votes this afternoon – to watch this meeting – to lead the meeting more decisively. If there is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, give a warning to someone and follow these Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thanks, mag. It's a cakemaker. Of course, I can intervene in a certain part, not in the substantive part. Therefore, constant calls from my side and also from one another are that, for the first time — we listen, for the second time — we stick to the darkness and the third time — that we do not abuse the procedure, more than in the place. Therefore, I propose that we continue our work, and I also ask you, Dr. Duck, and all others to continue on this path. If anyone else wants to discuss it, just raise your hand and he'll get the chance if time permits him. Mag. Bojan Krajnc, you have the floor, and we continue on the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be right on my way. I would like to start by thanking my colleague Pogačnik for making it even clearer what I have already wanted in the procedural question. The raised thumb of Comrade Duck – I see it will help to keep the debate going the way we all want it to. The debate is called the debate on the amendments, so first something about the amendment of the United Left. In Article 19, in the first paragraph, the words “five years” would be replaced by the words “three months”. This applies to this: if the investor does not start carrying out a strategic investment and this land is returned to the agricultural land. From the explanation of this amendment, I must say that I do not see a particularly valid, strong or convincing argument about why you went from five years to three months. It's a very large reduction. You'd still understand that you went on four or three years but for three months? [[…]] What's behind it? In her discussion, colleague Violeta Tomić touched on this very briefly at the end by simply saying what the amendment had already stipulated, but we did not hear any specific arguments – nor did others. So I would like to ask, colleague, if, in the course of your discussion, you can make a little more reasonable reference to the reduction of five years to three months. While you write in your explanation that this is really a problem of agricultural land; and this amendment seems useful to me because it nevertheless opens up some of the broader aspects that this bill also opens up, and these are land. With this, of course, I do not mean to say that I will start speaking on my own now in contrast with my previous views, but this country or this area — even in other countries, historically speaking, 100, 200 years ago — has some development. We used to be in feudalism, where agricultural production was the dominant method of production, but now we are in capitalism, where we have other ways of production. Of course, it's a conflict between different ways of production, but when we talk about agricultural land, we have a policy that also has a historical context, and in this case we can also talk about urbanization and migration of the population from rural to cities, the expansion of these zones, the construction of roads, the growth of traffic. Sometimes there was no airport in Maribor, there were fields there, and then they built the airport, and there was no highway, and they built the highway. And sometimes there were no potential investors for such big projects, and now there are. And there's probably something built there. But what I think my colleague and ZL are trying to do is some broader problem that should probably be dealt with by another competent working body. Here is the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, perhaps you should consider proposing a thematic meeting on the loss of agricultural land and on the recovery of the measures that have been taken so far – how they are being implemented and so on. In order for this concrete investment to suddenly cause food problems, the self-sustainment problems that have been since before, but this is, in my opinion, the manipulation that you are introducing with the explanation of this amendment, which, after all I have said now, I say that the procedural amendment was tabled yesterday at four o'clock in order to open the debate. Because if there were no amendments, there would be no such debate. With this, of course, I do not want to say that this debate is not good and that it is not necessary, it will soon turn in the right direction as far as we can see. Finally, we will come up with important issues in other areas. Because in the economic field, the positive effects of this potential investment will undoubtedly be. What is a potential investment? He was already asking his first procedural question, namely, that he did not know anything about it and that he did not want to read newspapers, even though he later read about something in front of us. And of course we can read about it. You are supported by some information — or we are all — that we track from the media or read on our websites. But of course there is some agreement here that is common in the business world, and this is that agreements are respected. The Ministry of Economy, which held talks with a potential investor, agreed with him and pledged that the specific name would not be given until it was 100% clear that the investment would be. Is it so hard to understand that this arrangement is respected? In the business world, there's something about the word. It is therefore quite understandable that we are not going to be talking about a particular company from a particular company here, which you have visited or have not, but you have read on the website that they will or will not be something, but that it is a potential investment. And by the way, marriage isn't just about one investor. In the same article as you are amendments, paragraph 3 discusses what happens if the Ministry receives multiple applications from different applicants. And 100 hectares, of course, offers an opportunity for all those who will be applicants. However, if only one will meet the investment conditions set out in Article 5 – and I hope that you will not say that EUR 100 million is small and that a thousand jobs are small and that the 10-year duration of this project is limited, because then I do not know if we are all yet reasonable – then this is what this congregation, this region and this country needs, even for people to be able to buy agricultural products, as someone has already warned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u69	Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, fellows! I'll be quick because we don't have much time left in the SMC. I agree with a colleague from the United Left or colleagues so that a second location can be found. And in fact, this law is not necessary either. But you know, this new location, these new jobs, especially for young people, will go across the border, will not stay in Slovenia. This new location will cross the border. And, yes, if that's what we want, just support that new jobs, instead of being created in Slovenia, are created elsewhere, across the border – if that's what you agree with. Let me stress that no environmental legislation is being violated, as some claim. But the process is accelerating. This is a fact, and it is extremely important in the economy – that the adoption of an environmental permit is not taking place for too long, some average time is more than 12 months. Since the beginning of my mandate, I have been advocating for young people, young people who need new jobs, particularly attractive ones. I stand for people who want to work and take care of themselves. And I believe that by confirming this marriage I am doing this today. You know, I would also be happy if this law could support the congregation from which I come, for the Municipality of Tržič. I would love to do that, because we also have quite high unemployment there, and I believe that young people who do not have the opportunity to work there today would be happy to work. However, any decision must be regarded as a benefit. And here we have decided that the public benefit of jobs is the most important. This does not mean that we do not want to take care of farmers — farmers who own Hoče - Slivnica in that area — and that we do not want to help them. I think today it has been repeatedly said that the Minister is working hard and is in personal conversations with them. My colleagues, I am extremely pleased that you are also fighting for the rights of the workers. But, you know, it takes one basic condition — workers have to work to be able to fight for workers’ rights. For the unemployed, it is difficult to fight for the rights of workers — if they are unemployed. Finally, let me tell all potential investors that this government, that we are members of the coalition and that we are supporting new investors and that we will do everything possible to enable them to invest in Slovenia as soon as possible under the existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u71	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u72	I'm sorry, Milan, I have to come back. Mrs. Ludmila used to say I don't know if you were in your party - but I don't want to say bad - they didn't wash their ears or what? [[…]] No one here is against investment, no one is against new jobs, and we've been listening to this mantra since nine. I can take personal insults up and down, but I'll say – it's really going a little over the edge. Okay, it's a nice prepared pianist political performance for your party, but that's already overkill. Really. Again and again from all opposition parties, who have some serious concerns about the procedurality of such a matter, and if we listen carefully to the last SMC speech that we invite investors under existing legislation, why do we adopt this law? [[…]] Please stop complaining about us. This is my procedural proposal. On this level. On the level that something is being said that neither of us from the opposition claimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u73	As far as I understand, there have been too many of these procedural issues today, and I would ask that we stick to the debate itself and not abuse them in any other way or in any other way. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u74	Your Honor, thank you for your word. The fact is that Slovenia is an unfriendly country to investors. Both domestic and foreign investors. A well-known successful entrepreneur, Mr Akrapovic, said that it took 10 years for each of his new investments. This is unreasonable and unacceptable. And if we look at other major investments in the country, whether they were for a national purpose or they were for an economic purpose, it's the same story everywhere. Long years, unnecessary procedures, stalling, short, animosity to extremes. To set up one windmill, it took us 10 years. In order to place the last leg of the lower highway, it took 12 years, and the third development axis has been placed for 8 years and has not yet been placed. I don't know how many, I don't think five years, but he hasn't been set up yet. Then we wonder why there are no foreign investors and foreign investors. What do we have in Slovenia to offer them? Do we have any planned projects? Tell me one, not one. [[…]] Yeah, do we have any idea what we got? [[…]] The broken-down companies, that's what we can offer them. And with a lot of financial obligations in the back. We can offer them that. And then today, when I hear this, I would say the unreality in this debate here – yes, but we have to take care of the food; yes, we would, but we have to take care of Nature 2000; or yes, we would, but we have to listen. See, if any of the potential investors are watching this session, and this is "I would, because I would, but, "Look, this is not serious. [[…]] I'm not serious. If it is necessary for any investment to speed up the procedures, the law will be adopted to make things happen faster – any such law will be supported. I would like to see three such investment laws prepared at each session of the month. That would be my wish. Today, when one opportunity is ready, however, there is so much yawning and so much "buttocks, but". Look, we're not serious. Unserious. Full of words, however, when one concrete offer is to be made on the table; an offer that does not contain a thousand "ampaks" and a thousand obstacles, and then I do not know. [[…]] I don't understand you. I really don't. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, I'm saying, those of you who have so many amps with these dilemmas. But I would like to suggest that if this is the way and the key to somehow bypassing all this unfriendly legislation to the investor, then we should adopt a similar law for each investment. That things will happen faster in Slovenia. And not just for strangers, now that we're talking about a thousand jobs. No, I suggest we make our own law for ten jobs if necessary. Even for ten jobs. Just so things move from words to actions. Of course, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u75	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, on the one hand we weigh the value, the potential for food production, these are agricultural land. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, it's 100 acres. To imagine a little bit, it's 10 times 600 square meters or if I put this area in the correct geometric figure, squared, it's one kilometer times one kilometer. That's the potential. We are probably the only parliamentary group besides the coalition that has invited the Minister to our parliamentary group to tell us the things he cannot do publicly. Because I know that when the government negotiates with an investor, it's not all public affairs. I hope he told us everything. He ensured that agricultural production would not stop. He won't. That's assured, even though I'm sorry he didn't write it down in law. And I know that the Minister is trying not to have to lose a lot of words about the fact that he who comes from the economy knows best what new jobs mean. And I, who come from eastern Slovenia, know best what new jobs mean. That's why I'm so bad about this government taking 3.5 million from Pomura. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you haven't said a word about this. It's not fair. It's not fair. The government has to respect the laws like me and each of us. And the government has simply turned on the law on development support to Pomurje. I also understand that the Government will have to make a lot of efforts because the investor is supposed to lay the condition that on 1 July 2017 there should be a building permit on the table. It's a brutally difficult business, but it can be arranged. I'm in favour of solving this. But here we have a systemic problem with the non-systematicity of the law. I will also ask the Minister, when he comes here, because I have several cases where craftsmen with their own money, Slovenians, have built production spaces, large for 40 people on the outskirts of Ljubljana, a mess workshop. [[…]] He trained his sons to the university level. He's 18 years old since the facility was standing because he had a building permit. They took it from him because some of his boys, gentlemen around him, were teasing him. He got a second building permit, and they took him back. And now it's without a building permit, and the facility stands – 18 years. Is this a normal country? It's not a normal country. And I will ask the Minister to give the Government the initiative to resolve such cases. All it takes is the categorization of a single road passing through this facility. This is crazy. This is not a normal country. Some of you have told us: I am New Slovenia, you are striving for the economy. Of course, for all the same. For domestic investors, foreign investors. But if we're going to make every investor's marriage now, what happens? The investors will blackmail us. That's what we're afraid of. We should have long ago set some frameworks, some conditions, including as regards tax legislation, some tax stability. And in Novi Slovenije we have prepared spatial legislation that would allow for faster placement of such facilities into the space, and we have given these documents to Mr Keseljjevic, who knows SMC, and to the Ministry of Environment and Space. We didn't get any answers. The Emissary Group does not receive an answer. Then how can one last citizen in this country get an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u77	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to all present! I have already said a lot in the presentation of Desus Group's position, however, because it seems to me that this matter is so important and because it is located at this location in northeastern Slovenia, on the outskirts of Maribor, I think it is right to say more. First of all, to understand each other correctly, I have never been and never will be an advocate of any multinational, I will never defend some of the interests of the world's multinationals who would come to Slovenia and “harale” here. But I think, not that I think, I am sure that the debate on the proposal of this law is not at all about this dilemma. It's not at all that some multinational around here is imagining, wanting and blackmailing. This is a proposal for a law which, as a lex specialis after an inappropriately fast procedure, allows us to allow a potential investor to invest in Maribor or North-East Slovenia. It is sad to see when I am driving to Ljubljana in the morning, how a kilometer ahead of the location where a potential investor is supposed to invest and employ people, there are cars parked in parking lots. From all corners of Maribor and the surrounding area people come and then together they go to work in Ljubljana. The same stand on other parts of Maribor cars waiting for the Mariborians and the locals when they go to work abroad, to work in Austria. I think it's time for us to move from words to action and start helping Maribor with actions. You know, in the former country Maribor was the first center of industry, the industrial centre, the mill pool was full of companies that produced, where people got jobs and allowed themselves and their families to exist. In the area of the car and engine factory – it was a city in the city. A few thousand, over 10,000 employees in the best of times today, of course, is not the case. [[…]] And there was Metalna, and there was TVT, not to mention My Maribor had the most negative fate and suffered the greatest economic damage that we could ever imagine. [[...]] And the consequences are such as: the area is deprived, the area has the highest number of unemployed as it is said, it is time to allow investors – as well as if they are foreign investors – to come to create new jobs. [[…]] Of course, when we talk about new jobs, it is absolutely necessary to have in the lease that these jobs are of the highest possible added value, that they are jobs with decent pay, that there is no violation of the law, and that people are allowed — both to work here and to their families — to live a decent life. And the country will have some of this, not just Maribor and its surroundings. Contributions will be paid, taxes will be paid, and I think people will be able to look optimisticly into their future. Of course, no decision we make here, or most of those decisions are not uniform, is just such a dry gold when we see it and make it. There are also some concerns that I personally had at the beginning, so I wanted from all those responsible, both from the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, from the proposer, the Ministry of Economy, to receive some clear and unequivocal answers. Clear and unequivocal questions have mainly been raised about whether this potential investment will harm agriculture, and will harm the environment. The answer was no. Any investment to be made here will comply with environmental rules and legislation in this area. And if we are not afraid of this, we also have legislation in the field of labour, that is, in the field of work. And I believe that a potential investor is welcome. Several investments in Maribor and the surrounding area fell into the water. Why they fell into the water, we can only guess. Whether the ambitions were premeditated or precipitated or the throwing was full of feet, it was difficult to speak now. In fact, these investments have not been made and Maribor is still as poor as it is – in many ways poor. And I think this should be done slowly. Of course, I expect in the future – as the Ministry of Economy's opening statement has made clear that we have to prepare a system law here – that no specific law, lex specialis, will have to be adopted in any possible new investment, but that it will be regulated by one law that will bring systemic solutions. Again: I expect jobs from this investment. There are absolutely jobs — 2 000, 2 000, 500 of them — I would like them to be even more inappropriate — and I believe they must take precedence over your concerns. 3,000 jobs are not coughing. There is talk of a figure of 3,000 over the next few years. The strategic investor who is defined in the bill as one that will bring – and this is now possible – the dilemma that the numbers do not make the most sense – at least a thousand jobs, and this is not a cough, colleagues and colleagues, and will make at least 100 million euros. I think that it is correctly defined and that, as colleague Han said in the introduction, it is necessary to be, at times and in particular, a little bit savvy here, to go into this matter, to be brave. Of course not with the throat into strawberries, but still go into this project, allowing, create those conditions for the economy to actually invest here. I sincerely expect that there will be no need for decommissioning or decommissioning, although of course I understand the farmers in this area as well. And it is right to try to achieve as much as possible by negotiating with the country. But I believe, given the negotiating skills of those negotiating, including the minister, that they will achieve here that there will be no need to cut at the most unpopular step, after the most unpopular move. And at the end of the day, I expect new jobs, I expect jobs that will be long-term, which will bear decent payments. I expect social security to be the widest possible circle of people, and I expect that environmental and other legislation will not be in breach of all of this. And I want a happy, successful and, above all, a fast way to enforce this law and to get an investor to our places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u79	The text is by Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When I first read this law, I thought for the first time about the question, ‘ Is a system law worthy of support? ’ But when I looked into this subject and into this content, that question was no longer raised. In short, I believe that this is the message value of today's decision in terms of the overall development of the economy in Slovenia. Although we must agree that we are really talking about a specific law, i.e. a lex specialis law. But I hope, and in view of all the girls we have experienced in the past years in the field of economics and finance, I hope that the Government has really thought this through, all those nuances that have been exposed here today as a dilemma. And I am sure that this desire is that, in that particular region, the Eastern Slovenian region, in particular in the area of Maribor, provide these options and that it is of utmost importance at this time that this law is adopted. I would like to emphasise, although I personally do not agree with exceptional solutions, but in this case, in terms of the integrity of economic development and the area, I believe that the right decision is to support this law. There was a lot of dilemmas exposed. I hope that, from an environmental point of view, from the point of view of the structure of future workers, as well as from the point of view of weighing when fertile land is used for other purposes, that the Government has indeed done all the necessary analysis here and that these proposals or provisions in this law are indeed worthy of support. As I have already pointed out and, as my speakers have mentioned, I hope that this has indeed been the case and, given the relatively short time, it has not approached the substantive solutions somewhat superficially, campaignally, but that indeed matters have been regulated consistently. There's a little support for this law on my part. However, I would like to see all these substantive issues relating to the systematic regulation of this area appearing as soon as possible on our benches, because, in fact, despite the fact that this is a matter of communication at this time and in this case, it is important that this message be made available to all potential investors, to all interested parties at any time. Although I can agree with Mr Žnidar, who said that he would ever support such a law, I will support it at the end of the day, if it is 15 jobs, but it is only important that things are systematically regulated, if possible. In particular, I would like to stress what Mr Pogačnik has previously pointed out very thoroughly and also very supervisoryly. If there are too many dilemmas and obstacles to such options are placed, this will be the worst message we can send. Above all, this is the primary reason that my support for this law will also be ensured. But since we are talking at the end of the day about the content of the amendment's support, although this content has now become, I will say, second-rate in this debate. I believe that the amendment cannot be supported, not because the United Left has tabled it, but because it is really such a short time-limit that it is really impossible to guarantee within three months the honest same obligation laid down in the law so that I cannot give a firm answer, while the law will, of course, support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u81	Before I give the word forward, he's got the word "mag." Aleš Cantarutti State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you, President. Allow us to respond after two hours to some of the issues raised or raised in the debate itself. First of all, as far as I'm concerned, once again, this whole marriage, I sincerely hope, we won't need it at all. But still, because we're trying and we want to do everything we can to avoid losing this potential investment, that's why we're here today. As far as the proposed amendment is concerned, we believe that this deadline is unrealistic and that the proposal itself is unrealistic. In three months, something serious is also difficult in the business world. Now it's about the very thoughts or questions that have arisen. First, of course, answer to the United Left. We have spoken with all parliamentary parties, parliamentary groups, to those who have asked for more information. I must say that we have a potential investor, we do not want to talk about a name on purpose, because it is part of business practices in such negotiations. And those of you who asked us, as my colleague had said before, but we came with no difficulty, what we could say and explain, is that we do not say in front of each other, but we are all at our disposal, the House of Agriculture and Lands, NGOs, all those who have asked us, we do not hide anything, what is behind all this, nothing but jobs, believe me. And I also hope to place my function, my place in this context at my disposal. As far as the location is concerned. It is true, it is not the best thing to interfere with agricultural land now and to build up a lot of work with it, but unfortunately, we have offered, once again underline this, to a potential investor of various possibilities, even in the vicinity of Tezno it was mentioned today, drawn up or offered to them. Unfortunately, this business model, which this potential investor needs or has, requires larger areas in one piece, which are potentially close to communications, i.e. roads, railways, and which are not that far from the centre of this factory. I think I just said a lot. And I'm really sorry, but that's the way it is. I'm simply not available here, we can't force him or here, you know, others are waiting for us to fall, in our own words, not in Slovenia, in other countries. [[…]] True, but we are simply forced to go into this change of purpose, to be on this land. A lot of populism has been heard here in these two hours, and I'm going to have one. Our minister was throwing shit in the barn at 5:00 this morning because he's got cattle, and some of you know it. And believe me, he knows very well what it means to have land, to take care of livestock, to take care of food if you want. And also his decision, and I think he made it clear when you put 100 hectares of land on the scale that's in some triangle, but we have to have this in front of us, highways, railways, airports, not ideal, but when you put this on the scale and the jobs that are promising, then the decision is more than on the palm. As far as the number of jobs is concerned. I have made it very clear on the committee that today you have highlighted this – and I have this to deceive, you talk about a thousand, and I don't know how much more – that the law states that it is a strategic investment that foresees at least a thousand jobs, at least 100 million investment and 10 years, which has been mentioned many times today. This potential investor, however, intends in three stages, I can say this about this investment publicly, by 2022, 2023, assuming that even in the business in which it operates, everything will go as expected, if I am fully accurate, 3 000 54 employees. We are also divided as to how much “blue collar”, “white color”, as they say, and also about what this means about the salaries and incomes of these employees. But I can't do that, and I can't speak in public. Once again, if you would like to, we have no trouble coming and explaining to you what we are to others. I hope that this will not be the law for any such investment. This potential investor is the largest of Slovenia's independence, with so much investment, so many jobs. I think it is justified that we are also trying to ensure by this law or show it all the seriousness and intent that it is welcome in Slovenia. However, it is also what Nova Slovenija has pointed out that it is not a systemic measure. Indeed, we have begun to modify and prepare this law before this offer, but because it is an extremely complex law, by the way, it will be called the Foreign Direct Investment Act, and, if not, the Slovenian and foreign investors, and because it is such a complex law, because we can also develop incentives, including obtaining permits, all of this, and there is a lot of ministries involved, of course we do not want to rush, and this opportunity has actually overtaken us, we recognize that. We have said several times that this proposal for an investment law will be in your pockets by the middle of the middle of the year. And I'm really counting on us to do a lot of things. This experience, of course, is good for us to see where the reserves are, where we can be more efficient, where we can be faster, what is perhaps some unnecessary obstacles and bureaucratic procedures. And we're going to learn something from this, and even if this investment is in the end, God forbid, maybe it won't. Even with this obvious lack of equal opportunities for Slovenian and foreign investors, I cannot fully agree, I do not want to. We have only helped the Slovenian company in Kočev in the last few months with a significant contribution to their development projects, we have called for 15.3 million euros in development incentives, which are largely for Slovenian companies. A team working at the Ministry to remove bureaucratic barriers and some nonsense that also occurs in expanding and seeking additional options has only produced around 5 million savings over the last six months, if I may say so. It probably doesn't sound much, but it's important savings, which also give companies some faith that things in this area are changing in Slovenia. That's not exactly how I feel about that. Let me get back to what I can say right now about this investment. At these jobs, the total value of this total investment is a good 400 million. Why is the investor actually talking to us, so why is he thinking about Slovenia? Because in their production, employees of people from both Slovenia and some neighbouring countries have the advantage in people, in abilities, in competences, in the knowledge we have of Slovenians, because we are a technical nation, we must recognize this, and in belonging, in the future. Look, these have been very clearly exposed to certain advantages that we have. We're more expensive than that. It is, probably due to some tax burden and so forth. However, what we can offer weighs our shortcomings. Also, the location, if we are completely discovered, in the immediate vicinity of the motorway, in the immediate vicinity of the railway line, with the possibility of an extraction track, and in the immediate vicinity of the airport. By the way, the airport, which is close to a potential investor, creates 30% of its traffic at the expense of this factory; I am not saying that this will happen with the Maribor airport, but this is certainly a good opportunity. It was also mentioned what this means from the point of view of employment and whether we even have these opportunities and potentials, given that the investment is divided into several stages. As I mentioned, by 2022, 2023 employment will also take place gradually and we do not see any problems in not having enough people, our people, namely Slovenians, to fill these jobs. I absolutely think that's okay. Once again, this potential investment is largely linked to this area. Actually, we don't have any maneuvering space here to look for any other solutions. So here, take it or leave it. And I think we all have to do everything together to make this possible. As it is said, if this investor does not eventually decide on this, I think that these land will be in the original use, i.e. back agricultural, because, as I mentioned at the outset, this offer, to say so, or an opportunity so great, does not happen every day, has not actually happened in the last 20 years. We're trying to make more. And in case we lose that opportunity, someone else would occupy this area, but we are aware that this will be very difficult. In the end, as far as degraded areas are concerned, as far as industrial zones are concerned. True, we have a lot of them in Slovenia. There was a time when economic growth was growing and when, in fact, every congregation wanted to have its own industrial, business, crafts, and I don't know what zone, that was pretty messy. We have also tackled this challenge, digitising what we have in Slovenia. And when the other investors come, believe me, we offer first what we have, just like we do in this case. By no means do we want to interfere with the areas, even agricultural ones, because very well, I say again, we are aware of what this means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u83	Because it's still an interest in the debate, I'm asking you to apply. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, I don't have more than five minutes, I have to admit that I signed up last to tell you some anecdotes, why Magna is coming to Slovenia at all, and what that key is. So far, I've been kind of quiet, I've been modest, and now I'm gonna tell some stories. First anecdotes. Once, the Styrians wanted to put Peter Podlunska on the Red Bull team. Very simply, Mr Walter Wolf called Didi Mateschitz at the time and said, the boy is Styrian, Styrian is holding with Styrian and Styrian is helping Styrian. He said to get acquainted with our team, and Mr. Podlunšek is a member of the Red Bull today. During the second Janša government, I had some privilege to be with Mr Frank Stranch at one dinner, Mr Pagech is the majority owner of Magne, has a property of 1.5 billion euros, and then I asked whether Magna was thinking of coming to the territory of Slovenia. He said he couldn't promise it, they were closing a project, I think Jaguar or BMW, but he said, "What will you convince me of?" I said, I will convince you that as a Styrian you returned from Canada, set up and raised on the mountain of the Magna Werk Cup, and I will convince you that the Puh Slovenian was a Slovenian, was a Styrian, though some would say Prlek. I said, secondly, I will convince you that we are both Styrians, however, one Austrian Styrian, one Slovenian Styrian, I said, once Gradec was the cultural center of Styria and Maribor was the industrial center of the Styrian Century. I said, Maribor and the area belongs to this factory. I said, "How pleased are you with the workers, Mr. Pagech?" He said: “Slovak workers take precedence in Magna because I have a good opinion on Slovenians, and especially on Styrians.” These are very simple stories, but look, fellas, what you did at the time. It was a big secret, fighting not only one investor, some people are still, in this area there are quite a few areas that Magna is currently investigating where they are potential. But look what you've done in this term. When SDS proposed a dual school system, you ran us over. When you raised the profits from the income of legal persons, you cut off the finger of the Minister and the Secretary of State for the Economy. When you've given the order to the public, we've returned to you on January 2nd, the distinguished President of the National Assembly, and I'll tell you that now Magna will consider the whole of Europe, which is in the Magna Group, which has 90,000 people, is not free on January 2nd, but they are doing it because the market demands it. Slovenia will have a holiday, thereby destroying exactly such investments as this because you do not know the economy because you do not know how to go through stories. And when I hear with this also the Messengers of Styria, you have not done a single thing to make it better in Styria. This is a private story, literally, just like my friend Tanko has a private story. In Ribnica he laid some foundation of some economy and today the Rybnica with Yaskawo is a great story, and this is a local story, it has nothing to do with Slovenia. And at the end of the day, let's look at Webber, there's a socialist story going on in Kočev. The brake is on the verge of survival. The pond, five kilometers away, has nothing, but it's top-notch, you could say, top-notch, with super-economic stories. These are stories that are over with socialism, gentlemen. I want to be Styjerec, I am Slovenian first, I am French, like Franz Pagech, then I am Styjerec, then I am barely a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, then I am Slovenian. And now it's about Styria, it's about being normal, but it's not normal for us to have to make special laws. We should work in a special business environment in order for investors to stand before the Ministry of Economy and just talk about when they will come. But, look, the business environment needs to be set up! It is necessary to change the school system, engineers and techniques in Slovenia to raise, the dual school system to change, to lower taxes and so on, so that I do not explain because I have too little time. So, the story of Magne coming in, I'm not going to brag, but it's the story of some dinners, some stories where someone asks where Styrian Styrian asks to come here to Slovenia. And be as quiet as possible, shut down, let's vote in favour as soon as possible, so that at least he doesn't see the public, especially those who accompany us, the lobbyists from Magna, who will follow us and translate it now, so that they won't be able to make the last decision that it's a really uncomfortable business environment and that they don't have anything to look for here. Please, all those of you who are to at least help us here. Therefore, my fellow Secretary of State, of course all support, you are doing well in this case, and I hope that you will tell the coalition what they have been doing for the last three years. Magna has big orders, it's not just an engineering company to let you know, it's manufactory knowledge. This means that some companies that have a lot of production, Magnes give, and because Magna is also the fourth industrial revolution, it has total robotics and everything is integrated, so they are very competitive and therefore companies are giving more production to Magna. And look, the fourth industrial revolution, the EUR 50 billion in Europe is to develop competitiveness, the Czechs are there, the Poles are there, Slovenia is not even worth mentioning because whatever you are, you destroyed at this point. But now, see, this is not about the coalition, the opposition, and every economic law in this mandate has supported the SDS, so that the public will find out who is for the economy and who is for the future. And we're going to walk in here together, that's what we have to do. So please, let's not say anything else, let's vote for it, let's give it to our people in Styria, let's at least give this a chance to make it work, let's get this investment to Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u85	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Mr Secretary told the Ministry a few things and, among other things, that if the investor fails to decide, these land will be returned to agricultural use. The summer of this, he said our proposal was inconclusive. We just want to know if the investor is serious, because if the investment doesn't start, why wait five years if he can return to agricultural use earlier. This is also the answer to Mr Kranjec, who wanted us to say a little more about this amendment. In short, regulating the conditions for this investment is definitely controversial both from a legal point of view and from a spatial point of view, contrary to Article 67 and 71 of the Constitution, which deals with the protection of agricultural land. A hundred hectares of agricultural land with a rating of 80 or more will be built. We only have one percent of such quality agricultural land. You have to understand that taking care of this is a priority. We therefore propose that, in the event of non-investment, agricultural land should be returned to agricultural use and more suitable areas should be sought for investments in the Podrav region. Our proposal, of course, is not to wait five years in this case. That's what our amendment is talking about, who would like you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u87	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you very much. And I have to say, I'm disappointed in the debate. The only one who was real who said, as they say, was Ljubo. I absolutely share my opinion with him. Colleagues from New Slovenia who have a kobayagi concession on some economic topic are discussing in such a way that, whatever happens, they can say, "Well, did we tell you?" That's very bad, and that doesn't mean anything to me. Unlike most of us, I think we need a special law for this investment. It's not true that we could have lower taxes, and it's not true that we don't even know how much better the entrepreneurial environment would have been, that company wouldn't have made a decision about Slovenia. Because this company chose Slovenia only because of the location, because of the highway, because of the proximity of Graz – the parent company, and nothing else. And it's too bad we're talking. We need a special law to do that. But we need a special law, and here I think Mr Cantarutti is wrong, we will not make this investment unless we adopt this special law because our official council in this country is working too slowly. You know, those who were mayors, we did similar things to get some kind of trade in the congregation, and we did something different – OPPN, but we changed the detailed spatial plan of the municipality with the majority of the votes in the municipal world so that we could put in that space so that we could invest in some lame trade through. We went to some special law, too. So there's little to know in life. This amendment, and I understand maybe even here the United Left or not the United Left, the United Left is a lot of customers, but the TRS that they defend theirs, legitimately, okay, but I don't understand here New Slovenia and I don't know that, I'd rather be quiet. [[…]] One more thing. If you don't personally engage, you don't make a real investment in this country. Personally, I know how in Radeč we all worked to make the laufa paperhouse today, but it was only a personal and once more personal engagement of individuals to come to this. A personal relationship is more important than I do not know what business environment, some phrases about the business environment. And one more thing, I have to say, it got in the way. SMC see that they're preparing for the elections and they're using every single thing to score political points. Ladies and gentlemen of the SMC, this is the law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This government has an environment minister, it has an agricultural minister, it has another minister, and these ministers could eventually block this law. And it's not just the economic minister who put this law through the procedure. This law, if adopted, will be the responsibility of the Government. And if he falls, the government will be responsible, or if there is no investment. Don't always put the pot where it doesn't have to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u89	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. I fully agree with my colleague Han, and mostly with my colleague Trčko. I welcome this law in this sense, as the Minister said on the committee responsible, that there is some new flash, some new leap that we need to skip what Mr Ljubo said to us, we need the entrepreneur Akrapovič, who took 10 years for each investment to make, but on average what we need to do now in half five years if we take all the procedures, all the regulations from the change of the OPN, the OPPN to all environmental reports, environmental permits, all the agreement of the space regulators, the water protection area and so on. [[…]] Five years for sure. And I'll be happy if it's in six months. I just hope that this legislation, when it comes out, will also allow somewhere else to go in half a year. Because what we have in Slovenia from now on is a deliberate rejection of all investments. I have my own experience. In my municipality, we have 83 hectares of industrial economic zone, 20 hectares of municipal equipment, the other 63 hectares of environmental protection permit, which is also a building permit to level the ground, along the railway track at the end of the highway. A bunch of investors came, and the problem is also the price of municipally equipped land. The price, however, consists first of the price of land, then of the value of municipal equipment. The investor is also interested in how much the state will contribute to each new job. All the countries in our neighbourhood have also analysed, say, Hungary, which is now a competitive location, from 4 to 8 000 euros for every new job for an indefinite time. I have calculated that 3,000 new jobs per year will contribute 20 million contributions from personal income to the state treasury. 20 million a year. The state will now give the congregation 10 million to buy this land and then sell it to the investor. And it will buy agricultural land, it will not comply with the Law on the Market or on real estate or agricultural land, there will be no need for an advertising board. However, it is a process of how public interest can enforce, what the investor must do, as colleague Han said, if someone does not engage here, and it is usually municipalities, mayors or some team, that there is no foreign investor because he will not do so. In practice, the investor now comes and just asks: “Do you have an environmental permit?” If you do not have one, then it goes on because the deadline for obtaining an environmental permit is a year and a half to two years. If this doesn't happen in one year, it's not interesting for an investor. That's why we have to get it through in six months, because it's five years now. I also told the committee that this is also a matter for the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Infrastructure, and I do not know what else. And now we have in the process of preparing space-building legislation that the Government is expected to adopt by the end of this year – and there is nothing – and Parliament by the middle of next year. This is the key, this legislation that you now enforce by this law, because there will be a consensus within five days of the possible year-and-a-half that a certain congregation has been waiting for. We also have problems with us, we have an economic zone between Ljubljana and Zagreb, the problem is that owners want to enrich with this plot that someone bought with a speculative purpose to earn well and sell further because the municipality cannot buy it, as in Austria. This too, this law is only for fear, because it is likely that the owners will be offered such a high price that no one will need to be dissipated. Because it will get for the agricultural land where we get 200 euros per hectare per year of rent now, 10 euros per square. But it's just for fear.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u91	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you. I have a minute and a half left, so I need to be very quick. I would like to point out that this is not about dirty technologies, about landfills or about the processing of radioactive waste, it is about very clean technology. At the same time, I must remind you that in each construction we have the removal of the fertile layer in the required layer, so that the attributes of this land, if built on it, will not be lost. I also want to say that it is very important for Maribor to build back the tradition of industry that is lost in Maribor, and that this happens even before the generations that have lived this industrialization are extinct, because it also threatens us in some way. My colleague Tomic says we kneeled before the corporation. I have to say, I like it best when she said she'd clap if we woke up the old complexes. The old industrial complexes were sold out, distributed during the transition period. In the Tama area, you have dozens of small businesses and entrepreneurs who can't even discuss parking their own cars today. Do you have any idea what it would look like to get them into reselling to some big investor? That's not even possible. Nor is it an environmental and ecological disaster. And when we're talking about this pathetic thing, like you said, when the dust covers everything and you see what the SMC did, thousands of years ago, it's about 30 centimeters dust, and it's definitely going to be seen that it was some government, not just some party that did the most in the 10 years before that government, and it's definitely gonna be documented. Sorry, I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u93	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. I'm going to start by saying that my name is also Franc, and I'm going to give some friends and friends and relatives from both sides of Styria's work in a company that was mentioned several times today. Of course, it's a serious investor, but we're not serious, to some extent, today and 25 years ahead. These include placement problems, bureaucratic procedures up and down. I can honestly say that we put those three months in there on purpose, because the proposal for this law says that a few 90 days later certain things will start up in Hungary, and this will take us three times as long. That was the point. My colleagues wanted six months, and then we said no. That's it. Everyone who's ever been in politics and you're still making it, you talk about it like you haven't created it for a quarter of a century. We in this century – you know, the environment and space resort has always been the source that eventually gave itself to someone. It's one of my areas, it's been underestimated. And that's why we have some problems. Mr Žnidar mentioned Natura 2000, and even then it did not change what was written under Natura 2000, and those who were mayors know well what problems you had with it. Which is good, which I think is fine with all of this, is good first that we finally remembered Maribor, second that what I've been stifling all the time, I hope that we will also go through this ideology of small businesses, where, as SMC has said, we need large companies with knowledge that are then grown by small businesses, if we want to not give a quarter of the budget for the flogging of the pension register in 2025 and for what else we will not be left. In this respect, I appreciate Mr Cantharutti, I can even say that perhaps the minister should watch a little while as you speak, when Mr Restoration is a little bit more than I do, sometimes in such a department a person has to bite on the language, but you know, in some sort of normal democracy, the parliamentary group does not have to ask that someone from the executive branch should come up with such an important thing, but it is somehow self-explanatory. I hope somehow this happens in the future. If a system law is already in place, colleague Lach has made the issue of pre-emptive rights very clear, including in some housing cooperatives, even in this area. I hope that this will also be settled when the local community, the local congregation or the state have some preliminary right. Now I'd like to suggest that we lock ourselves in here for a month and make this legislation, but somehow I'm afraid you won't support it. But what is the problem with this way of introducing legislation and the big problem, is that I will be the one in the eyes because the Minister said that only the government would identify strategic investments, which means that the National Assembly somehow pushes aside – I hope that Comrade Brglez cuts his ears when I say it – that in this way we are somehow in the negotiating position that the investor has, of course, already in the beginning we are lowering our bargaining power. Yeah, that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u95	Anybody else want to discuss this? There's no time, yeah. There are no more who would like to discuss and have time, so I am closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Janije Möderndorfer. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u96	Hello! So before us is the law on local self-government, which, of course, speaks of a new institute, this is the mayor's recall. For a short time, we could certainly look into the past whether this is the institute that we are first considering, or an institute that we were already talking about in 1996. As early as 1996, when the majority electoral system was first discussed, there was a proposal that the majority electoral system should also introduce a Member's resignation, but that was not the case, of course, because of the decision. Later, due to the change in the Constitution, we have determined that we have a proportional electoral system, so the possibility of recalling Members itself has also been undermined. That is why this idea was born or was born more or less over the years, at least for those officials who have the option of a majority electoral system, in our case, mayors who have the possibility of establishing such an institution after a two-way majority system. In the debate itself, we have discussed more or less what the possibility of performance itself would be. You know, in the past, how it was in history with the mayor's lobby, when we discussed the incompatibilities of the mayor's and MPs' functions in the National Assembly, before this decision was reached, it was decided nine times. It was only nine times that he made such a proposal. Therefore, there is nothing new and nothing special if I can say that even today the mayors are most opposed to this proposal, as the Institute is speaking of calling off the mayor about them. The same applies to customers who have the most mayors in our country. What is he calling himself, or what is he talking about? First the theory and then only the fact. We have a so-called complete recall and a mixed call; in all normal democratic societies, it is simply recognized as an established institution of direct democracy and it imposes the political responsibility of local authorities, so we really don't have to detect any very special warm water here in this matter. Indirect elections and the institution itself is speaking in at least two ways in different countries. In one part it certainly speaks where indirect elections are held, i.e. where mayors are elected within their municipal councils or local communities, namely Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Lithuania, Spain and Sweden. There, of course, the representative body is the one who also has the function of recalling the mayor. Where they have a direct opportunity, the electorate does it himself. It is important for us here to give just a comparison of where this is, in Germany, Austria, Poland, Romania and Slovakia have a direct recall, in which case this representative body of the municipality, state authorities or electors with their own people's vote or initiative. We want to make similar arrangements with us by means of this law. However, let me say that, under the existing Law on Local Self-Government, today the mayor can only cease to function in one way: this is the failure to enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court or the judicial decisions of the courts responsible for administrative disputes which impose on the mayor consistent conduct with the Constitution and the law, and of course the discharge is always decided by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. Well, we've never seen anything like it before. Therefore, we can see that the existing law does not deal with this issue, and that is why we decided in the parliamentary groups and in my belief in SMC, Desus, SD, the United Left and all four Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to form legal bases so that we could also do this in practice. But what are the withdrawal procedures, and I will have the opportunity to present myself in the following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u97	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, President. Representatives of the executive branch of power, Members, Members of Parliament, I do not see a nice greeting! Oh, Member, I'm sorry. That's a good-bye! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 30th meeting. 11. 2016 as a working body, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Janie Möderndorfer, with a proposal for a short-term hearing. The draft law was inserted before the hearing at the 30th meeting of the Committee at the convocation of the 8th regular meeting on 2. 6. 2015 and then 27th regular meetings of the Committee on 5. Ten. 2016, when a general presentation of the essential solutions of the entire package of electoral legislation was carried out in the framework of the supplementary explanations to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. A decision was then taken to postpone the consideration of the bill to one of the following meetings. In the course of the course of business, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS Group of Members by Article 27(1). 5. 2015, and SMC, Desus, SD, Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 of 24. 11. At its last meeting, the representative of the SD Group announced the withdrawal of their agreement to submit amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups by Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 of 24. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposed law stressed that the solutions to the draft law, except in Article 1, the deletion of which is proposed by the amendment tabled by the committee, are not related to the solutions concerning the limitation of the passive electoral rights of public officials in the so-called electoral package, the mayor's institution is pursuing other objectives, in particular that the electorate at local level has the possibility of giving a non-trust to the elected mayor. In particular, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made some comments from their written opinion, which had already been tabled before. She stressed, however, that the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 2 of the proposal was a step in the right direction, but the proposed solutions should be further aligned with both the competent electoral authorities and the professional services within the Government. The opinion of the Council of State was presented by the Council of State and stressed that both the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Council of State itself do not support the draft law. The conditions for the implementation of the mayor's recall procedures are high, but the mayors will still be under pressure during the second and third years of the mandate due to this possibility, so they will often not take unpopular measures, although necessary. The representative of the Municipality of Slovenia pointed out that the proposed solutions were largely opposed because they were considered unmanufactured and unconscionable. The Institute has the option of calling off the mayor as an instrument intended primarily for political accounting. The Head of the Professional Service of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia supported the solutions to the proposal for a law implementing the recently established non-constitutional arrangements for the granting of the representative status of the Association of Municipal municipalities. Members and members of the opposition committee drew attention in particular to the disproportionateity and inadequacy of the proposed solutions regarding the mayor's withdrawal. In doing so, they stressed that we have good and bad mayors, but we must not afford to block the first work because of the latter, not because of any small things that may happen in the congregation and which part of the citizens will not like. In defence of the solutions to the draft law, coalition Members and Members stressed that it is not so easy to collect signatures for a few percent of the electoral beneficiaries in the municipality, but it is also stipulated that a recall procedure can only be carried out once in the individual mandate period of the mayor with additional restrictions that this cannot be done at the beginning or at the end of the mandate. The Committee then adopted amendments from SMC and Desus to Articles 2, 3 and 5 and did not vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SMC and Desus Group of Members, which became irrelevant, and adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them by 11 votes to 7 with 7 votes in favour. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. This is also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u99	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration mag. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government has been invited by the National Assembly to give an opinion on the so-called package of electoral legislation, which included proposals for a law on amendments and additions to seven laws, namely the Law on Local Self-Government, on elections to the National Assembly, on MPs in the State Council, on elections of the President of the Republic, on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and on local elections. This package has been tabled by a group of Members and Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has considered the bills tabled in package and in this light has also submitted its opinion on the proposed solutions, in particular with regard to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government on 28 May 2016. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported solutions that aimed to systematically regulate all political officials of situations that are not currently in place, which could lead to certain problems in practice. Given that only a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government is now under consideration, it makes sense to consider whether this regime is still systemic in nature for a single group of officials. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia strongly supports the addition of Article 86a of the Law on Local Self-Government, which will also grant representation status to the association of more than half of the municipalities, since the purpose of this provision is to take account of the situation and the specific role of the municipalities. With this solution, the National Assembly will also follow at the same time the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u101	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Vice President! Dusan, thank you for the correct report. Jani Möderndorfer warned me at the beginning of the session that we did not withdraw the signatures to this law in writing, so I now predict that I will go after the radio and delete my signature in this law, so it will be official. At the beginning of this term, we respected all coalition parties and also one part of the opposition were united in the assessment that it was necessary to supplement electoral legislation in a way that would prevent anyone sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than 6 months from performing any public function. Let us just remember how many debates, how many inks have been shed on the fundamental question, how is it possible that someone is at the same time at the end of a prison sentence and is serving as a Member of Parliament? Then the Constitutional Court did its thing. It was therefore a common understanding that it is our fundamental duty to regulate the institution of incapacity and the institution of termination of the mandate first, and above all, I stress, in particular, to settle with itself, with Members and Members, that is to say with us. When we settle this with ourselves and only limit ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, we have all the legitimacy and duty to arrange this for other public functions, in this case for mayors. I'm sorry they're not here today. But, dear fellows and colleagues, unfortunately we have failed. We did not select the necessary two-thirds majority on the Home Working Committee to implement the amendments because the law was poorly coordinated. Moreover, the coalition remained alone in supporting the key changes that it had felt at the beginning of the mandate to enjoy sufficient support, namely 60 Members. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly different and has shown its true face. We're in the next situation. The entire reform of the electoral legislation and its integrated solutions fell down the coast with only one exception, remained part of the Law on Local Self-Government, which regulates the representative status of the community association and the law-based institution of the mayor's recall. Your Honor, we have mayors and we have mayors. We have the majority, the vast majority of honest and hardworking mayors. Of course, such a call can have small advantages, and above all, it can have many weaknesses. But that doesn't matter today. The symbolism and communication of the adoption of this electoral legislation are key. So what do we tell the public? So what does this Parliament tell the public? We report that Members and Members have failed in basic terms, that is in the primary limitation of their function, which was at all a basic amendment, and on the other hand we will be able to clearly limit the mayor's function by enforcing the possibility of his recall. Because in order not to forget, because of the people, we need a simple majority, and Desus, SMC and the United Left, they have enough votes. I think this message is completely wrong. Members and Members in the circumstances and in clear facts, we do not have the legitimacy and even less moral basis to do so, but we have formal power and opportunity. But, my dears, let us not forget that the mayors and mayors of Slovenia are, as a rule, significantly more valued among people than we, Members and Members, if we want to admit it or not. But I will now say, on behalf of the mayors, because I was a little mayor, let's not knock on the mayor's door when we need their help, when we need their votes and support, when we fight for this national assembly or when we need a solution to the specific problems of the electorate and electorate, because I will ask the mayors to write "I am on call" on their door. For this reason, we will not support the Social Democrats of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u103	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, chairman. With the establishment of an institution to call off the mayor, Slovenia will receive a new important means of democratic control. The parishioners who fail the mandate given will finally be able to call the people to account. Let's give the people here the opportunity to place clear borders on local sheriffs and replace them. In Slovenia it is this people who have power, at least that is what our constitution says. And if the people choose their leaders, they must also have the opportunity to suspend them. Not just every four years in elections, because democracy is not just an election, democracy is a way of being a community. This is the principle that we follow in the United Left, which we have written down when we have co-proposed the current law. Calling off the mayor is the first step towards strengthening democracy after a very long time, and it is only for that reason that it deserves support. In this and the previous mandate, the Authority has taken measures that have limited the possibility of people being involved across each of the permissible limits. She has forbidden us from deciding on anything that has financial implications and effects. So, practically everything that we as individuals and as a community are the most concerned. She took our referendum, put us in the spring of fiscal rule. And the government did so together, in the broad alliance of the right hand and the left middle. We were against the United Left, first as an active civil society, after being the only parliamentary group. If I mention only the current case when it is harmful to restrict democracy. A few months ago, the coalition, with anti-social tax reform, raised the best wages in the country by €60 million and prescribed the continuation of belt tightening for everyone else. Following the current regulation of the people of this unjust law, they could not refuse a referendum. Of course, neoliberal ideologists would like to convince us that taxes and financial policies of the State are a matter of neutral professions, that these changes were objectively necessary and that people should just shut up. It's not like that. Where we invest as a society, how we allocate what creates our work together, what is important to us as a community, these are political decisions. Unfortunately, financials, euro bureaucrats and depositors currently have power in place of the people. But all these ladies and gentlemen cannot hide the fact that they are not aware that the economy is not science and that it is their financial magic that has prepared us the last economic crisis. More. The belief in saving, which was prescribed by the same neoliberal ideologists as a cure for their own disease, ended with catastrophic social, budgetary and economic consequences for countries. The crisis of wild capitalism cannot save even more wild capitalism. The Mayor's withdrawal is therefore a step in the right direction, a step towards strengthening democracy. Perhaps we would like the required numbers and quorums in the recall process to be slightly lower, but nothing. This is the first step, it is an important step, but it must not be the last step. We must add to it other levers of human cooperation at local level, such as a participatory budget, and of course extend the possibility of recalling other state and municipal officials. The greatest task that awaits us in the process of restoring and strengthening democracy is to return the possibility of a referendum decision to the people and delete the fiscal rule from the Constitution. As long as we are pressed by these two boots, there will be no real democracy in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u105	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u106	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear President! While it is essential that electoral rights are one of the fundamental political rights of human beings, any interference that we undertake in such a and different way is said to be an interference with it, is permissible exclusively and only with strict and consistent respect for the principle of proportionality and the objective it pursues. And this is where we come up with the first problem of this legislation. Firstly, in New Slovenia we point out that this law is without adequate safeguards to prevent abuse. Certainly, such a law can trigger a number of political accounts in individual municipalities. What's the problem? On the other hand, what is easier, as it is to gather, in some places, to highlight only 15 signatures and to put forward an initiative to apply for a vote on the mayor's resignation? For example, members of two or three families can therefore fully subjectively assess the work of the mayor and without any analysis trigger the recall process itself, very easily. Indeed, the initiative itself put forward does not mean that the vote will also be actually carried out, as the initiator, after the decision of the support form, must collect a certain number of signatures of support to the request for a vote, but nevertheless. In any event, the mayor's name or name of that individual will become the subject of public debate, whether the initiative is justified or merely the result of discontent, possibly revenge or part of a political campaign of political opponents. And that's where the problem comes in. In fact, we are going to have more campaigns or campaigns start six months before an official campaign is launched, solely because of the fact that we have to deal with a particular political opponent. However, we emphasize one’s individual conscience or conscience according to his or her decisions. The applicant says that such a non-trust should occur in general only in the event of serious infringements committed by the mayor in the performance of his duties. Here is one fundamental question, including for the proposer. What violations are these, and who will judge their weight and consequences? We stress this inadequacy, indefinition. Indeed, we well know that the whole process will be carried out and will end with a vote on the recall without anyone saying and defining this part. And even if the mayor's resignation will not have enough citizens to vote on and the mayor's work will continue to be very difficult and even if the vote on the recall will only be carried out once in the mayor's regular term of office, that is to say, in essence, two elections for the mayor will be held in this municipality during a four-year term. Third time. There is also an open question as to what the mandate of other municipal officials is in this case. The fact is that the restriction on passive electoral rights at constitutional level is not uniformly regulated for all civil and local officials, despite the fact that the vocation of the mayor or the interpretation of the Government or any minister is comparable to that of the institution. However, mayors are not officers elected directly and with majority support, which is essential compared to proportional elections. So here remains an open question with the mandate of other municipal officials – What happens to them in this case? Come in. The financial implications, namely in New Slovenia, are also pointed out in the case of the adoption of this law to the financial consequences that a request for a vote on the mayor's resignation will have for municipal budgets. And the proposaler is well aware that this is also pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, also mentioned by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, as I have already said, the Legal and Legislative Service, whose opinion we tend to miss. And it is amazing that it is then so easy to convince Members that such a solution is then an expression of the will of the people. Today's proposal for a new Law on Local Self-Government, according to the New Slovenia Group, does not show the proportionality between the legitimate objective and the necessity of such a withdrawal by the mayors, as it constitutes an excessive and direct intervention in passive electoral law, as the Legislative and Legal Service also points out. We will therefore vote against this in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u107	The text is addressed to Mr Jani Möderndorfer, Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much again. It is expected, of course, that this issue is not really about any political ideology at all, but only about the narrow and limited interest of individuals and of course advocates to remain as it is. Of course, in the SMC Group, we think differently. First of all, I'm going to come out of the thesis by comparing it to the question posed by the predecessor, which is, let's clean up in front of our forefinger, and then we clean up in front of others. Let me answer the following, if that is true, then I wonder what would be the same if we were to arrange and theoretically support the electoral package and at the same time support the mayor's resignation, but if the mayor's resignation is only for mayors. So it's an incorrect comparison with something that's not even comparable. Let me explain. In the electoral package, which we will deal with at the next point, and I will talk there more and I will devote more time to this, it is mainly that we are saying that officials who are legally convicted of a crime are no longer able to perform their functions. When the mayor is called off, the real institute is called off, and we are talking about the possibility of voters and voters having a democratic chance that if they put someone up to it, they can also call it off. This is a political act, and now the answer to my predecessor, who asked me the following, is what the reasons must be, which are not stated in the law to enforce the institution. Only legal procedures are a condition for the institution to call off, the reasons, and this is a matter of electorate and electorate, not of us, not of law. And I'm gonna give you a different case so we can get along better. In the event of a recall or a constructive untrustworthy person, you may state any reason, but in the end it is only when the majority of the people in the National Assembly are successful. Therefore, it is inappropriate to ask questions about the reasons for today. And they're not comparable. This is therefore the third instrument that the electorate and the electorate receive, in addition to the referendum and the ordinary elections, they will also receive the mayor's resignation. In the end, let me say the following, which is very important. Of course, I would like it to be possible to recall the Member and all the elected officials, but we must first respect the Constitution and also the way we defend it. Whoever chose has the right to withdraw. For Members, therefore, we should first change the electoral system from a proportional system to a majority system, or at least a proportional system by abolishing the electoral boundaries. Then, of course, we would be satisfied with the basic purpose, and that is to know who is the one who can call back. Today, in the proportional system, we do not know exactly who actually voted for the Member. And so today to mix pears and apples is actually irresponsible. We know that the proportional system has the remaining votes and that the votes can be passed to another candidate. The most common findings that have been expressed will also be presented below, and above all fear and fear that there will be too much costs. First stage costs are not a matter of municipal elections. In the second phase of the request, the costs of the administrative authority, i.e. the state of the municipality, are the costs. Only the institution itself calls off the cost of the congregation. But I don't believe it, and even in the SMC Group we don't believe in the frequency of this institute, because I'm sure we still have in most cases good mayors with whom voters and voters are satisfied, and that's why they don't intend to use this institute. However, as one of the well-known constitutional lawyers said, I quote: "The mayor's recall is like a loaded gun behind closed doors, which the mayor cannot see, but he is aware that if he sees it, it may be too late for him." We will therefore support this bill in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u109	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. As far as our group is concerned, of course we will reject this law, because similarly, I will say, I am thinking myself, as Mr Han used to say. I hope there's someone else in this room who'll be smart. Of course, I don't expect that from you in the middle, but I promise you're at least one of you, like, who also has some mayor somewhere. But it is simple — for what? It's just that one of the six laws was popularly named Mr. Muscolo Möderndorfer, and five of these laws failed. Five of these laws have failed. But when the five laws failed, including the one that spoke about Members, I think we have no moral right, let alone something else to interfere with the status of mayors. While it must be made very clear that, at least as far as our parties are concerned, we have already warned on this subject in 1996, it is said 20 years ago, but in some systemic way, of course even under the condition of the majority electoral system. As for the very contents of this law, which is still here before us, and which we have also very much amended. We have tabled amendments to this law. Mr. Laho and I were just recalculating the numbers a little bit, because this law says - What? That 2% of those who have voted in the previous mayor's elections can take the initiative to call off the mayor. Do you know what this means in his congregation? In Slovenia we do have, I will say, a few more families, but what kind of Roma family is very numerous. For example, with him it would mean that one such fine Romani family sits down, writes 32 signatures there, and the conditions for initiating the procedure for the discharge of the mayor are already met. Isn't that nice? Why do we have such a right? Of course, we do not submit ourselves to such a system. The law now foresees – What? To keep the mayor safe for the first year and to keep him safe for the last year. At least for the first year, the new mayors are a bit of a catch, they're doing more in the last year, and in the meantime they'll be waiting for two years because they'll be afraid of being hit by such a resolution process. There's one more thing to say. When we also dealt with these questions many years ago, in 1996, he was then an honorary member of the National Assembly for three thousand euros, then in the Tolars, writes Dr. Miro Cerar, you know – What did he write back then? He then wrote this: “This idea was thrown among voters without anyone consulting the expert. No one's done any analysis. This has led to a high positive voter response, as the Member's resignation gives people the feeling that they could have a better impact on Members and that those who did not like could simply call off” and so on. What analysis did Mr Möderndorfer make? He didn't run any tests. Has Mr. Cerar done any analysis and government? He didn't do anything. So in 1996 he wrote three thousand euros in tolars, but now that he's in a position to do what he once advised for fat money, he doesn't. In short, as far as we are concerned, we have tabled three amendments, but as far as the law is concerned, and of course for similar reasons as the SD in the hope that anyone else will come to mind, of course we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u111	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u112	The Honorable President. Nice greetings to everyone else! The proposal for a Local Self-Government Act is the only proposal that has passed the decision on the Internal Policy Committee under the electoral legislation package. It is fortunate that the mayor's resignation does not require a two-thirds majority, so the committee's proposal only received support. Like all other draft laws that are the subject of the next item in the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, this proposal has been strongly opposed by members of the SDS, if they do not like the ring of church bells. In one of the coalition parliamentary groups in which the mayor's proposal for a possible recall was initially supported, but they changed their minds at the last minute, it was heard that after a couple of boys at the inn, a couple of boys were about to go a little downhill. Another one of these collections is that we call off a signal to the public about how good everyone is in this country, but only the mayors are crooks, but the fact is that the restrictions on the request for a recall are high enough that there will be no abuse in practice. I must also make it clear that the recall can only be carried out once within the mandate of the specific mayor. Of course, the dilemma is whether it is right to introduce the mayor's resignation into the system, while the defendants are still allowed to run. However, on the spot, the possibility of prohibiting candidates who have sinned against fundamental values in society and were therefore also legally convicted has fallen into the water due to MPs and SDS Members, NSI and unrelated Member of Parliament, and certainly not because of the voters in the package of electoral laws. In the Desus Group, we have always supported the package of electoral legislation, and in the future we will also strive to finally regulate the dilemmas of running for the lawfully convicted. Perhaps, at least I hope, all of us who sit here wish that individuals, both mayors and other officials, would be able to reason enough to stand down on their own, but because this is not the case, as some examples in Slovenia show, we need ethics and should also apply. This, however, is more than evidently possible only by bridging clear criteria. The mayor's incarceration institute is not as rare and unusual as some want to show it. There are quite a few models across Europe where the mistrust of mayors cannot be carried out differently than by human vote. However, the fact is that the mayor's recall is known in Austria, Germany, Slovakia, Poland and elsewhere, only we have the mayor's network so strong that it can happen that the mayors will remain untouchable. Finally, there is something about the statement that I have observed in these days, namely that the Members have pressed their tail between their feet and confirmed only the Law on the recall of mayors, but not the package of electoral legislation that would allow all officials to be recalled. We certainly didn't do it in Desus, and we won't do it in the future. But who is, you will be able to hear this in explanation of the position of our parliamentary group at the next item of today's meeting of the National Assembly. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal of the law by a majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u113	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 2, 3 and 5 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I shall put to the debate Articles 2, 3 and 5 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. First the proposer, then we'll finish the list. The representative of the proposer has the floor, Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much, President. Of course, there are several things that need to be answered in the process that arise in the debate as some kind of deception. So I'm going to repeat several times today at this point that we're going to understand what we're actually talking about. In the beginning, let me say I'm disgusted. I am appalled at Mr Gorenak's presentation in the part where he dares to separate himself from first-class citizens and second-class citizens. For he mentions the Romani community, mention what this means if, by chance, in a Roma congregation, the Romani family decides and collects signatures. I think it's an unheard-of thing. This is similar to saying that in areas where we have an Italian and Hungarian minority, what if a few minorities of Italian or Hungarian nationality decided to collect signatures to begin the recall process. I don't know. I really don't understand. I don't understand what's bothering you, Roma. Don't they have civil rights and electoral rights like everyone else? It seems to me that in the National Assembly, where we are talking about Roma, who are even a constitutional category, I think, Mr Gorenak, when you're talking so beautifully and you don't want to hear it, unheard of, especially from a Member who spoke yesterday about human rights at interpretation. Okay, let's get to the point. As far as the procedure itself is concerned, the mayor's recall must, of course, be clarified first in the part where we talk about how the procedure actually begins. The procedure is definitely very clearly described in the law, starting with a call or initiative that is actually submitted by any of the initiators and therefore has to collect a number of signatures of 3%, which is there, now I will be speaking framework numbers, which, of course, must not be more than 2 thousand 500 signatures or less than 15. However, when it meets the terms of the initiative — and this is relatively simple — 35 days shall start for the collection of signatures certified in the administrative unit, and it must, after the table presented, choose according to the size of the municipality or the number of voters and electors who voted in the last elections, either in the first or other elections of the two-round majority system that applies to mayors. And if they also meet this quota, then the municipal electoral commission will call an election or recall procedure on the basis of the decision. When this procedure happens, she's another extra security guard. In fact, not only does the recall have to succeed with the majority, but 90% of voters and voters have to participate, there are 90% of the last elections that were held for the mayor either in the first or the second round of elections. Which means it's a relatively complicated recall procedure. In particular, it is not easy for a group of political opponents not to carry it out with just some agreement, as some in the debate on the parental committee have explained, in some inn, I speak mainly for small congregations. And, of course, this also preserves the stability of mayors to the point that we simply cannot continue to have such elections. Of course, it is particularly important to mention that such elections of the institution can in fact not be conducted directly and continuously to the end and to the point of disability, but we can only do this once in the mayor's mandate. And not more than one year after the mayor's election and not 16 months before the end of his term of office, which means, in fact, that it also in some way safeguards that someone would not want to go ahead and in a simple way invent and invest new and new institutes to call off and thereby disable the mayor. In the debate itself, when we were preparing a proposal for a law, the idea of a so-called constructive recall also fell. So you can understand what this is all about. It is about making some kind of comparison, what the indirect elections of mayors have in countries where mayors are not actually elected in direct elections, but are elected within the local world, or municipal ones, whatever their country names. And in this way, when they call him off, at the same time – as we would like to do a parallel, a comparison that we will be able to imagine with a constructive confidence of the government – that at the same time, if we wanted to call off the mayor, we would, of course, propose a new candidate at the same time. Of course, this idea can be very interesting, but only from a financial point of view, not in terms of equality of all the partners and stakeholders involved in this decision. I'll explain. You imagine we'd have two candidates, we'd already had these cases, and one win for one vote, I think it's in Postojna, for one vote. You know that this candidate, who lost by one vote, is said to be the mayor's candidate, if he has a list or a political party, within one year he would initiate and encourage a request for a so-called constructive recall. And what would happen – just this candidate, the anti-candidate would go to the polls with the mayor, which in terms of inequality is unethical, immoral and really political. If the classical recall, as proposed by the proposal, succeeds, then within three months — and at that time, it has to be replaced by the mayor under the existing and applicable Law on Local Self-Government — then all political parties or anyone who meets the conditions for running for mayor or mayor can run in these new elections. And that's the point. It has also been mentioned that it is a package, that it is a re-election package and so-called Muscolo, I think it is a classic abuse of Mr Gorenak, who likes to mix pears and apples, although he knows very well that it is not. Mr Gorenak, as you know, the Muscolo package was proposed by your former client or professional associate or political associate within your party and later by the President of the National Gazette when he was also in Parliament. And he suggested this package of Muscolo. In addition, this package Muscolo – I will explain it below, and then I will focus more on this difference of what he is and what this package proposed today. In addition, let me mention the following figures, which are very exact and very important. To understand, because it is not only you, Members who are very familiar with these numbers, but not the Slovenian public: in Ljubljana we should, in order to form an initiative to recall the mayor, collect 2 thousand 464 certified signatures, common signatures, I apologize. Then to collect certified signatures in 35 days, we should collect 22 thousand 864 signatures, 22 thousand, I repeat. And in the third step, in order to succeed, of course, this number is changing because it is always important to look at the data of how the mayor was elected in the last previous elections, he should get the number of votes for calls, he should vote "for" 36 thousand 960 votes. 36 thousand 960! Heroes, go to the elections in Ljubljana and you will see what it means to collect 36,000 votes! Don't fantasize! And the same is true – I will now give an example, say, Medvod, for the purpose of a smaller municipality – to collect signatures for the start, it is said, for the 194 signatures initiative. In order to collect certified signatures to initiate the recall procedure, you need to convince 3 000 247 signatories certified in the administrative unit, and further, they should be voted on, according to its results, as elected by this mayor, these are now data on these orientations made by 2 000 916 votes. Go to Bears and get 2 thousand 916 votes! Isn't it? This is what is important about this issue so that we can make this comparison. This comparison was made and can be calculated very easily if you know the formula, but you should always watch how the previous mayor was elected. And so we can always argue that this procedure is not simple, definitely not. To continue to speak and to repeat the same mantra that Members should call back in the same way as the mayors, and I apologize and talk about analyses. The tests are done. But it is true, Mr Gorenak, that they must be translated, and you know this very well, and this is about the democratic procedures that the 28 countries know. 28 countries are aware of these democratic institutions, and of the countries to which you have sworn and referred. And it's a form that's already been tested and known in the world. To go and talk about going to the so-called imperative status of a Member, I hope you know what I'm talking about. I don't know if we have four or five countries in the Council that know such calls. And I will be corrected by those who are professionally involved. And with that information, I really wouldn't boast, because it really isn't the advantage of such a recall, but it does sound good. Sounds good. And it's actually kind of a word-game kind of thing. You know what? Until it's the same for Members of Parliament, it won't be the same for mayors. But in silence, and you don't say it out loud, you really don't want it. And you know that any serious expert involved in this will also tell you clearly where it takes you and what we will get with it. It is important to know that the decision to call such calls must be made primarily from the point of view that it is an institution where it is only a political responsibility or the democratic will of the electorate and the electorate that they have asked for. You all know the period, those who regularly or then followed the situation more seriously what citizens and citizens reported at that time, in 2012, 2013. Some of you were interior ministers at the time, and you know very well how bad it was, and you wanted to push the network across Parliament, so bad it was to protect the National Assembly from vandalism and the anger that happened at the time. And one of the key requirements at the time was the possibility of recall. This is what we give to citizens and citizens by means of this law. That it doesn't suit politicians, but it's understandable.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the replica? It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Möderndorfer's in a hurry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u117	Dr. Gorenak, I'm sorry, it's not a replica because you haven't discussed it yet, but you're arguing if I'm not mistaken. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u118	Yeah, it's easy for me, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u119	Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u120	Well, whatever it is, tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u121	I suggest we do the following. I'll let you off the hook. Do you agree? Then you'll all get your turn. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, and we'll give it time back, yeah. Here you go. Check in. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u122	In view of this shopping – yes, he has now left – Mr Möderndorfer with 701 votes in the elections, this is a morally supported story, but not. But I looked at the date, he got upset and he had trouble with my performance because I mentioned Rome there, and it was terrible – How come? Disturbed. The view of Mr Möderndorfer's birth date tells me that he is in years when he is at risk of a stroke. So now I have to explain that it wouldn't be an accident, because look, a stroke could hit you, but I don't, I want to, and I need to explain to you what I meant to you about Romi. See, Slovenian families are such that very few are with fifteen children and more, and Roma are such, so I gave the Roma family a comparison and I said that one larger Roma family or two can collect enough signatures. But I have nothing against the Roma. So do not become upset or put your health at risk. I wish you all the best, including a lot of health, so you don't get too upset and something happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u123	Mr Dusan Verbich has the floor. Here you go, mag. Dušan Verbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! With regard to this topic, I must admit, even the media that wrote a lot of things, it is interesting that with quite a large title they write, “Elected by the majority, called off by the majority”. And what is sometimes very desirable, even subtitles, “Recall, it will not be easy” or “Principal under pressure”. Before I continue to touch on my debate, however, I would like to allow myself a few words concerning the opening remarks of the esteemed Dr. Vinko Gorenak, who went with the complete figures, since this is practically the process when the mayor can just change. Here I must admit that I am putting myself in a position, which he also presented in explanation by the colleague's proposer, because we believe those numbers, whatever we are talking about, especially in small municipalities, are really very far from the initial initiative to the recall. This is how I see these things that are enshrined in this amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government. On the question of whether I support the proposal to introduce the so-called recall of the mayor, my answer is very clear, yes. And it's simply out of two principled concerns. First, I certainly believe that this is an institution when the integrity of a municipal official is strengthened in one direction, however we look at it, which is also logical, that it is right to have at least its own view of this content. Another important element, as far as this is concerned, would certainly characterise it as ensuring the so-called political responsibility of these carriers. I, as it is said, allow the possibility that there are already Members and Members of Parliament here in this National Assembly different views on this. And that's also right, because it's practically the temple of democracy. However, in some ways, I find it difficult to accept the statements made by some who are also on the parental committee, and they have also been said today, discussed on this subject and argued that it will now be possible to replace the mayor practically overnight. And that, if I use the words from the parent board vividly: “The group of boys and girls will agree just behind the counter, my mayor needs to be replaced.” And because of this in some way, I think it is wrong that this matter is so simplistic that only the words that were, because perhaps the mayor, especially in small municipalities, will be replaced for the reason of the neighbor's disturbing act, but I will not give a specific case. This is simply not the case, for in this proposal of the Law amending local self-government is a series of procedural assumptions that have already been presented in some way and I am confident that further by the debaters, these procedural assumptions must be fulfilled, that, after that initial euphoria of a small number, let's say, citizens or citizens continue this process to come to that final decision. The next question is whether I support the amendment of this law, which removes the administrative obstacle to the implementation of the referendum in a self-government local community. Even in this case, I have absolutely no reservations and I am positive about this, because in the request for a referendum it is possible to pass this on through a single e-government portal with so-called secure electronic signature. I am sure that we do not have any special reservations or dilemmas here on the part of our colleagues and colleagues. And that third case, which, in a certain way, this amendment to the law also provides or amends, is the status of the representativeness of the municipalities, because it is known that, if I am not mistaken, in the past month was the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is precisely the unconstitutionalness of the 86a article of the existing law. These are kind of the three, let's say, key areas. But it is true that the most questions, the most dilemma and controversy, are intended for this institution to call off the mayor. I agree, I am aware, and in some way I also understand that it is somehow determined, if I may say so, by the branch of politics, perhaps in the National Assembly or in the State Council and also at the local level by the existing mayors, unfavorably. But I must admit that in some ways we are trying to understand this disfavor perhaps also from the point of view or from the options of thinking, because in some ways we are very or very unloved of almost any change. This is obviously also relevant in the Republic of Slovenia for different areas, even here, when it touches some institutions in a certain direction, which in some ways certainly causes a number of dissatisfaction. It is true, however, that, in this context, I can say that this kind of thinking is not supported enough for me by certain facts, if I touch the county in particular, because this amendment makes it very clear what those periods or timelines may be in. And what I think is right is that after one year it is not possible to do this at all or 16 months before the start of this first period is even more important to me, because the promises at the elections are all possible and the fact is that after one year citizens and citizens in their local spheres or areas are very well or quickly aware of whether the mayors' promises have been fulfilled or are going in a direction that they are greatly disappointed. In this regard, not only does politics, but also the profession, as far as we can monitor, have different views, which is also right. On the one hand, the so-called profession, which in some respects are representatives of these so-called academic areas, is of the view that the number of signatories that somehow initiate this process is crucial. And if I touch just one, I can say that in some direction it is not very unfavorable to such a proposal, because it is his opinion that the current or proposed arrangement in some direction is large enough to carry out such a procedure. In particular, I am referring to the number of certified signatories, not just initiatives. However, it is, and it is also, a very loud position — and it is worth considering — on the contrary, which is particularly advocated in the direction that the stability of mayoral mandates is very important. This too needs to be considered and, at the same time, in these kinds of thinking, the view is that the mayors have this so-called important role in the local sphere and it is not good to interrupt them in one way or another. Of course, such thinking is not reinforced, why would there be any possibility of such substitutions? I understand the mayor's withdrawal as a procedure, if I may say so, an expression of direct democracy, because it allows a certain number of citizens and citizens to be – and I point out that I am back in that number of certified signatures on the competent administrative unit – to vote on the withdrawal from this function before the end of the mandate, because I believe that it is right that such procedures really start if a larger number of citizens and citizens can be discussed, in fact and objectively, in some respects, it is estimated that the mayor's function is significantly different from the so-called planned, planned and promised activities in a particular local sphere. As far as the Association of Municipal Communities is concerned, I would like to stress here again, I think this is also an important category to include them with this change of law in the abolition of the constitutional decision. If I may conclude, I am in the position that citizens and citizens should also be informed that officials, in this case we are not talking about Members, but about mayors, who are also elected in direct elections, that they are not untouchable. For such activities must be opened. I believe that this is the right step towards the necessary changes in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I'm going to take as long as I have, because most of my professional life I'm also dealing with local self-government, views on it, reforms and so on. First of all, there are some former mayors sitting between us, five, six, sitting in the former mayor's seat, and they know how difficult this function is. We are often in the National Assembly, it seems to me that most of us, apart from the mayors, may or may not be aware of this, that some call me two-thirds, some say 70% of all the legislation, all the laws we process here, at least to some extent also to local self-government, even to the congregation, according to domestically, and of course many of these congregations are human beings. Today in Slovenia it is very difficult to be a mayor or mayor, even if you want to work honestly and most of them honestly work so that they are not at least guilty. And then in the municipal world, you have a well - intentioned opposition that can speed you up. For example, Mrs. Ludmila could say something about it from her mayoral career. A lot of talk here is populism about some small congregations. If you go to see the cross-section of our local elections, you will see that in smaller municipalities, even up to twice as many people go to elections, and I hope to say that they are even more mature, smarter than in middle-ranking and urban municipalities. He also nominates fewer people for mayors and, as a rule, those mayors do quite well, often unprofessionally perform their functions. They are, I hope that no one will blame me, mad in the affirmative sense that they are doing it for the good of the congregation and the community. If I, my experts for Hodosh, counted for me in the same way as the Church, and anywhere else, by vote, the election right was in the last local elections, maybe someone got one plus up and down wrong, but I will read this data, 276 people, in the first round voted 191, 69% say, in Maribor, Ljubljana it is there 35 up and down. Indeed, it would only take 15 signatures to submit the initiative because there is a certain lower limit, but these signatures should be accepted by 30% of the voters in the municipality, 82 and more than half of them should vote in the vote, logically, 172 voters should vote in favour of the resignation and the vote. In short, literally almost everyone who voted. I have to say, here's a pretty good fuse, and at the same time, if you've been reading the material along with it, you can see that they have this system in the north and the south and the east and the west. In short, in a number of countries that I hope have built a higher political culture than we have built in 25 years. And this mayor's issue is, in fact, a kind of shared responsibility for all of us. But you know, when they start with me or Facebook or where people like that, you're all the same as you are, up and down I always say, "I've only had one vote." [[…]] It is also a responsibility, when I speak of municipalities, citizens and citizens, to consider who we will elect as mayor or mayor. It is also the responsibility of the leaves, the parties, the coalition at local level to consider who they give to this function. Even in some democracies with a longer tradition than ours, they get scarves, or certain people apparently a little bit in power What should I say? [[…]] No, I'm not going to continue with the sentence. And that's why they have that kind of protection. To me – how much is that? – three, four years ago part of the Mariborians begged me to run for mayor. I, frankly, did not run for office because at the time, I did not feel personally or politically capable of this function. Well, unlike Fischtravec, someone else I've read for 20 years any municipal budgets, you can give me any one, I can turn it around and read it properly. And because I knew you needed a very good team for the mayor or the county, a good team of people who would be 300% smarter than you, who wouldn't betray you, who wouldn't get it in their heads, who wouldn't sell for money, and here's where something would happen. And these are actually some stories we actually have. And now this problem, the problem of recalling for you who have been creating this country's policy for the past 25 years and you have mayors at local level, is very pragmatic, because then you can happen to be without your mayor, and someone who won't be so fond of some of your jobs, activities, and here will be the problem. And that's the whole story behind it. The SD was very much in favour until it saw whether or not it would go through, and now that it didn't go through, it's against. And on the one hand, we're going to be pushing a colleague for some flise there, and there was a Mandate-Volution Commission, which is also kind of a little judgmental, and they probably framed it well-intentionedly in her municipality, which is what we are in Slovenia. On the other hand, mayors will often do what they want. And where does the problem come from? The problem arises as a rule in middle-class municipalities, when you happen to have some bipolarity, say, from the head I call the Ormož municipality case, because there were two gentlemen, and they loved each other very much, under the headings. And quite problematic are, of course, the city municipalities, especially in what we sometimes call a holding company a little bit too powerful, especially in these, I would say, milky para-breeding, concessional, pacifist stories. In Maribor we can talk about farmers, Nigrads, up and down, in Ljubljana we can talk about things, we can go abroad, we can analyze Zagreb or something like that. We know that, and if we stop running some simple populism, it's some kind of security guard, basically a three-degree one, to even get to it, plus a time-limited one that somehow makes something possible. Look, I'm coming from Maribor, if we had this arranged then, Mr. Gorenak would sleep easier, some harm would not have been done to some young boys, the public would not have ruined their lives, which would have had some consequences, and I probably wouldn't have been in Parliament, which someone would have been happy to, because they wouldn't have locked me up, but it's done by book then. Find a divorce, and you'll say that k, find someone who smokes weed, and you'll say that's right, and find some crazy perfox. [[…]] It's a basic lesson for cops to do. And it's not a joke. And it seems to me that for these purely pragmatic, time-consuming reasons, we also need this kind of law. But it would also be for a more thoughtful, some serious version of Muscolo's legislation, which would prevent people who are convicted, candidates and perform their duties. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u127	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I'll play with the numbers first. Who proposes the so-called recall of the mayor? A client who doesn't have any mayors. It is supported by two parties. If my uncle Google didn't seduce me, I think Desus has one or two mayors. [[advertising from the hall]] Four, four mayors. The combined left, I think, none. So the customers who have four or five or six mayors together are attacking the local government and the mayors. The bearer of this law is a Member who, by a percentage of all of us, has received at least a percentage. And this gentleman now has the wisdom of how the mayors are so different and how they should always look at the support. The carrier is a person who has replaced so many customers that it is difficult to list, and he wonders how, besides having to look at mayors under their fingers every four years of regular local elections in the meantime. As the former mayor does not realize that we have mayors in the municipalities, we have municipal councils, where we usually also have opposition, we have supervisory committees, where, for the most part, colleagues from the mayor or his coalition parties are in there, but not many, and we have, for example, the Court of Auditors, which can look at the municipalities under our fingertips. And we have a KPK. But in this ethical and moral hubris, which is translated as the attack on the smaller municipalities, the largest government of the party and, in particular, the MP, with at least a percentage of the votes won in the last national elections, decided to attack the mayors even more. And I feel unwittingly that six or seven mayors have these three parties that support this law. Is it not your intention to bring down the existing mayors as soon as possible through various civil initiatives, through your council groups and before the next local elections to set up similar mayors? Maybe there's some kind of caller. In addition to the President of the Republic, the mayors are the only ones who must have at least 50% of the votes to vote. I think that Janša and his colleague Tanko got more than 50% as an MP here once. If there's anyone else from the SMC, I apologize. And the mayors have authority. I am the third term in the municipal world and some evil wreath here tells me, because it was fine, Municipality Sevnica 17 thousand 500 inhabitants, in the last elections there were electoral beneficiaries 14 thousand and something else, the vote was 7 thousand and a few others, and for the mayor's recall in the first, after my crucial moment, we would need, I calculated, 213 signatures and damage would be done. If no harm had been done, why would such a guard be able to speak as you speak as you continue to do so? This system government is doing something stupid? You're passing laws for one man. You're breaking the Constitution for one man. We rescued one congregation in the original law and brought one company to our home. What you are saying is that it will not happen at all, but let us put it into law, but if possible, where will it come from, and especially in small congregations, believe that it will happen. Colleague Nada calculated that 13 people or 15 people, in those smaller municipalities there 4 thousand people have, the election participation is about 50% and can make that first moment. In the village of the inn, because probably even in small congregations they have innkeepers who receive at least 15 people, I hope that you are aware of this by those in the larger congregations. And even in my case - 213 signatures. As president of the SDS Sevninica, I have 3 less than 300 members, I can easily get signatures, one text, and I say, there and there are signatures. But does that make sense? We have representatives in the municipal council, we have a supervisory committee, we have an Court of Auditors, and we need both municipal councilors and mayors to keep accounts at least every four years. And now you're going out here, you're going out there, you're going out there, you're going to be fighting people, and you're going to be fighting people even more in those little congregations. For the first time, I don't say, I think the municipality of Sevnica is as big as the number of inhabitants. But in those small congregations, 15 farmers will really be able to meet because some municipal land will be the subject of a dispute between the mayor who would like to build something there and between the 15 neighbors of a certain land. And in your previous marriage, you said, "Let's run over the farmers," "let's go through it, let's do it." Here, when you want one, you'll say, uh, nothing's gonna happen. The damage will be done. For example, I can half a year after my election on one matter when I don't fight with the mayor because I'm going to fight because I'm the opposition, said Mr. Mayor, I can't wait for the twelve months to pass, and I'm already predicting today that you're signing for your resignation. At least I'll get them in the first phase. And what will the mayor do until then? He studied what to do to make that first procedure easy for us to make a second-phase procedure go through. However, political damage has been done to the mayor, who has received more than 50% of the votes, and it is bad for the municipality, although you are probably a lot of people who are going to do so, that he will not be aware that the mayor, together with the municipal administration, will only deal with how to be more liked by his population and that he may not get in smaller municipalities, even from two different parties, a desire to call the mayor. Earlier, something had been said about political culture. Yeah. I always say, like in sports or somewhere else, we have good and bad. The Ljubljana mayor, the criminal charges, probably doesn't count them, we have legally convicted mayors and people vote and people are always right. And it is likely that Mr Jankovic will be elected again, probably another mayor, but this is the problem of the people in that congregation, not us as the legislative branch of power, which we say, in small municipalities, let us fight even a little more so that we will be in the center of power, that is, in the executive branch of power, much easier. And yes, although my colleague Jani said earlier, not to talk about MPs, but to the Prime Minister of the Government, many would probably say that at least for the President of the Republic it would be nice to introduce such an institute, because some of us already have suitcases of skating across fences abroad. And we are collecting 3% of the people in the last election of the President of the Republic, and the damage will be done. And if we give one serious person to the carrier, it is — What? Proclamation of an election campaign, free of charge, on everyone else's account. But you could also change the constitution without worry if you were right, and say “for all the beloved officials”, because you will not believe, we also have many saints loved by the majority system. There's no need to hide behind that proportional system and we can't figure it out there. Speaking of municipalities, we know what an electoral unit is. It's a community. Speaking of Members, we know where we are elected. In the constituency. If we're talking about the President of the Republic, we know. Slovenia. But today I haven't spoken, of course, and the prime ministers are the untouchables in this country because they didn't put themselves on the poster, but one said you, you said you, and you're the ministers. If I may say a little more about the President of the Government, we know that the President of the largest party running in the elections is expected to go to battle or take responsibility for the President of the Government, but how many current ministers were put on the poster? Yes, you'll say we have here in the National Assembly. But why don't we just give people a chance, let's say that, I don't know, 10,000 people, if you want to give people so much opportunity, you can call them off. Because, for example, the Minister of the Environment and Space or does not do this, or has she resented any congregation, why we are the only Members who should say that this minister is good or not good, and here to discuss, I don't know, 11 or 15 hours of interpretation. Let's give people a chance if you're so papal. But no. Here, too, those who are first - class, untouchable, and those who are still being given written treatment by this government on all different subjects. Today, we probably had the first and only case in the preceding paragraph when one congregation went to pediestal and was doing a pianist project on how someone would get a building permit within six months. And I'm happy to support that marriage, because I know there's nothing to do with that law. Nothing's gonna happen from that marriage. In a six - year period, a building permit in a congregation that does not have a municipal spatial plan? Mission impossibility or option only in China. Anyone who's ever worked in a municipal office, even as a saint, knows what I'm talking about. So I can go back and finish. In short, it is such a beautiful populist proposal in the manner “Let’s scold people, we’ll fight them in those smallest municipalities, and people will deal with the mayor and show him how he is responsible for all the problems and hardships of his congregation, and the President of the Government and ministers will do as they have done so far, little between the shoulders and show even more, because he is a mayor that even his people do not like, leave us aside to continue doing the stupid things that this government does.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u129	It's a replica first, dr. Franz Trcek and then a representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. I have to replicate my colleague's performance, if I'm not mistaken, Lisca. My friend Lisec is a good politician and a good rhetoricalist, and I know that even a good municipal councilman, I have information from the field. But all of us also sometimes populism gets a little carried away, a few such logical felers. First, when they started to implement this logic, I, because I am not a lesbian, not a Roma, nor a representative of the Italian, Hungarian community, and anything else, nor am the mayor, should be able to debate and debate in a variety of laws. Some other story, so much about the people you're talking about, in fact, people wanted to have such a well-regulated security guard, because of some kind of practice. Third time, you didn't listen to me. I was talking about the responsibilities of all of us. Yeah, I'm also wondering what it is, the Municipality of Trebnje, the legally convicted mayor is running and so on, but I could actually drag some other cases out. It is also sad that electoral participation at local level is so low, in your municipality just over 50%. It's also some kind of problem, in fact, some serious problem. That I won't be too long, it seems to me that maybe you're coming out of this SDS logic a little too much, everyone who doesn't think like us, then we're in a fight with us, with you. You've already got problems on this right-hand side, and I'm not going to handle the right-hand man now, even though I'd like one for the 21st century. You come from some relatively large Slovenian congregation, that there are people from the countryside, who in most cases are peripheralized to just fight. We don't have time to fight either, I mean, otherwise we'll have cows, pigs, say. Perhaps Mr. Minister doesn't have time to fight in the morning, but he has to fight first, as Secretary of State of Cantarutti said. Not now the social pathology of the National Assembly to refer to the whole of Slovenia and the whole world, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u131	[[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you, Vice President. Given that I am also a member of the working committee on the Rules of Procedure, I think we will have to have at least a few more meetings because I did not understand either the letter or the word where I was misunderstood. Let's read the rules of procedure for the replica. We will really have to warn at least those who are members of the working committee, my trifle, Jani, and there are a few of us, each time to remind each chairman of what a replica is, because it will truly be even more born than it has already been. Because someone disagrees with the predecessor, it's a replica. That's not true. Sign up for the debate and discuss it. But the replica is intended to do so if someone is not understood. If Mr Trček does not agree with me to press, he will report to the debate and life will be easier, not to tell the replicas of his own and accuses someone who can't then use the replica to defend himself. In short, one day we'll all have to learn what a replica is in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u133	Yes, I respect your opinion, Mr Tomaž Lisec, I agree with you. We have all those who hold meetings with some Members of Parliament constantly having problems and I fully agree with you. Procedural Mr. Franc or Dr. Franz Ducky. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u134	Procedural. I agree with Mr. Lisce. I will also say that I have learned to violate the procedure from the SDS Members, especially from Dr. Tank, a doctor of procedure. When we had those six hours about Janez Janša, I counted, I counted 29 of his flood reports, 25 per cent of them violated procedurally, and maybe one half of the other four, if I were to chair, took them procedurally with a tightening pain. In short, in particular Members with a much longer internship should be a great example for us here. I will be happy to learn from you this finer part of compliance with the rules of procedure. We Members also often have problems with the presidents. I've misused the rules of procedure, please excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And my proposal will be to the President of the National Assembly to discuss this issue informally with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Möderndorfer, representative of the motioner, you wanted the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u136	Yes, Tomaž, of course, I fully agree with you as to the procedure, and it is true that the President from his position, the President, could at any time intervene in the replica and ask where this replica is. But okay, let's get to the point. But I don't agree, of course, in the part where you do, Tomaž, the comparison and you say, "Why don't we do this to the president of the country, the real Republic of Slovenia?" Look, I'm sorry, but the President of the Republic of Slovenia has a completely different category, and finally, if we're just at it, today the mayor has no option of calling off this so-called call, and I'm getting this political control from the point of view of the constitutional charge, and the President of the Republic has it. The mayor doesn't have it. This is an essential difference and we have consulted and discussed this option. And they advised us simply because it has a different status and the question is, of course, how would this go through further possible assessments of the appropriateness of such a decision. Tomaž, you suggested: Why don't voters decide on the government and on the constructive non-trust, why do we decide on this? Yeah, for one simple reason. If you listen to me properly, whoever chooses you can get rid of you. And in this case, the government isn't elected, it's named, and that's a significant difference. Therefore, Members and Members of Parliament can only invest in a constructive non-trust. That's logical. It's an indirect institute. However, it is the mayor's direct election of voters and voters, and it is more than clear that only they can decide on it. Why do we decide in the National Assembly, in the legislative body? Yeah, because no one else in the country can decide if we want to write this down in law. Therefore, do not think about interfering with the handling of some local issues. Only we can decide that. Let me warn you again. Similar questions were raised when the mayor and the MP were incompatibilities. Nine times. Nine times in the National Assembly, it was not possible to make a decision because the mayor's lobby was, of course, you know, someone would cut off their own tail, that's not going to work. [[…]] And it was very difficult. And when that happened, of course it was a problem. But today we see that it was good that this was not bad at all, not least in the State Council they have their own representative part of the vote and are still indirectly involved in the decision-making processes of the National Assembly. But it is necessary to say again, we are not talking about the rascals, about the bastards, far from it, we are talking about the mayors, to whom the infamous and unfair connection has been made, and not least you have all mentioned it here, by yourself, when you were angry, “local sheriffs” and you use that word. The local sheriff! The recall institute will justifiably lose this title and we will remain the mayors of the gentlemen or the mayors. Because they will easily know that it is possible for them to leave early. Does that mean they have to be afraid of something? No, no, no. Far from it, they'll work as hard as they do now. If they believe in those decisions they think it's right to take them away, they'll be taken away by the institute or without. But the voters will, of course, decide whether he's right or wrong. Not by criteria, but by political control. The mayor has a kind of internal control, of course he has it, he has it by the Supervisory Board, he has it by the Court of Auditors, he has it by the municipal council, but in the municipal council, usually mayors have a majority and it works the same rule as here. That is why we are missing, and at that time we are failing when it was decided in the past when we adopted local self-government, of course we decided to take these controls, but we let that go, what is, of course, established and normally functioning abroad. Why did it go down today and I'm not even going to speculate, because there's not even time for that and it's unnecessary to discuss it. But the fact is, it's basically something that voters don't defend themselves, and they don't say they don't want it. There's going to be an institute like this. Of course it will. I believe that someone will test it as before, normally, but then we'll actually see what it means. Will this be a common occurrence? No, it won't. I don't believe it. I just don't believe it. I'll tell you why. Because political responsibility is not only borne by the mayor who will be placed on this pranger test of recall, but also by the one who submitted it. We are talking a lot about political opponents wanting to do this. I apologize, but political opponents, if they are political opponents, will get their answer at the institution of recall and, last but not least, at the elections. The mayor himself, who will succeed in withdrawing in the sense that he remains, will receive further confirmation that he is doing well, and I believe that the one who will survive this call will also be re-elected, because something will not change much in one and a half years or two until the end of the elections, unless he is significantly more bixed. But that's no longer my problem, that's the problem for those who decide to go to the mayoral office. And that's right. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u137	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I don't know what to say, I agree with Mr Han's debate, Tomaž Lisca, who has a kilometer, one as mayor of the other as municipal councilman, and I also understand the proposaler, who will probably never be mayor, but the mayor may be for a long time because the mayor doesn't have any responsibility, as does the MP. The mayor in Trebnje, who signed a contract for a ship for 400 euros, has been given 4 months and is now being beaten, is an increasingly better mayor and will be elected. Because you have to learn every job, and the mayor's, in the first term, you won't do much. Let me say that I was elected mayor four times, once with only two votes. I was also elected to Parliament by 16 votes for the first time, but then never again. And I was elected as an MP, not where I was mayor, but elsewhere and not of my own free will. And I know one function and another function well. And if I add up my working time in the economy for 30 years and the functions of a Member and Mayor, I have 51 years of work. Not because I was, if I was bad, I'd only be elected once, but never again for the mayor. And here's a few more of us. And don't say anything that you've never done, not to say anything, but to answer for nothing, but now to be smart and to stand up to mayors who were once perhaps 20 years presidents of local communities, but accused of grand theft by the state as I was by myself, just to be afraid of someone. Here, too, for instance, an interpolation. I know that the SDS can file for the same Minister of Interpellation five more times, it will never be voted, but the people on the ground will say, "If they have invested five times, this can't be good. From which party is it?" We listen, we kill all day, just like one MP who was elected by a few hundred votes came to Parliament, and voters have to watch and listen to him for four years. Don't say that. This institute could be good for the future because you won't get the smart mayor anymore because of what you do to mayors and municipalities. Like I said before, you're going to collect VDC, and someone else is going to be the mayor from the solar system. The mayor's responsibility or the MP's responsibility. I was both, and at the same time, 70% to 80% is part of the county, and the rest is, say, 20% of the MP here in the National Assembly. That's the relationship. Not to mention responsibility. This mayor, who is being convicted, has been falsified by the municipal administration. I'm sure there's no mayor to read everything and get to know each other before he signs the order or I don't know what kind of contract. Here in Parliament, you know when a former politician told his brother that he had a lot of agricultural machinery in his yard, he said why don't he put it under your roof? He said you could shut your mouth, and you got all your gear set up. Being mayor, having a vision, a strategy, running a municipal administration, responsible for everything, it's not that easy. And now we're setting him up here when one group comes together, maybe just like my colleague Vinko said before, voters who have a double election right on a local level, bring me water, if they don't, but back off, give me an apartment if they don't, but back off. And they collect signatures, once, twice, three times, I don't know how many times. Some voters think so, yes, but if they've collected signatures for him five times before, I really can't vote for that anymore. We're putting this institute in our hands now. Why isn't that good and they have it in Western countries? Because they have a longer political culture, the tradition of local self-government has been 50 years and everything is possible with us. A party gets government in one month. And then, as one of my colleagues said, I'm going to be a little rude, he said, "Those who can't do anything are going to teach others if they don't know it yet, but they're going into politics."
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, representative of the proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u140	My colleague Lah, I have been a mayor for six years, the largest congregation, and it's a mayor who's seen a lot of things. It's not proven yet. And most importantly, I am fully aware of what the mayors are responsible for. And I'm here to tell some fairy tales, and so on, it's unnecessary. But it's because of what you said today, because it's so responsible, because it's so important, that no one can hurt him today. No one can call him for political responsibility! And that's why we need to get this institute in place! I didn't fall out like Gorenak said, far from it. But he knows one thing — that people who speak the way they think are getting on his nerves are not those who read the leaves because they know how to slap you quickly because they can't challenge them. Therefore, colleague Lah, it is very important, because of all these qualities that the mayor has, and the responsibility and importance to protect him in this way, but also to replace him. I don't know why the mayors are afraid of this because I don't think they are. Those who have no bad conscience who have a pure thing that can defend things can come through. But it is something — what I listened to on the committee or what you said today — that because of the polished manure, the electorate will eventually replace the mayor. I'm sorry, but this is an underestimation of the electorate and the electorate. It's an understatement for me. I mean, now we're going to be the ones who evaluate what voters and voters have the right to think. It's up to us to decide. No! No! Can voters decide what we think when we put in constructive interpolation? I like what you said today and finally admitted what never the biggest opposition party wants to admit, why it invests interpretation – because of the filling, more than the interpolation, the more people will think something is wrong and you should not trust such a person. If that's an argument, then we all failed the exam. That's not an argument for me. As your former leader of Jože's delegation would say, interpellation is an inventory where you look at the way things are, arrange the chart and point out the irregularities. And that's all. Now you're gonna have to figure out what interpolation really is. That is why I feel that the institute is calling off the paradox — the protection of voters and mayors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We still have reports. Procedural, Mr. Tanko? It has a procedural advantage, then Mr Han and Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The interpretations we have tabled in this mandate have been made solely for the purpose of violating the Constitution, violating the laws, violating human rights and disregarding judicial decisions. If those who explain a theory about how to do something here do not recognize these violations that have been accepted by independent institutions, then there is absolutely no connection to explain to us what to do here and how to do it. With no interpolation – and we filed it against the Minister of Health, against the Minister of Education, twice against the Minister of Labour, as a whole – you did not recognize any violations. And they're all publicized. And now those who don't recognize it, who don't recognize it, teach about how some things should be arranged for a mayor. By the way, Mr Vice-President, what he has just been teaching about knowing the situation in the capital, we can change with the Capital Act and address these problems he has been talking about in the capital. But we don't have to accept them as the Raptor. If the colleague who proposes this law were responsible, he would have done so long ago without generalising, generalising, and not solving them where it is necessary. I suggest you, Mr Vice-President, to point out in such discussions as has now been the case, because I hope you have read the interpretations, at least to tell him the impressions of the interpretation resulting from the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the decisions of the Supreme Court, the decisions of the European Court and so on. This has now been recorded in the interpolation. I suggest you warn gentlemen to stick to what he thinks is right, it's okay, but not to talk nonsense long and hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Tanko, for your opinion. As President, I did not detect anything that would always be procedural in the implementation of Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Mr Möderndorfer has simply expressed his opinion and we all have it in this House, even if we do not agree with it. Is it necessary, Mr. Möderndorfer, to give you procedurally? Here you go. You've got a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u144	Mr. President, that's how it is now. Recently, a fellow Member, Lisec, clearly warned a colleague from the United Left, Trčko, when talking about the replica, but at the same time a colleague of his, rather awkwardly, could have warned the leader of the parliamentary group when it was used procedurally, as this was certainly not the case. For it is not procedurally seen, except that he suggested that you warn me of something you have nothing to warn me about, he actually misused the procedure only so that he could enter the debate prematurely and debate in truth, and that seems incorrect to me. I suggest, or I don't know how many more minutes you have, but you are always doing this when you are running out of time to start gradually coming into the debate process to apply for the word, Comrade Tanko, and then discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u145	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert should be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I must say, of course, it is interesting to hear all about this proposal. The more I listen, the more I am convinced that this is one proposal or law that does not drink water. When I listened to Jani now and when he said, "If the mayor has a good conscience, there is no need to be afraid of anyone." My Jani, speaking of calling back, it has nothing to do with pure conscience. This will be the political action of individuals who will go to overthrow the mayor. If the mayor does something wrong, if he steals anything, I hope that in this country, the institutions that will grab him, everything else will be pure, pure manipulation, political manipulation, and it will be a policy use, such as interpolation. Yesterday, you and I were yelling at the SDS, using the Korean boys for interpolation. The same will happen in the local self-government and I will tell you, those mayors who are capable and who take things and who say they are and are different, they will produce their own calls. He's gonna produce himself, one year and a half before the election, he's gonna produce, call off, have a nice year of commercials, and he's gonna go in front of his people locally, and he's gonna say, "Look, I want to work, but I have to deal with some callback." That's what they're gonna do! And there's not gonna be any party hiding behind it because after he signed, I'm sorry, Jože Novak, or I don't know, at the beginning of this call. One more thing. Solution: We replace the mayor's call and the municipal council stays, let's elect a new mayor. Yes, what will this new mayor do if he does not have the municipal council behind him so that he can accept the budget so that he can adopt various acts! We're gonna stop the local self-government totally. I know that some clients don't think that local self-government means that they think this is a shrine and that it's Gregorčič's shrine. But that's not right. This isn't right! The mayor who's stealing will, I hope, be taken by the institutions and replaced. Yeah, they have to. And you can't do the filling here, Francie. You were the mayor. That's how I think we're playing too much. One more thing; when we don't – and that hurts me – when we fail to limit ourselves, we go after these mayors. Come on, let's have a clean face once. If we don't get 60 votes here to limit ourselves first, don't go to the mayors, because from 211 mayors we have more than 200 top-ranking, honest mayors who work very hard for relatively very small salaries. No mayor has more than 2 000 300 euros in salary, and some, after 1,000 500 euros, work from morning to evening, from Friday to Christmas. They're dealing with all kinds of impossible and possible things. Why do people label them as locusts and have to be replaced in some way? I have to say that it hurts a little, they end up going to the polls and voters every four years and they're significantly more controlled than we are who are elected by the professional system and eventually some people come in or we come in because of the d'Hondt system and so on. The mayor, however, can be elected only if a person in the same congregation surrounds him and receives more votes and knows each other very well. But you can run for office because you're calculating into a community because you know you're going to be elected there because in your own congregation, your mother doesn't even love you. Because you're looking for an ideological congregation for yourself to be elected there, and then you forget about those voters anyway. Local self-government is significantly more complicated and significantly more important than some imagine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u147	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Well, I rarely agree with my colleague Han as much as I do this time because he speaks from the mayor's personal experience and because I have this personal experience, I know how things work in the congregation. If this law were in force, I am sure that I would not be here today because I would have been suspended after the first year of the county because I won the alternative elections and then I had three of my opponents in the municipal world, I had a minority government so to speak, they were doing all sorts of things against me, and suddenly I was incompetent and I don't know what else. In short, it can be very much used. I believe that in Ljubljana it is difficult to choose these 32 thousand signatures or as much as you said, while in one small congregation 100 signatures 200 are no problem to collect or more because people know each other. And also people who vote mayors, that's the most personal function, because they elect a person, not so many customers. As a client, I would never get such support, but as a person, because they know me because they know my relatives, not least because they know my work, even my children, even what kind of laundry I dry. People know people so well in their place, I talk about smaller congregations, there's a larger congregation, you hide easier, but people know you. And if you do so much stupidity in four years, then people have to admit if they've made a mistake, but if you've done something illegal, we have other institutions to call you off. Maybe this is where we'd alert the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, it often notes that there are some procedural errors, that the hole is in legislation and so on. It is also true that the Court of Auditors does not have sufficient staff to review the successful functioning of the municipalities and systematically and every few years. So I know the case when the Court of Auditors was reviewing a mayor, and then the next one felt very safe and could do more stupid things. I will do more for mayoral mandates to be limited: two, three mandates would be just enough, because then the mafia can get involved, we can't say it's mandatory – around the mayor. If someone has been in a position for too long, then these connections are much easier to establish. And that, too, is too much of a disrespect to the work of mayors. Since I've already replaced several functions, after all, my mayor's first political function, I still claim that the mayor is the hardest of these functions I've ever had. As a member, we can share signatures with each other, we sign a number of signatures, at the end of the day, we do not answer anything, but when the mayor signs difficult contracts and difficult decisions, for which he must obtain the municipal council, he must have the budget adopted, and he must receive such and different consents from the country, and then the municipal administration must be active. Well, there's a lot of factors before the mayor can do anything. Even I think that the congregations should have more authority because they are more specific, and they are faster to carry out tasks than ever before by individual ministries. Because every day you are in the eyes of people, every day people come to the congregation and ask you to do this and that and that task. So please, let's not underestimate their mayoral work so much. And the voters, if they're responsible, in four years they'll reward him again or not, they'll choose another if they're wrong. If he acted unlawfully, the law enforcement authorities should sanction him. I also wonder whether this action is so much the same now because the mayors are complaining because they do not get from the country what belongs to them as municipalities so that they can carry out their tasks. And the congregations have a lot of work to do. I also always stress that the larger number of municipalities and smaller municipalities are also the most equitable development of Slovenia. Although I am happy that we have a beautiful capital and that it is developing and, on the other hand, Slovenia is more than just the capital. If we want to be a beautiful country, a tourist country, then it is only right that the whole country develops and it is the congregations that bring much to development. Let us repeatedly listen to the mayors about what they tell us, what our laws will do in real life in the congregations, and we will learn much from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u149	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, such a call from the mayors could be supported if, in the proposal itself, a person could find that it is really that original desire to raise some level of local self-government. I wonder if that's really necessary. Today, we have heard a lot about the responsibilities that the mayors actually have. We have also heard what affects their work. If the proposer were truly sincere in this proposal, then the matter would be resolved in its entirety. Why just the mayors? Why not the saints elected by the majority electoral system? They are blameless, they are not sinning. No, but, well, there were only one function to do, and that's mayoral. I can see why. Because the proposalr also said well because it was political control. Now, because we don't fit politically, we're going to collect signatures and we're going to start new elections. Then shorten your mandate, it is exactly the same because I say that if it comes to political motives, the signatures will be collected in each congregation. Then it is absolutely the best solution to shorten their mandate and you will not embarrass them because of political decisions. And given the great responsibility the mayors have, I wonder who else will want to go to these elections, so that, after not sitting well in their office, they will start by predicting signatures when they do not fit one society in the middle of the big congregation, they will collect their signatures. Of course, I also trust voters and voters, but, you know, the problem is that they don't always have objective information. Unfortunately, many media or so-called fourth branch of government also help in this objectivity. Today we have already heard from Trček, who spoke of a serious lawbreaker, this is the mayor of Trebnje. He wrongly signed one order, he didn't even know it was wrong. And he's a serious violator! On the other hand, we have the Mayor of Ljubljana, who is very obvious to him; I would say that big pigs are obvious, only no proceedings have been concluded before the court. It's interesting, it's very fast for some of them, but there's no rush for others. So you know, here's what's going to be objective, or whether the electorate is going to be able to make an objective decision at that very moment is very difficult. It is true, however, that we have elections, and then they can decide whether the mayor has actually fulfilled their expectations, or they want to do so. It was also mentioned so-called, because now we're gonna be the local sheriffs. Why don't we take care of the state marshals first, if that's the case? Why did we go after the mayors first? Why didn't we go to the First National Assembly? No, we didn't. No, we're not, Your Honor, because if you were, you'd be a legal majority electoral system, so what are you holding back? So, that's how you behave to a referendum decision. She was played, Mr. Jursha. See, that's it! These are double criteria; they are second-rate. When we decide, it will be when you are other citizens, who do not fit me in the first place, or their decision is not what I want it to be, but we will wave our hand. There it was clear, the Member's resignation, and the will was avoided in a way that changed the constitution. We didn't save that. Not the way the people wanted it. And that's generally the case with the referendum. How many times have we been here in the National Assembly, in this term, talking about referendums if you're wasting money? Yes, strangely, today we do not hear anything about money being wasted when it is held in each congregation for at least once in the elections. Whose money is this? But only because of political will. First-class and second-class, that's the biggest problem in this country. If the criteria were to be the same – and I would not be mistaken, I would not object to calls, but I would be glad to have the hierarchy. In particular, that this decision can then actually be implemented on the basis of objective information. But there are none in this country. Today, it will be possible for the applicant to be wronged, tomorrow it will be possible for Mr Jurša, and for some who are second-rate, it already is. Until we have some other systems in this country to operate in accordance with the Constitution and laws and the criteria will be valid for all and not some things will be dragged forever, and others will be saved overnight, and until we compare big pigs with, I don't know, 200 euros, then such proposals will be in vain because they won't be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues! Mrs. Janja Servant, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to what has been said today that the largest coalition party, because it does not have its mayors, does not mean anything. On the contrary! In the largest customer, the Modern Centre Party, we are very well aware of how local self-government works in Slovenia and we are sure that it works well. We know very well that the mayor's function is a very ungrateful function, and believe me, in these two years I have learned very well what the mayor's job is, how the mayor works every day for the good of his local community, what he has to endure because of what pressures he faces and so on. I can tell you that I don't want to be mayor and it's not easy. In addition to being such a top-notch manager, he must also be a good accountant, good communication skills must have and many more, all in one person. And to say that local self-government means nothing to us, that's really unacceptable. Members who we may have run for office in a congregation that is not our congregation, in which we do not live – Comrade Matjaž, you know very well how much I work in my congregation, and I know very well how much I work in those in which I was elected. And to say that we really don't care about that congregation and those voters, because I work for both congregations for the maximum, every day. That was the second time, the first time it was on the board, and now it's here, and it's the least inappropriate because you know my work and you know it. [[advertising from the hall]] Please sign up, and you will, won't you? [[advertising from the hall]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u153	Please! I know, but [[…]] Mrs. Janja Servant, keep going, don't let yourself be disturbed, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u154	I think that this debate, when we talk about mayors up and mayors down, went in the wrong direction. The mayor's institution is an institution of direct democracy, so it is intended for voters, people. This is the right we give to the electorate. Whoever elects the mayor has the right to recall him. Now in this debate we have started with a purely false position, because none of us are saying that the mayors are bad. On the contrary, the vast majority of mayors are doing excellent work and this good work is also shown on the ground. What is being established with the institution of recall is being introduced because they are voters, the people wanted it because they directly elect it and therefore have the right to recall it directly. This is, as my colleague Trček has already said, a well-established institute is said in many countries. The fact that since 2014, when this proposal was first formulated, conditions have been somewhat tightened; of course, we do not want, as was said today, to have someone for five minutes and they will change behind the bar. We really don't want that. On the other hand, we do not want it to be so acute that it is completely disabled. I am sure that this proposal has somehow found the middle between the two extremes, so that the Institute can be used and it is a little harder to abuse. If I say, say, the numbers to compare that I will not just think about it; in the City of Celje, the number of signatures for the 400 initiative would be required. Then, within 35 days, the State Election Commission shall set a deadline for the collection of signatures or administrative units and the certified signatures of the support shall be collected. For the Municipality of Celje 8 000 338. And that's the number that's the number. Let me say that 13 000 321 voters voted in full in Celje in 2014, and we are now discussing 8 000 338 signatures. The vote was very low, 31.95 per cent and the mayor received 68.86 per cent of the vote. 68.86% of voters are satisfied with his previous work and are now the mayor of 18 years. That was then 9,000 28 votes, and we are now talking – 9 000 28 votes said to have received such high support – about the number of signatures to be collected for the initiative, which is 8 000 338. Well, it won't be five minutes long before one of them makes a deal, will it? The Institute also foresees that one year after the elections and one year before the elections, this institution cannot be used and can only be used once in the term and so on. So these are some of the guardians and are also appointed different congregations — I know that we are talking here today about small congregations, which is also true because 60 percent of congregations are small congregations, but still. It is estimated that up to 5,000 people in the municipality are estimated at 30 percent, up to 20 thousand 25 percent, and so on, for municipalities exceeding 100 000 people, 10 percent of the population. Now there's another aspect. Suppose that this group, as Tomaž said, will send an SMS to his client colleagues and they will collect these signatures. Yes, they may be gathered, but it will be much harder then for the 50 per cent and one vote in the elections to gather against the existing mayor, and it will be even harder to defend this if this does not work out and if this does not work in terms of all the procedures and in terms of the money that the municipalities will spend on this in their budget. And those who initiate this will, in principle, give very good thought to what this will mean from the point of view of the congregation's budget, because he will know that if he fails, the voters will never forgive him. In this way, each one will have consequences for his own actions; either on this side or on the other. And even if it's used somewhere, they'll say, but let's test it out, they will, yes, but never again like that. Once again, it is the right of the electorate, not the mayor's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u155	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! It would be correct to look at the next 6 items of the agenda at this point when we consider the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, and to say to the Slovenian public that this is really a logical whole of the so-called functional laws, but all the other 6 have fallen on the boards, now we are only dealing with how to recall the mayor. First of all, I must say that the debate on the amendment of colleagues and colleagues from SDS is that I will support this amendment, which means that I am not in favour of citizens being able to call off the mayor. That means the SDS amendment. Maybe I'll add: for now. Why for now? Because it's actually a partial solution now. However, this national assembly or some of the parliamentary groups has now come to the mayors. Look, it's not right that we let ourselves go, but we should probably first save the Member's resignation and the parliamentary elections and so on. So we've left all the other officials behind, or we've dumped the laws, and now we're gonna burn down the mayors. That's not right! With a previous government, some of you were sitting in that coalition, starting with a reform of local self-government. Where is this reform of local self-government today? She's nowhere! We also expect that you, like us in the 2008 mandate, will prepare a reform of local self-government in this direction in order to get a second level of local self-government, which we bloodyly need in this country. Well, no. You know how to take money from the citizens, and now you know, and you'll probably also know how to drop the mayor. This is the actual abolition of local self-government and a violation of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, ratified by the National Assembly, I think in 1993. Look, it's not right. That's not right. The National Assembly, or a better coalition, or the Ministry of Finance, boasts that we have made the 2017 and 2018 budgets a step further towards balance, say another part – yes, also at the expense of local self-government! We have laws, but you don't respect them. This government does not respect them – I mean, of course, the average or the Budget Enforcement Act. Of course, the municipalities can't afford money and that's why you're left with a quarter of a billion euros; a quarter of a billion, that's the right number. I'm not lying. Since this number is easily calculated and calculated by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of law and methodology. Look, it's not right. In one previous coalition, we had one minister who wanted to abolish the municipalities "de jure". In the back, in a way, you remove – those who support this law – from the “de facto”. You don't give money, but you tell every mayor, look, here's your marriage when the citizens can call you off. If you are, – I won't now, we don't have time to do simulations, but I can tell you that in some small microcommunity, thank God we have one, too, two families can give an initiative to call off the mayor. Then let's say that this initiative fails, then some two other families are giving the mayor an initiative to call it off. Look, don't joke! We have forgotten, however, who was the one who turned or changed the sign of economic growth in 2013. Local self-governments, municipalities carried out cohesion projects, were at the target level of the previous financial perspective. Thank God we have implemented many cohesion projects and don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, about 80%, maybe even more, public investments run by municipalities, run by mayors. What kind of investment is being led by the state today? It's hard to remember. And now you're going to burn these mayors and you're going to show them that they're in danger of being called off. The recall instrument must be the consensus of this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u157	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u158	Vice President, thank you for your word. In fact, I did not intend to discuss — I apologize — on this subject, but in some ways some things encouraged me to say a few things from my point of view. The package of functional laws, as my predecessor, the debater from Pomurje, Mr Horvat, has said, has indeed not been adopted. Unfortunately, he was not accepted, but not because of morals, but because of ethical and so on, but mainly because of the CAP – healthy farmers of intelligence – we should limit ourselves so that you do not listen, let us leave this behind, I do not even discuss, but that one who is sentenced to a certain period of imprisonment cannot come to the National Assembly. [[…]] And look, dear God, you didn't support this! And then you say that the others are now limiting the mayors. Yes, at the time without bad news, I would actually vote in favour of what some of you did not want to accept, but, of course, also for this proposal, to actually give citizens the opportunity to call off the mayor if this mayor is not good. But by the way, we can explain things differently. Now I will have a bad conscience because the first one because of the SDS, because of New Slovenia, because of the unrelated Members, we will not actually be able to accept it. I'm here to go, but let's limit our mandate. And not only the mayors' mandate, God forbid, but we who sit here, perhaps even saints who are at municipal level, and perhaps others, because it can happen that some individuals and groups then usurp power in a certain area. and that is not what we want, and that is not democratic, and for democracy we must, of course, take part in this house. You know, right now we can't just talk like that, but the congregations don't get any money. They really don't get it as much as they'd like to get it and as much as they might need it because they'd run investments. Yes, some congregations would do so, but some do not. You know, the key problem was that today we're talking or talking about two families being able to call off the mayor. No, that can't happen. But you know what's important? That you are in the past or that we — I have not been involved — I must admit that we have established congregations as mushrooms in the rain that did not meet even the basic conditions. Let's just say, let's face it! We must not close our eyes, and perhaps a small number can make calls now. At the end of this very short implementation of mine, I will draw the line and say - I would be very happy to vote for those laws that you have actually held back and we will not vote on them. With great joy! Then I wouldn't have a moral cat to vote for this law, which is bound to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u159	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very attentive to both today and the last time on the Committee of Members who are talking about the possibility of abuse because I would not like to accept something that is excessively misused. Here it seems to me that we can all agree that we can trust the SDS Members in the first place, that if they recognize an institution as an opportunity to use it for something that would then make it difficult to do the work that this institution has used – it is said that it cannot deal with the work for which it has been called, but it is working to respond to such an institution or that some political pressure is being exerted – it seems to me that they can be trusted to understand these possibilities of using any institution for such purposes. But when I look at what kind of guards we've built into this, I think the abuse will be very difficult. If we look at the first security guard, it is that this institution can be used once on a mandate; therefore, some inflation of the abuse of this institution cannot occur. If once a term of office, it means that, as the case has been, it is only once that one family has been given an initiative. That's already the first very strong security guard. The second is that the number of signatures you need isn't that small. Okay, so in small congregations, it can only be 15, but you have to get to 2 000 500 signatures and that's the other one. If we say that some society will now decide, because the mayor did not agree with them in something to collect these few signatures as a joke – yes, perhaps indeed, but you should be aware that this society also loses credibility, because it will be clear to everyone what is going on, why they are doing it, that it is a matter of some narrow interests. Then, to get through this third stage, they say they get enough signatures for a request, but it is, who will sign for someone who is clear that it is an abuse, where it is clear that they are only going against the mayor because he worked for the good of the congregation and not, let's say, for the sake of their narrow interest. However, if they also collect enough signatures for the request, there is a fourth guard; that is, a protector that more than half of those who come to the vote – these must be 90 percent of those who came to the last election when the mayor was elected. So, the fuse is enough, I think they're strong enough, but at the same time they're still allowing the possibility of this institute being used here and there. It is a matter of giving voters the opportunity to decide again in the middle of a mandate if things are happening that make them unable to agree to their decision in the last elections. That's why I don't think this institute is going to be a problem and I'm going to personally support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I'm asking, colleagues and colleagues, does anyone else want to discuss this? I can see that. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much. My signature is also under the package of legislation we wanted to amend. Absolutely not just under the law we're talking about today. Dear colleagues, tell me, with what face are you setting the rules for someone else today? What face? It is not unusual for us to set rules for ourselves with a two-thirds majority, but for the mayors with a simple majority; but so many faces together we could have to say no if we are not willing to make order first in our own house, then we will not do order with others. I don't think until we set ethical, moral, I don't know what standards, we don't have the right to do this for anyone else. Once again, yes, my signature was given under the whole package. The colleague who mentioned it well knows that signatures can no longer be withdrawn at this time. I make it clear that I am still in favour, I am still in favour of everything we have invested, but as a package. Well, the mayors told us to make order at our doorstep first, and then we come to work elsewhere. Interestingly, this law is currently supported by parties who do not have a single single mayor. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, they'll tell me. But they also have another problem. It is indeed irresponsible that today we are discussing how right it is for people to tell mayors what is right, what is wrong, what is wrong, and it is absolutely right for policies to be limited. It's absolutely right! In fact, this proposal, or as the first to be signed, was created by the Allied Party. A colleague who was first signed also sat in another parliamentary group at the time. Now the question is, I'm being approached by voters who gave him a vote or say we didn't give him a vote, we gave the Alliance a vote. What can we do? And Mr. Zajc said before me, if things happen that voters disagree with – what can they do? They didn't give a vote to the party where the colleague is sitting. Is that ethical? Is that moral? Should we make an order here? Tell me how and what! I'm the first to sign that there should be rules, but they should apply to everyone. I'm not protecting any mayor; we've got good, we've got bad, we've got mayors who are also convicted of their sins, but let things apply to everyone. Starting with us. I only have one vote, I've signed for all four, I think, marriages, six laws; now we only have one on the table. Let's really ask ourselves if that's right. Let’s really look in the mirror and say no if we don’t have the will — and apparently they don’t — I still have the mirror. Obviously, there is not enough will in this House at this time to make peace with Members. And let's start at the top! Once again, I don't have a problem that even mayors can call off. But why are they the first to explain this to me? Because, by chance, you only need 46 votes for this law. And that's not right. That's not right! Let's look in the mirror, ladies and gentlemen. Think again if it is right to start working in order with others. I think it's much more appropriate to start this on our own. If we don't add up to 60, let's say who is the one who doesn't support it, but let's not start with the others. What if we have legally convicted Members sitting between us? What? Nothing, nobody can do anything! But the parishioners could, because only 46 votes are needed, someone called back. Together, let's all make rules and make a dot. For this reason, just because we didn't know, we were able, however you want, to start with ourselves first, the law we're talking about doesn't have my voice. But that doesn't mean that or that we're all-powerful, that we're allowed everything. Just, please, let's start with ourselves!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Representative, please, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u164	We heard that show. I'm gonna be very nice, and I'm gonna have to put some stuff in the right place. He does not hold that if the Member is legally convicted, we can't help him. Remember the case of Happy Friend, but it has to happen during the term of office, not before the term of office, as the Constitutional Court has decided, and the Constitutional Court has said that if you want to arrange it, you have to change the law first, but the Law on the Electoral Package, we will talk about it later, but you were against it. So don't talk in this direction, it doesn't mean we didn't want to fix it. Second thing. What is more important if it really is that we have to set things up and give up – the presidents, allow me to stop because he comments — if it is possible? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u165	Please, peace in the hall! Mr. Möderndorfer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u166	If it is true that something has to be arranged for Members of Parliament in the same way that we now want to explain plastic as well as for mayors, of course, it is normal to blur the image. Let's face it, the mayors also had a provision in Article 1 that if they're legally convicted, blah blah blah, I don't say what we all know we can't do this function anymore, but it went out because all the other laws have fallen in this area. So don't say it's not like that, and we've evened out here. But the fact is, as my colleague, Ambassador Alenka Bratušek, has already said, that she signed under this package because there was a whole package before. In the previous term, it was only under this law that it signed, which dealt only with this issue. She didn't have a dilemma at the time. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, sure. Her well - known sentence is that if we have done wrong before, let us do better now, otherwise — or what we would call it, but irrelevant. Of course, the problem is that today we want to make an impression, like giving some to the mayors and hanging some chain around their necks, and I don't know what else to do and making criminals out of them. I'm sorry, it's a delusion! And I repeat: mayors in the vast majority, very large majority, are decent and very good at their work and their profession. But it's an instrument that we give to voters and voters. Today was again the question, who are we in the National Assembly, that we will be setting something here by a local community. Where do we have this face? I'm sorry, who wrote the first or passed the first law on local self-government? I'm the National Choir! Who else can do that? No one but the National Assembly. And the voters always say, over there in Parliament, please arrange for this to be arranged in the local community. Don't make excuses now! Will the mayors handle this for themselves? They don't even have the power of marriage. They can't do anything – and I'm saying as I want to, Mrs Ludmila, so don't think I'm gonna get hit by a stroke. That's what Gorenak thinks because he has a problem with it because he's afraid I'm gonna get sick, and I honestly believe that's the way it is. But at the principle level, we need to know, when we regulate things, we need to sort them out in a way that they can, of course, endure. We have made this very clear by this law that we are regulating things like the democratic state with a significantly longer tradition than we are here in the Republic of Slovenia, and functioning and no abuse. They don't have anything on liquid tape, all those fears you're afraid of. But in fact, admit it, all week long the phones have been ringing and the mayors of the MPs are calling, for God's sake, if you're going to adopt this law, if you press this green button, you're going to get your plate back to us where you're going to be loved. That's what's going on. You don't think I'm getting these calls and these eyes? [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. But that's right. But I can be very upset! [[…]] [[...]] Mr Horvath said this: Two families can make a call from the mayor. If hypothetically so, then this mayor was elected with only three families because the system is so set up if the one who does something — Mrs. Ludmila Novak — would say that it is necessary to learn to count and count. The system is so designed that 90 percent of those should come to the elections. The thresholds are so high that you can't just abuse them. But still, you will not believe, for starters – it is said only for the initiative – even a higher percentage is set up as a simple referendum, but we are saying that it is a human initiative; there are 2 percent and we have given 3 percent. Well, we work for the mayors even higher. Don't joke! It's a simple word conversion, someone's afraid of something. On behalf of the people, you say this is not fair to the mayors. I think the marriage, if adopted, will make a new one, and in two years' time, no one will say it's bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u167	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u168	It is a pity that I have not received an answer as to what people can do if they are not satisfied with the Member's work during the term of office. What can 700 voters who are dissatisfied with the MP's work do? What do you want me to say to them? I don't have an answer. I don't have an answer. The Alliance received 40,000 votes, one quarter of the parliamentary group took a colleague with 700 votes. Even though people write, they tell me, we didn't want to give the voice to the party in which it is now. Nothing! And people aren't happy. Mr. Zajc, what do they do? They're not happy with that. There's nothing they can do. So the point of my performance is just this, yeah, let's make order, but let's make order for everyone and start at home. That's all. That's all I want to say. I'm not – although I want to be created now, as if those of us who don't support it today are against making order. That's not true! That's not true. I also signed for the whole package. But, ladies and gentlemen, please, let's start with ourselves. You can't have a face to make rules for someone else if our national council can do what it wants. Nor is this resolved if the Member is sentenced during the term of office. It's not solved. It's not solved! We have cases like this, even though someone smiles. It's not solved! The parishioners would therefore – even the SMC asks a mayor to resign, but he doesn't care about the MPs. Those are double criteria, and that's not how it's supposed to work! Once again, I support the whole package, but let's gather forces, write the laws as necessary, we still have time, and change the rules and conditions for everyone. And I agree, the vast majority of mayors are great mayors, and what we're talking about here today also seems, nicely said, stupid, because it's falling after everyone. It falls on everyone as if all Slovenian mayors — ugly words — are bastards. They're not. They're not! Let's make the rules, but, once again, let's start in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u169	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. [[advertising from the hall]] A debate? The debate, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Ah, you don't have time, Mr. Möderndorfer. [[advertising from the hall]] But as a member of the SMC, you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Vice President. I owe you an answer to my colleague, Alenka. I'm sorry, I haven't been able to answer, I'm going to be absolutely right now. However, once again, before I answer how this can be resolved, it is necessary to distinguish very clearly – a Member can only be elected in a proportionate manner. We all know what that means. Therefore, such a call to citizens and citizens in order to be able to recall their Members is not feasible for technical, purely basic reasons. But then we have one more thing to deal with, and then we have another thing to do – an imperative mandate for Members, which means a change of constitution, not just a majority system. So compare the MP to the mayor and today the populism here shout at the cameras, how to do something equivalent for the mayor and something for the MP – sorry, that's not the same! Look at the democratic countries, how they are arranged, look at the literature, and then perform here and talk about how nice that would be. But it is true that in the inn debate we can say that if it is the same for mayors, it must also be for Members and everyone else. This is the inn debate – I apologize – which Members, I think, are going through much more and it is the right thing to do; and if not the other, they can also explain to their voters and voters why some things are not feasible at this point. Answer to a colleague: No problem! Start the constitutional amendment procedure so that you can dismiss the Member on a proposal from citizens and citizens in the middle of the mandate. This is very simple and that is clear to you. This is clear to you, no problem being done, but today we are talking about the mayor's withdrawal institution, which has all the conditions and, last but not least, that is the way they know in most democratic countries where Members are not equally free to call back, they are not. Resolve in Germany in Bundestag one Member – you cannot! Resolve in Germany in the Mayor of Bavaria – this is how you can do it. That's the difference. We continue to refer to these democratic countries, how they have this arranged, which have tradition, and I don't know what else. But we don't want to hear it for ourselves. Once again, we give it to voters and voters, not mayors. Municipal councillors – there is no problem, only the majority system needs to be put in place and the same will apply to them. But voters aren't as crazy as some people think they are. At first, they did not fully understand the interpretation that the mayor, when elected, must also be elected because otherwise the mayor will not have the majority. Today, everyone at the local level understands this, more or less. They also know that once you get rid of him, he won't have most of them inside. And now to say that these same voters know how to act in elections, but they don't know how to act at the call, I'm sorry, and then you really underestimate all citizens. That's amazing. Then they will be able to vote and decide who to choose, and who to call off is not the best. I mean, we have different vats for the same thing. That's how it feels to me that things don't have to be so simple. Once again, I regret that the vast majority, including the Group of Unknown Members of Parliament, except for one Member, which I will mention later, have not given support to the law that we will have at the next point. This, of course, prevented them from discussing this in the package. But in the package – why? Since only one provision was the same as in all other laws, but we did not call off the Institute because it was originally meant as a stand-alone act, and then we agreed to put it in a package. In order to regulate one penalty provision for all officials in the same way. And that was the main purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u171	We have two procedural procedures, first Mr Matjaž Han and then Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Jani, hat down, you are a master of words, but I must say, Vice-President, that you may warn Jani when she discusses and I know she is in the game, but that if we discuss and maybe we are a little different against this proposal, that does not mean that we are discussing the inn and that was my procedural proposal. Now I'm gonna take advantage of something else. I listened very well to all of you and very good point was given by Mr Rabbit Good – a dangerous point! In fact, what he said is most dangerous for us to adopt this law. You know what he said? "If we don't agree with the mayor's decisions..." Hello? Democracy, most in the municipal world? It is necessary to win, it is necessary to win the majority and you can influence decisions. And since I'm just not going to agree that the road won't go left or right, that this plumbing isn't going to be built first or that plumbing, no, I'm going to get into action and take down the mayor. It should be if the mayor steals something, then he has to go, not if you don't agree with the decisions! But here's the most dangerous thing you say. That's what Zajc said, that if we disagree with the mayor's decisions to throw the mayor away, we call him off. Hello? And with our government, where me and you are, this moment 70 percent of people disagree, and yet we work! Let us also be realistic, realistic and dignified in these discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u173	Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u174	Mr Vice President, I ask you to help me find out what the colleague is talking about the Group of Unaffiliated Members, what we have done. [[…]] Otherwise, I was away for 14 days, so I couldn’t even take part in the meeting that dealt with these laws. So I demand that I be told where and when my opinion has been expressed that a colleague can use it. Otherwise, it's unacceptable not to say anything further. If you need to take a break to find out, please do. I won't let my voice operate any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you. You were more than clear, mag. Cousin. I can't force anyone, but we can see if Mr Möderndorfer will respond and see that he does. Mr. Möderndorfer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u176	I will respond, but I will be at the next point and there will be an answer, because I am not going to spend and mix pears and apples. I'm talking about the election package, and that's what I'm talking about. I know what she's up to, and she's gonna get that answer. No problem, I promise her that as ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u177	Procedurally, mag. Cousin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u178	Please, my friend, because we are talking about this law and this vote to make it clear where and when I, in the process of adopting this law, expressed my opinion in any way other than by signing the law when we introduced the law. And please don't: I'll be next time, and I'll be next time, and I'll be in half an hour. Say it now! We're talking about this marriage and tell us why you're manipulating me with my voice. I'm not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u179	I understand that as procedural. Was it meant for me? Does anyone have an answer to that? I see you don't. Colleagues, colleagues. Just a moment, mag. Cousin. [[…]] I'm just checking to see if you still have time to discuss it. If you do, I'll give you my word immediately, if you don't, I'll ask you for a procedural one if it's allowed in these boxes. Just give me a second to check it out. Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, you have a minute and a half. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u180	I have not manipulated, nor that we want it to be impossible for the mayors to be determined that we are manipulating how Members should be otherwise and so on. Yes, different procedures are in place, so some have decided before us. I can't help it. But I can influence that we don't set rules for others first, but colleagues and colleagues, please, let's do this for ourselves first. Let's do this to ourselves first. If we have to change the constitution, we change the constitution. It's no problem if there's two-thirds of us for it, and I believe we'll find a common language, so let's do it. But not now under the guise of justice, of ethics, and I don't know what to make of the rules to someone else first. We set a very, very, very bad example. We don't have to do something, but someone else does. And that's not right, and it's really wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u181	Colleagues, colleagues, if there's any time left, I'm asking you if anyone else would like to discuss this point. I can see it's not, which is why I'm closing it. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Moving on to 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. AND 12. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on favours in the national assembly, a bill on amendments and amendments to the law on business, a bill on amendments to the law on amendments to the laws of the President of the Republic and amendments to the law on amendments and amendments to the law on amendments to the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a bill on amendments to the law on amendments and amendments to the law on local laws. The draft laws were submitted to the National Assembly by groups of Members and Members. The bill is proposed at the 27th session of the 5th session. Ten. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 11. 2016 considered the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as a parent working body, with the exception of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Members, adopted at its 25th session. Ten. 2016 and at the 28th session, held on 30 June 2016. 11. 2016 dealt with by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Since the Committee and the Commission have not adopted the articles of the draft laws after the discussion, the second reading of the draft laws at the meetings of the two working bodies has been completed. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. At the 80th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly 2. 12. 2016 was agreed to hold joint presentations of the views of the Group of Members on all proposals for legislation. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor to present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today, for the second time in this mandate, we are saying good-bye to a package of amendments to electoral legislation that would prevent the country's most important functions from being carried out by convicts and prisoners. We supported the main objective of these laws in the United Left, but we advocate a transparent and fair political system. Our arrangements and the constitution of such moves, of course, make it possible. The introduction of these restrictions would not be specific. These are the standards of urban democracy known from Germany, France and the Netherlands to Estonia, Poland, Slovakia, Greece, and another country could count. There are no reasons why we could not arrange such a thing in Slovenia. Therefore, it is only the exercise itself that is problematic, the recording of these restrictions in the field laws. This may not be as simple as it seems at first sight. Unfortunately, what we have repeatedly warned the Socialists of coalition species – after the first package of this legislation fell due to poor preparation, the coalition, in which legal experts and doctoral titles, have re-entered the procedure of completely reckless and incomplete laws. The result is, of course, appropriate. One and a half years have passed since the beginning of the legislative procedure. All this time, we've been working on how to fix the laws so they won't be in violation of the constitution. Finally, after a number of coordinations, several attempts and suspensions of the hearing, two votes were lost on the parental committee, one vote missing even from the government coalition because the Member in question was late for the vote. And the end, unfortunately, corresponds to the beginning: poor preparation, infamous performance. But it's not all that black. It appears that the support will receive a small but very important part of the electoral package, this is the mayor's recall, which we have discussed at the previous point, and this recall gives the people a very important new instrument of democratic control over their representatives. It must also be borne in mind that this mandate is not yet over, but in the United Left we can be sure that by the end of the mandate we can harmonise and adopt a whole package of laws that will achieve the necessary legal and political standards. Last but not least, we are also invited to amend the decisions of the Constitutional Court. What I want to say is that the United Left at this point is offering a hand of cooperation because it is never too late for democracy. Even if we say goodbye to this unfortunate package of legislation today, we still have time to do it again and to do it right.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u183	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. He will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! We are talking about a package of functional proposals for laws that are inextricably linked to each other and which interfere with one of the fundamental political human rights. We are therefore talking about constitutional matter, a major interference with passive electoral law, which requires the legislator to be the most prudent. The very idea of proposing that political space should be cleaned up and that access to the highest public functions of persons with criminal backgrounds should be prevented, however, is on the ground. In New Slovenia, we have repeatedly stressed that the highest political functions in the country and at the local level – the functions of the Member, the President of the country, the President of the Government, ministers, mayors, state and municipal councilors – can be occupied only by persons with the highest moral and personal integrity. However, in order to realize the cleansing of political space, it is necessary to find a way consistent with the Slovenian Constitution and the constitutionally guaranteed rights of individuals. Restricting passive electoral rights, as proposed by the novelties of functional laws, is not in accordance with our constitutional order, in our firm conviction. As it is an active and passive electoral right to fundamental human rights, it is essential for each limitation to be preceded by a proportionality test and a legitimacy test or, in other words, that fundamental right can only be restricted in cases where it is a matter of interference with the rights of others at the same time and where such an intervention permits the constitution as the hierarchically highest legal act in the country. In relation to this test, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has determined in one of its decisions that solutions must also be based on the comparative arrangements acceptable in modern and democratic societies. The Constitutional Court also refers to the Code of Good Practice in Election Cases adopted by the Venice Commission. As one of the reasons for the seizure of electoral rights, he also provides for a criminal conviction for worse crimes. These may, of course, only be presumptive offences, taking into account the nature and gravity of the offence, the length of the prison sentence and the duration of the prohibition itself. The proposed amendments and additions to these laws have exceeded these criteria as a single restrictive condition by establishing a legal and binding conviction to a non-conditional prison sentence of more than 6 months for the duration of the sentence and one year after the sentence has been suspended, suspended or suspended. In New Slovenia, we are therefore convinced that cleaning of the political space is necessary, but it must be done in a manner consistent with the Constitution. At the same time, anyone who is restricted to passive electoral rights must be provided with an appropriate remedy and judicial protection. Let us explain here that most European Union countries have no legal limitations on passive electoral rights, and only ethical standards are sufficient for these purposes. The fact is that it is these standards in our country that are at a very low level also among the highest officials and that the implementation of the proposed amendments alone would not lead to greater ethical standards and a return to confidence in the judiciary. In Novi Slovenija, we also stress that candidates for the highest positions must be taken care of in the first place by the political parties themselves, who propose to elect only those candidates who are not burdened with criminal history. There's something else we can't overlook. That voters are fully free to decide which candidate is to be elected, and we cannot absolutely limit this right. This would be a non-trust to the electorate who estimates that the individual candidate enjoys their trust. If we are to decide on the legal limits of passive electoral law, this must be determined in a manner comparable to other European legislation. Since the proposed solutions to these criteria are not sufficient, the Christian Democrats have not supported them. Perhaps it would be better for the Government to prepare future amendments to all the functional laws, which so far only passively cooperated or passively observed.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u186	Have a nice hello next time! Today we really end with a package of so-called electoral laws of the six laws, which we really wanted to implement only one; what is normal, acceptable, understandable, logical and also expected to be done on this, but not understood by most Members and Members of the National Assembly. This is also to address the issue of a legally convicted official on more than 6 months of unconditional punishment and at the same time what the Constitution allows us and gives us the opportunity; this is also an intervention in passive electoral law, and in the part that I will explain later in what way, especially because I expect, of course, different interpretations today behind this speaking stage, what really wanted to do with this electoral floor. Let's do it in a row. This package was put in for one purpose and it was with seven laws, one under the previous item, and we will decide on it today. This package, however, has ended its journey on the home committee itself, since we have not received two-thirds support and a clear message that we do not yet need such legislation. The fact is, in the political parties, we both agreed on the SMC, the Social Democrats, Desus and the opposition United Left and Members of the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek at the time, today of the Alliance, how to actually implement this package so that, of course, it could experience a two-thirds majority. When he was put into the procedure alone, the agreement was to intervene, because we were acquiring the remaining majority – in 2015 we agreed – to make such a package definitively. The signatories of this package agreed together on the very limitations that would apply in the run-up and later in the management of the public office – so says the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the Ministers, the Members of the National Assembly, the Members of the European Parliament from Slovenia, the Councils, the Mayors and the Municipal Councils – and then, of course, we agreed to include the Mayor's Institute in this package, so that we can work together, even as far as this is concerned, with all the officials. Well, the enforcement of constitutional decisions has also been one of the leaders to regulate this so-called package at three levels; one with regard to the vote of persons with disabilities, the other with regard to the vote by post and the third with regard to the early termination of the mandate of Members, as discussed by the three constitutional decisions. The fourth constitutional decision was linked to the previous point, it is said, to the mayor's resignation. What matters most to us? The fact is, before we talked about how to write this law, that it would also have some normal possible judgment in the event that someone decided to do so, is that we came from the following starting points. Slovenia is one of the few countries that has not yet introduced into legislation an opportunity to allow foreign countries and private institutions to observe electoral procedures. At the same time, this package resolved to ensure equal opportunities for men and women in the national elections. Indeed, the fact is that what we have set up for the local elections and elections of Members to the European Parliament is not regulated for Members elected to the National Assembly, which is that this representation of the sex ratio of 40 per cent has been established. Why have we been discussing the electoral package for so long? We've already heard today that one of the explanations is that we've been waiting for a year and a half. It is not true, we have not waited a year and a half, but since it is an intervention in passive electoral law, it was more than clear that the consultations with both constitutional lawyers and various stakeholders were very rich and, in particular, in order to be recorded as proposed in the end. The fact is that one of the basic laws that bears the whole package is the Law on Elections in the National Assembly. That is why we have focused on this basic law, because, as you regulate the basic, fundamental law, this law has a bearing on all other laws governing elections and all relations between other officials, both executive branches of government, legislative and judicial. By sending the procedure to the hearing and when we came to the hearing, when we found that there was a possibility that we would not get support for a two-thirds majority – i.e. it was just one vote – we stopped the matter and tried to deal with it in particular to get support throughout the package. The story of how the electoral package ended is well known. The amendment of the Law on Members at the meeting of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission has also seen the same fate. As the first-signed candidate, it was clear to me already in 2014 and 2015, when the package started the legislative path, that we would need two-thirds of the electorate or MPs if we wanted to adopt such a package. But the fact is that from the candidates who are proposing certain solutions – there is a need to put their hands on the heart, changes, and even if the officials themselves were able to clear up and know when and at what point to give up, and in themselves it would be clear how these things are served. However, some in our country simply do not understand this, so such a package was urgently needed. What were the basic grounds for us to intervene in passive electoral law? One of the fundamentals is also a comparison; for the first time, as is the case in other countries, and not least the debate and proposal of the Venice Commission, but also at the end of the Constitutional Court's decision, which made the following very clear: An intervention in passive electoral law is possible, the constitution permits this, but it must be done in proportion and amended before that. At that time, when the Constitutional Court ruled on it, the legislation was not regulated as it is not yet today. The Venice Commission, whose aim is simply to preserve the three most important principles of European constitutional heritage: democracy, human rights and rule of law. Accordingly, the Commission also gives its views on elections and referendums. In the opinion of the Venice Electoral Law Enforcement Commission, both active and passive, it can be determined in three cases. This is, for the first time, the condition of age, secondly, citizenship and residence in the country. In addition, existing electoral rights may also be withdrawn for other reasons and the following conditions must be cumulatively laid down. This is that the withdrawal is provided by law that the principle of proportionality is respected, with the conditions for the confiscation of passive electoral rights being less stringent than the conditions for the confiscation of an active electoral right; that the confiscation is based on mental incapacity or criminal conviction for serious crimes and that the confiscation of political rights or the finding of mental incapacity is determined by a judicial decision. In addition, last October, the Venice Commission adopted the Report on the Limitations of Electoral Law on the Sentence of Crime, which is the following. In fact, she stressed that it was an impossibility to limit the right to free elections and therefore must be based on three clear principles: first, on clear legal standards, secondly, to pursue a legitimate objective and respect the principle of proportionality – thirdly. In addition, the legislator must take into account three important decisions in determining the limitations under the principle of proportionality: the nature and severity of the offence, the second or the length of the prison sentence and, lastly, the duration of the prohibition. Indeed, these were all the provisions that led us to that point so that we could better prepare this set of legislation. We have reviewed the full electoral legislation of countries in the EU. We can say that where there is a longer tradition of democracy, these interventions into passive electoral law do not need; where it is shorter or very restrictive, of course they have done so in accordance with these principles, even in other countries. What matters to us is, of course, that it has been very clear in the law in particular: for the first time, that guilt must be legally proven and, of course, not permanent. Therefore, this intervention into passive electoral law must be very clearly defined within the law in order not to be abused later on. Above all, it was a problem for me to say very simplisticly if, for example, we in Members could find that we have a settled question about how, when you are legally convicted during the remainder of your term, of course, this was not clear before or when someone was already convicted, he went to the elections. And here we are talking and we are reminded by the Constitutional Court that this issue needs to be settled. We have agreed on this, and we have also very clearly defined this in this electoral package, which is that we have set exactly the same provisions for all officials at all levels. So, if they were different before, of course, this was the same for everyone in this legislation. Some will explain today that this law was primarily intended for and exclusively for a particular case — what they like to say — and we will hear that this package was, of course, made for the sake of Mr Janez Janša. Let me categorically reject these findings. Especially because they're talking about the Musculo package. Firstly, such restrictions had been drawn up many years before the relevant legal convictions had been carried out. Secondly, what's important is that in the Musculo package, of course, there was a proposal that he simply couldn't stand, which is that the official could have been eliminated if it were just a legal charge. It is said, not even legally condemned, which of course is not in this law. We are talking in this law about a legal conviction. Last but not least, more importantly, the law was put into action when Musculo was made, when Mr Janez Janša had not even had the final decision in court. That is why, of course, this is not the case, but it is the fact that we have already had certain dilemmas in Parliament, and not least cases. Remember the Kangler case, remember the Friends case; in short, these were all the cases when the topic was actually being opened, whether this legislation should be properly regulated in order to have its basis. Let me remind you, in the mandate of the Pahor's Government, the mandate of SNS Member Srečko Friend was terminated and the whole story took place without a big pump. Only later did we really have a case where, in fact, the whole thing escalated and we had all the open dilemmas in the country. The cases proved legitimate in the Constitutional Court that they were not regulated and therefore a package was followed accordingly, which was not the last to address the issue. Let me reject some of the evidence, very briefly, if the State Council did not support it, and therefore, of course, there is no basis for us to make that decision or even accept it in the National Assembly. You know, the State Council went so far as to make decisions in this direction when it said that Members should not decide what the Law on the State Council would be. Again the same dilemma: who should decide if not the National Assembly, and vice versa; they made it clear who and when and in what appropriate way to decide. That is said, but we must not make our own decisions as Members. But they gave us a clear message and they rejected us, and they allowed us to, say, regulate things for the Government and the like. Finally, at the conclusion of this, what I think is personal evidence of how some of the masks actually fell to the end. In fact, when we discussed the package of electoral legislation, we saw various political manoeuvres, how to hide and, in fact, how to support in some way for a while, and then at the last minute, move away your support. Some co-proposers have immediately withdrawn support from the whole package, including the implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions, and have done everything to ensure that the package on the parent's working body did not receive sufficient support or the required 13th vote to continue its trip to today's plenary session. That is why I would like to thank the unrelated Member and the member of the Alliance, Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, for her courage and support, because she wanted to do so, and her leader of the delegation has made this impossible for her, and today, of course, he is not even at the meeting to follow the whole process. But, I can say, in this place she was somehow disabled, because she gave her own signature and support, and she wanted to support this package for the price, so that the matter could go forward to the meeting of the National Assembly. This, of course, also brought the whole thing down, and everyone else who worked together at the time did not, of course, have the ear to support such a proposal. I regret, in the end, that the National Assembly, in another attempt this time with completely different and constitutionally coherent solutions, has not been able to raise political culture in our country. However, I can say that I will wait in view of the common agreement that we have had, and this is to prepare legislation to this extent, to try to bring at least those constitutional requirements that the Constitutional Court expects with its decisions, and unfortunately all the deadlines have already been delayed. And, of course, to make a kind of correction test, to at least introduce this part of the corrections into the so-called Electoral Law into the National Assembly, thereby allowing the legality of the elections themselves. In addition, I regret to say that I will be happy to wait for the next election and to listen to the explanations and explanations of political parties that have not supported this package, what explanations will they give when voters and voters ask them why we have an MP, a mayor or anyone, any other official who is or will be legally convicted, will be able to continue to perform his duties or go to elections and run normally, as if there was absolutely nothing wrong in this country. In short, that's something I don't understand, but maybe you understand better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u187	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Too bad Mr. Möderndorfer's leaving. Anyway, he's probably gonna watch the video or read something. For he said that this was not an ad personal matter, that it was not directed at John Janša. Why, then, does the provision in the Law on Members, where it is specified, have such a purpose, set a time limit for the alternate Member to take up the mandate? Why? This happened to Mr Möderndorfer, probably three years ago. But anyway, let's get to the point. Look, a set of legislation that has fallen so much on the committee – we have a bit of a funny rule anyway; we are now discussing a law that is not. We don't have this package of laws anymore, it's fallen on the parent's working body or two of your mother's working bodies, and now we're discussing it. We're a little funny. This could also be ended in the homework and would no longer be discussed in this hall — something that is no longer there. To be perfectly clear, however, the issues that were settled in these laws began with us in 1996. At the time of its establishment, at least formally by the Constitutional Court, the majority electoral system, which was later rejected by this national assembly in that reference after 2000, of course and changed the constitution. That's where we set up everything we needed to get to some normal system in this country. We don't have a normal system in this country anyway, if we can, I don't know, the municipality of Lithium has, say, three Members, but I'm nothing to them, that's the system, but then we have a region, like Prekmurje, where we don't have any Members. I do not mean in this mandate, I know it is in this mandate, but it was in one of the previous mandates. Look, there's something really wrong with this election legislation. We need – and of course also that you have a Member with 301 votes and a Member with 9,000 votes. In one of the previous elections, Mr Pahor won 9 thousand votes or 8 thousand 900 votes, something like that, and Katarina Kresal received 301 votes. Well, then she's the most important thing in this country, of course. The system should therefore start with the majority electoral system, so that there will be no one in this Chamber who will have less than 50 per cent of the votes. Each member of the National Assembly and every constituency would consequently have one member and they would have 50% support from the people in that environment. It's probably some normal and just system we should have. Of course, everything else belongs in there. Don't think that we were against this package of laws because of the provisions that are in there about the 6-month prison sentences and the consequences of this. That's not the main problem with this country. And it is not disputed and problematic for us, either, but it is disputed and problematic for us to find a group of Members, usually those with the least support, to get together and do something, some product that is shababizer against which everyone, from the State Council, the Legal and Legal Service, legal associations and I do not know everything. Well, who was in favour of this package of laws, except for those who voted on the boards for it? Who else was in? On the committees, at least on the Internal Policy Committee, we then – what did we measure at the end? We had an unconstitutional majority. We had a 100 percent against the law. The president voted differently, okay. So we had a constitutional majority and an even greater majority than the constitutional majority against the law. So the problem is that someone got together and set up this whole system so that they liked it for the current needs. He took a look at what was left open at the Constitutional Court, and that's it. We must also oppose these solutions, which are now in there, even to such solutions. Even to these. But we have to build a house from the foundations to the roof. Mr Möderndorfer has now gone to repair, we'll say, half or a quarter of the roof of the house, but there's no foundation. It's not worth investing in a new brick if you don't have a foundation because it's going to fall together! So we will also support everything on our side when it is prepared in the way I started; from the majority electoral system and beyond. Last but not least, this package of legislation also stipulates that former members of the State Security Service cannot run. That's what this package is all about. Once this is done, she will also have our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u189	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u190	The Honorable President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! We are therefore considering or not even considering today, but we are talking about a parliamentary package of electoral legislation, which has been thoroughly coordinated for a year and a half and supported by the Government. The essence of the proposals for laws is that public functions could thus not be carried out by a person sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months. The same conditions shall be laid down at all levels and from the President of the Government to the Municipal Councilor. Simply put, draft laws would prevent candidates who have sinned against fundamental values in society and have been convicted of doing so, and would also end their mandate. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that there is not enough about ethics and we just have to talk about it, but we have to apply ethics and morality, which is more than obviously possible simply by bridging clear criteria. We have therefore made every effort to clearly define the criteria for the performance of the highest functions in the country, which and under what conditions they can perform, but unfortunately these issues remain open. While colleagues on the right think differently; from their mouths it is often heard that Slovenia is a mafia country. If this is what they mean by the operation of mafia groups, they are partly right, but this is, like elsewhere in the world, a job for the police and justice. What distinguishes us from other democratic countries is that criminals can run for Members and other high state functions and can even be elected and appointed. Members of the SDS and NSIs, who have been vehemently rejecting every thought to prevent people who have been sentenced to more than half a year's imprisonment from sitting in the parliamentary benches, from correcting electoral laws. Of course, I'm not saying that we have convicted criminals sitting between us, but the very idea that this is possible is not very pleasant. Even if we leave moral and ethical standards behind, what is right and what is wrong, the vast majority of people, however, are considered to be farmers' minds, which suggest that the prisoner simply cannot do the work of the messenger. Obviously, our Parliament does not follow this majority. At first, it showed that the proposal had a two-thirds majority, but unfortunately it was not. However, it was not because of the SDS, in which we knew all along how and why they would vote like that, not because of NSIs, in which I am not clear why they are opposed to this proposal, but because of the conduct of the so-called unrelated parliamentary group or their leader. The two members of this group are co-signatures of the electoral package proposal, and the leader of the parliamentary group, who participated in the committee as a exchange for his colleague Laj, was not present at the vote once – someone even said wickedly that there might be a crime lecture – and after a few days of postponement, he abstained in the vote. Therefore, despite the co-signature of half of the Group's members and the declared fight against crime, clientism, corruption and the acquisition of moral and ethical positions in politics, he is not prepared to support the laws that ensure this. Let him understand who can and will. Let me conclude, as I have pointed out in the first reading of the bill proposals, being a Member is not a hobby, it is a paid service and it is still a responsible function. We must all be aware together that we are representatives of the people in state affairs, and we must carry out our function with all seriousness and responsibility. Is it really possible from the prison bench? Both of you, sitting in jail and at the same time being at work is not possible. As has already been said, in the Desus Group, we will continue to make sure that these issues are fully regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u191	The text is by the Group of Ambassadors [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you very much. I don't want to be a lawyer to anyone in here, but it's because the ones you're talking about aren't in this room. The fact is, we had before us the views of the groups of Members, not the accounting with an individual Member. I think that this is incorrect because it was precisely a name, and in this way we certainly cannot give the positions of the groups of Members here. The Group's position is on a package of laws, but if we want to talk about crime and everything else and some part of the law, then we can. We, the presidents, are absolutely in, even when alcohol is involved in crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u193	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u194	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats, as co-signers of this marriage package, which regulates the right to vote, i.e. active electoral rights, and the right to be loved, passive electoral rights, we are following the vote 17. 6. 2015 on the appropriateness of legislation for further consideration, I hope that the text below will be corrected, improved and adopted accordingly. During this mandate, a number of efforts and efforts have been made in the period from June 2015 to date to correct the text accordingly to an acceptable point of support for the adoption of legislation. Sorry we didn't make it. It is also null and void in the second term. The failure of this issue, the regulation of the right to vote and the right to be loved, has been the result of some previous composition of the National Assembly. This matter has been dealt with by our predecessors and, as we do today, you have asked many questions on which, on the one hand, it is very easy and easy to answer, who cannot and cannot be a candidate for a particular function or perform these specific functions. On the other hand, we note that it is not only a difficult constitutional and formal issue but also an important political issue. Let me just remind you of 2013 at this point. A decision has been adopted at the competent working bodies of the National Assembly, i.e. in which the Government and the competent ministry have proposed, within the framework of the legislation, a uniform and systematic constitutionally coherent regime for the appointment and termination of the mandate of officials. It has been estimated that there is sufficient professional support in the executive branch for the preparation of in-depth legislative proposals. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Therefore, and we have rejoined this difficult project – as I said – by their own failure, despite the fact that it was a broader assessment that this issue should be addressed in legislation. Experience so far with the adoption of these packages of legislation, regardless of what we have named them, from Mr Musculo to electoral legislation, shows that the very approach to dealing with such an important issue has not been adequate. Assuming that regulation of this issue is our common objective, we must ask ourselves what else needs to be done. We believe that the basis for the drafting of new legislative proposals is now appropriate. It needs to be upgraded, previously coordinated with parliamentary parties and then, without a fig in his pocket, agreed to support it. Especially because for the two laws contained in this package we need a two-thirds majority of the votes of all Members and Members. We are committed by the Social Democrats to a uniform, systematic and constitutionally coherent regulation of the conditions for the nomination and termination of the mandates of the officials covered by this package. This is from the President of the Republic, the Member of Parliament, the Council, the state, the municipal, to the mayor. That is why we have taken the view that we will not support the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, although it is another institution, the institution calling off the mayor. Obviously, we will leave the decision on who will be the candidate and whether this will be elected to the political parties, to the letters and to the electoral body at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u195	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections in the National Assembly, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of the President of the Republic, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections has been completed. This concludes the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th agenda items. We're moving to 14. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a new law on amendments to the safety and security laws in rail transport, an ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u196	Your Honor! The Ministry of Infrastructure has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Railway Safety Act. The main reason for the proposed amendments is the adoption of two directives, Commission Directive 2014/106 and Commission Directive 2016/882. They refer to the amendment of the technical annexes to existing Directives, Directive 2008/57 on interoperability and Directive 2007/59 on drivers. The amended Annex 5 of the Interoperability Directive refers to the content of the European Community on the verification of subsystems, and the verification declaration procedure has also been improved in the event of changes to existing subsystems. The amended Annex 6 to the Interoperability Directive refers to the same procedure which explains how to verify changes to existing subsystems. The European Community declaration on the verification of the subsystem shall be a declaration by the applicant stating that the subsystem concerned, which has been subject to appropriate verification or verification procedures, complies with the requirements of Union legislation, including all related national rules. The new declaration of verification differs mainly in the fact that the obligation to carry out the verification of the subsystem is added even if it is amended and the possibility of additional verifications is added. Both Annexes also provide that all documentation relating to the verification of the system or subsystem must be in the language of the applicant or the manufacturer or in the language adopted by the latter. This means that documents are in any language of the Member States of the European Community. Commission Directive 2016/882 amends Annex 6 to Directive 2007/59 on the issue of certificates to drivers operating locomotives and trains on the European Union rail network. This amendment simplifies the verification of language skills. A new level of B1 level of knowledge of the Common European Reference Framework for Languages is required. In order to fully transpose the Directive, it is also necessary to amend the Regulation on the Professional Qualification of Enforcement Railway Workers. The proposal also covers the transfer of tasks from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Public Railway Agency concerning the implementation of technical specifications for interoperability. In view of the above, we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the law with the proposed content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u197	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u198	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 24th meeting, on 29. 11. 2016 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In addition, the representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure pointed out that the main reason for the proposed amendment of the Railway Safety Act is the implementation of two Commission Directives 2014/106/EU and 2016/882 relating to the amendment of the technical annexes to the existing Interoperability Directives and to drivers. In accordance with the first amendment of Annex 5 to the Interoperability Directive and relating to the content of the EC declaration of verification of subsystems, the verification declaration procedure in case of changes in existing subsystems is also improved. However, the amended Annex 6 to the Interoperability Directive refers to the same procedure which explains how to verify changes to existing subsystems. The second Directive amends Annex 6 to Directive 2007/59/EC on the issue of certificates to drivers operating locomotives and trains on the EU rail network. It was also explained at the meeting that the proposal for a law also covers the transfer of tasks from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Public Railway Agency concerning the implementation of technical specifications for interoperability. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had examined the proposal of the law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had made certain comments to it, which were fully taken into account in the amendments of the coalition groups. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development explained and stressed that the Commission supports the bill and has no substantive comments on it. Several questions were raised in the debate to the representatives of the proposer, something about the delay in the implementation of both directives, or whether specific sanctions could be expected. The representatives of the proposer explained that the competent ministry is in constant contact with the European Commission on the procedure for implementing both directives and informs it of the individual stages of the adoption of this proposal and is therefore not expected to do so in particular with regard to sanctions. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the Desus Group and the SD to the four articles and the new Article 6a and, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted several articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u199	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is late again with the transposition of directives into our legal order, as it is late to build a second track and to update the entire railway infrastructure. The long-term implementation procedures laid down by our legislation are probably not the only reason we are always late. As it is only a matter of amending the Annexes to the Directives, the competent ministry has only now begun to consider considering, however, the possibility of transferring the less demanding or technical requirements laid down in the Directives to the Slovenian legal order by means of sub-laws. This would significantly reduce the time taken to implement these changes. In New Slovenia, we are aware that the identification of responsible entities in the field of the implementation of technical specifications for interoperability is important. Coordination also between the management of investments in public rail infrastructure, between the operator and the carrier taken over by the security authority. This will also carry out the tasks of the national contact point. The reduction of language requirements for drivers to level B1 of the common European language reference framework in cases where drivers only reach a border station in neighbouring EU Member States leaves an open dilemma. Even if communication between drivers and staff of the railway infrastructure manager is adequately ensured, we do not know the answer to what this means in the event of worsening or emergency situations. Does lowering language standards affect railway safety? The tasks relating to the implementation of the technical specifications for interoperability shall be carried over from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the public railway agency. In our view, this is good, but the Agency itself draws attention to the urgent comprehensive reform of the law as soon as possible. In Novi Slovenija, we have pointed out this urgency in every amendment to the Railway Safety Act, since we have always taken only ad hoc solutions and thus saved the country from the European Commission's sanctions. We suggest that the government prepare the law as soon as possible. The aim is to ensure safe and orderly rail transport, the responsibilities and responsibilities of participants in ensuring railway safety, the development of common safety objectives and common safety methods and common principles in the management, management and control of rail safety. As assured by the Government, a working group has already been set up at the competent ministry, preparing for a recast of the current law. This will have to be a national security regulation that will comply with European legislation. In New Slovenia, we will support today's amendment because we are aware of our country's tasks in this area and because we do not want to see an even greater delay as a reason for the imposition of sanctions. However, we are concerned that the Government is so slow to respond and is doing too little. In particular, he hunts the deadlines for the transposition of directives into our legal order. However, we are faced with the fact that electrified railway lines do not receive enough electricity and that the speed of trains is the same, perhaps even lower than the speed of trains from the time of Mary Teresa.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u201	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Marjan Dolinšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! By means of the amendment to the Railway Safety Act, we are transferring to our legal order the amendments to the two European directives, namely the Interoperability Directive and the Drivers Directive relating to certification to drivers operating locomotives and trains on the Community rail network. Thus, we are not talking about the actual transposition of new content into our legislation, as it is only a matter of minor amendments to the annexes and convocations of the said Directives into the already established legal order. These changes relate in particular to a more precise definition of the scope and content of the declaration of verification of subsystems and the objectives of the verification procedure of subsystems. In addition, the area of linguistic verification shall be covered by reducing the requirements for language level B1 in very specific cases where the driver only reaches the border station of a neighbouring EU Member State, provided that the communication between the drivers concerned and the staff of the railway infrastructure manager is properly regulated in routine, worsened or emergency situations in order to avoid negative effects on rail safety. It shall specify the entities and their responsibilities in the field of the implementation of the technical interoperability specifications and shall coordinate the activities of the Investment Management Authority in the public rail infrastructure of the operator and carriers, which shall also carry out the tasks of the national contact point. The proposed amendment of the law also proposes that the strategy be implemented by the TSI, open issues, specific cases and derogations from the TSI — technical specifications for interoperability — be prepared by the Investment Authority for Public Railway Infrastructure, Operator and Carriers, each for its field of work and coordinated activities by the Security Authority and prepared a coordinated proposal in accordance with European Union legislation and forwarded to the Ministry. It is also proposed that the tasks of the national contact point for telematic applications for freight and passenger transport be carried out by the safety authority. The definition of those tasks is necessary in order to ensure the effective implementation of the specific technical specification for interoperability in the Republic of Slovenia and is consistent with the tasks performed by entities under the rail system, in accordance with the applicable legislation – that is, the Railway Safety Act and the Rail Transport Act and the rules issued on their basis. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the proposal for these amendments to the Railway Safety Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u203	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings from the Ministry, nice greetings to everyone in the National Assembly! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act. The draft law was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration on a regular basis. With this amendment and the addition of the Railway Safety Act, we are transferring two European directives into our legal order. In addition, the proposal for a law regulates in a smaller part the transfer of tasks from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Railway Agency. Both Directives relate to the amendment of the technical annexes to existing Directives; Directive 2008/57 of the European Community and of the Interoperability Directive and Directive 2016/882 of the European Union on drivers. The amended Annex 5 of the Interoperability Directive refers to the content of verifications in the subsystem. The procedure for the declaration of verification in the event of an amendment to existing subsystems is also improved. However, the amended Annex 6 to the Interoperability Directive refers to the same procedure which explains the method of verification by amending existing subsystems. The European Community declaration of verification of the subsystem shall be a declaration by the applicant stating that the subsystem concerned, subject to appropriate verification or verification procedures, meets the requirements of relevant Union legislation, including all relevant national rules. The new declaration of verification differs mainly in the fact that the obligation to carry out the verification of the subsystem is added even if it is amended and the possibility of additional verifications is added. Both Annexes also provide that all documentation relating to the verification of the system or subsystem must be in the language of the applicant or the manufacturer or in the language adopted by the latter. This means that the documents shall be in any language of the Member States of the European Union or in a language agreed by the applicant with the verification body. Commission Directive 2016/882 amends Annex 6 to Directive 2007/59 of the European Community concerning the issue of certificates to drivers operating locomotives and trains on the European Union rail network. The amendment to Annex 6 concerns the verification of linguistic knowledge, which is simplified. A new level of knowledge required is the B1 level of the Common European Reference Framework for Languages. In order to fully transpose the Directive, it is also necessary to amend the Regulation on the professional competence of enforcement railway workers, the draft of which is also an annex to the material. The proposal also covers the transfer of tasks from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Railway Agency with regard to the implementation of technical specifications for interoperability, so-called TSIs. That law was supported by the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and had no comments on it. Since it is mainly a technical law and the transposition of directives, we will not oppose the law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u205	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State! Good bye to all of you! With this amendment and the addition of the Railway Safety Act, two Directives of the European Union are transposed into our legal order, namely Commission Directive 2014/106 and Directive 2016/882, relating to the amendment of the technical annexes to the Interoperability Directives and to drivers. One directive thus amends the content of the declaration of verification of subsystems, which is essentially a declaration by the applicant stating that a subsystem which he wishes to verify meets the requirements of European legislation as well as national rules. At the same time, the language to be used in the verification documentation shall be specified. This may be any language of the Member States of the European Union. The second Directive concerns the issue of certificates to drivers carrying out locomotives and trains on the railway network of the European Union and the verification of language skills, which is simplified. New knowledge is required at level B1 of the Common European Reference Framework for Languages. In order to fully transpose the Directive, it is also necessary to amend the Regulation on the Professional Qualification of Enforcement Railway Workers. The proposal also includes the delegation of tasks related to the implementation of the technical specifications for interoperability from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Railway Agency. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Railway Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u207	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for an archiving code that contains personal data on the patient's health. The draft law was tabled by a group of 50 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Dragan Matić. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! In March 2014, the Constitutional Court found that the Act on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, adopted in 2006, was inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and ordered the National Assembly to abolish the constitutionality established within one year, i.e. until April 2015. The Constitutional Court found that the archiving law was unconstitutional because it also included the material of healthcare providers, i.e. the material containing personal data on the treatment of patients. Unconstitutionality is found in the fact that the archiving of health documentation and its transfer from health institutions where it originates to the public archives with a view to making public access to this ugly means the use of data outside the primary purpose and their selection. The archive material is a function of maintaining collective and individual memory, but in order to achieve this function, it is necessary to make the content accessible and usable for the purposes of science and culture and the legal security of persons. This derogates from the principle of dedication, including the fundamental principle of the protection of personal data. In all these circumstances, the fact that the Constitutional Court has assessed that the storage of sensitive personal data covered by the health documentation by the public authority would constitute an infringement of the patient’s right to the protection of personal data, or the transfer of this material from the health care provider, where a public archive was created in order to make this material accessible. This is said to be the right to the protection of his privacy and personal dignity, both for the patient and for his loved ones. In the drafting of the Archive Material Act, which contains personal data on the treatment of the patient, we followed the guidelines suggested by the Constitutional Court alone in the 22nd paragraph of the decision: for the first time, the repeal of individual articles of the archival law does not take into account, as it would not lead to the abolition of the found unconstitutionalities. It's a system law. Secondly, the Constitutional Court refers to the possibility of archiving health documentation in healthcare providers and, thirdly, although the decision concerns healthcare providers, the constitutional basis of this provision should also be applied when it comes to healthcare providers who are private. To sum up the solutions that the law brings. This is because the material produced by the healthcare provider can be stored in health institutions for up to 150 years from the date of its creation. The material shall then be permanently inaccessible to the public and shall, exceptionally, be accessible only to the patient concerned, then to persons who have the right to be informed of the patient's medical records after his death in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the patient's rights, or the law governing medical activity. Then, when we talk about archival material already in the archives, it is only available for scientific research purposes, but only for researchers registered with the Research Agency, but only for archival material, which is anonymous. In non-animated form, the material is available if the patient or his relatives have agreed in writing after his death. If the patient’s consent is not mentioned above and his relatives do not object, access to the material may be made possible on the basis of the consent of the two committees. First, the archival commissions and at the same time the Commission on Medical-Ethical Issues. They can only allow access to the Commission if this is justified in terms of public interest by the progress of science, which prevails over the interest in non-accessibility, and the research objective cannot be achieved in any other way. At the same time, access is granted only to the extent necessary to achieve this scientific objective. With a view to eliminating the constitutional situation described and following the Constitutional Court's decision, we have tabled the coalition's parliamentary groups as a witness to the law and we propose that you support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u209	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you for your words, Mr President, nice greeting, and you, colleagues in the Chamber. The Committee on Culture shall meet at its 15th regular session. 11. 2016 discussed the proposal for a Law on archival material containing personal data on the treatment of the patient and submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Dragan Matic. In view of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. Her representative said that it contained the main points set out in the decision of the Constitutional Court. On the basis of their comments, proposals for amendments to the Committee following the constitutional conditions laid down in the Decision have been prepared, have sufficient explanations, contain an interpretation of the contents of the archival material, access to and application of this and of the criminal provisions, and are also subject to control over the implementation of the law. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion and explained that they had no comments on it. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the proposaler Dr Dragan Matić. Minister of Culture Anton Peršak and Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Nina Pirnat considered that they supported the proposal of the law, since the last course of preparation was in line with all relative stakeholders and thus adequately tackles the issue of storing personal data on the patient's treatment. In the short debate, however, the opposition MP pointed out that it was right to follow the Constitutional Court's decision by means of a bill, but considered that it was impractical and incomplete. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted proposals for amendments to the committee tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u211	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Culture Anton Persak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u212	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As you know, the Government supports the proposal for a law because it adequately tackles the complexity created by the Constitutional Decision of March 2014. As has already been said, adequate patient protection under this law has been ensured, while providing access for scientific purposes, the law fulfils, if I may say so, its function and is no longer to be added to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u213	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u214	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General. Good afternoon, everyone! The proposal for a law on archival material containing personal data on the treatment of the patient under consideration today corrects the errors of the previous governments and is required by a decision of the Constitutional Court, published in the Official Journal on 4 April 2014. The Constitutional Court has found inconsistencies with the Constitution for the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, insofar as the public archival material is classified as the material of healthcare professionals if it contains personal information on the treatment of patients. However, it ordered the National Assembly to abolish the established unconstitutionality of the so-called archival law within one year. At the end of September, the bill was tabled in the legislative procedure with the signatures of members of the coalition. The Constitutional Court found unconstitutionality in the archiving and transfer of material from health establishments where archival material was created, thus making this material accessible to the public. In addition to the collection of health documentation itself, this also means the use of personal data and their further processing, thus derogating from the principle of the protection of personal data. The health documentation concerns sensitive personal data and is therefore also protected by international rules, EU law and the Personal Data Protection Act. The proposed law is therefore intended to specifically regulate the protection of healthcare personal data in archival material while also regulating the conditions and procedure for exceptional access to the data mentioned. Therefore, conditions for access to material for scientific and research purposes are laid down in particular. On the proposal under consideration, we adopted amendments on the home labour body, but they do not depart from the original content and the purpose of the bill, but the amendments adopted achieve that the law is more transparent and that the content is more distributed. The bill provides that health operators and the National Institute of Public Health shall deliver the archive material to the competent archive no later than 150 years after its creation. An essential part of this law, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, is the provision that archival material under this Act is not available to the public and is accessible to the patient concerned. After his death, however, it is established under the Law on Patient Rights and the Health Act. The bill further lays down the conditions for exceptional access to archival material, which is the material found in public archives. This is material that is important for research, history and medical development, which can only be accessed by researchers who have the assigned code on the records of performers at the Research Agency, and only by the written consent of the patient, after his death the consent of the legal heir, unless the patient and his heirs object. If these two conditions are not met, the archival commission shall decide on access to this material in accordance with the archival law procedure. Before that, the archival commission must obtain the written consent of the Commission responsible for medical matters. The law also provides that archival material should be used only on purpose. The amendment has also adopted provisions containing controls and fines for offences committed, allowing effective control and punishment in cases of non-delivery of archival material to the competent archive in the event of unauthorised access to archive material and so on. In view of all the above, Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u215	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u216	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have long recalled that archives should be fully opened. We are also bound by the European Parliament's resolution on European consciousness and totalitarianism, which clearly states that all archives, including archives of secret political services, must be opened to the public, so that we can come to an accurate knowledge of history without creating. More than 80% of the SDV's archival material was destroyed, so that the nation's identity and cultural heritage were severely affected. The Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia has rejected all allegations of crimes in connection with the destruction of archival material, despite clear evidence that the last Chief of SDV has given instructions, respected that all archival material must be destroyed. Instead of opening up at least that little archive material that was left entirely for researchers, journalists and others interested, the adoption of the Archive Material Act was done the exact opposite way. Due to the anonymisation process, access to archival material is technically closed. Today, this law makes it extremely difficult to obtain material, as confirmed by the users of the archives, or it is completely black and as such completely useless for researchers. Therefore, the debate on archival material should certainly be extended with the question of why we do not regulate this area in any way or as the Czech Republic has done. And above all, dearly respected, why does the Government even prevent the archives stored in Serbian archives from being handed over to the Republic of Slovenia? It is the priceless national wealth and the most important historical source on the functioning of the country. This is an extremely important issue, which requires the President of the Government to move as soon as possible and to act in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and to do everything to ensure that Slovenia obtains all archives of the former SFRJ that relate to the country. As regards today's Draft Law on Archive Materials, which contains personal data on the treatment of the patient, this is, of course, followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court and, in this regard, the archiving regime under the Law on the Protection of Documented and Archived Material and Archives cannot also apply to specific material such as medical documentation. In doing so, it is very important for us that this is a matter of actual regulation of the area and not of possible new abuse, which would further prevent access to material. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we always point out that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. Last but not least, because of the lack of respect for the decision, we interviewed the Minister of Education. While the coalition supported this violation of the Constitution, we felt in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it could no longer perform this function. However, we will follow the Constitutional Court's decision here, so we do not intend to oppose the proposed law in the SDS. Once again, we have an important task ahead of us, and it will be clear, above all, whether we respect the Constitution in this part as well, how we will compete for that part of the Slovenian national heritage that is located in the archives of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u217	The text is given by the Desus Group, Mrs Maria Antonija Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! The proposal for a law on archival material containing personal data on the treatment of the patient was proposed in the coalition on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014. At that time, the Constitutional Judges, at the initiative of the Ombudsman, found that the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives was inconsistent with the Constitution. Unconstitutionality occurred in the work which provides that public archival material also includes the material of healthcare providers, which often contains sensitive personal data. That is why the Constitutional Court of the National Assembly ordered the said unconstitutionality to be abolished within one year. On the basis of the above-mentioned decision and the instructions given at the time by the Constitutional Court, we are proposing a law stipulating that only a patient and his heir are allowed to have access to that archive material and that researchers can only look into the material by consent of the patient, heirs or by permission of the archival commission. Healthcare providers operating within the health service network must dispose of the material to the competent archive no later than 150 years after its creation, i.e. after the production of the last document of the individual file, before it can be kept in their possession. There was almost no substantive debate on the proposal for a law at the hearing itself at the working body, even though it was an extremely important content. The content of the medical documentation is something that should not be made publicly available even after the death of the patient. Health data, especially when it comes to data on mental health, may be misused, which may constitute a major interference with individual personality rights and dignity. In our Group of Members, we estimate that the public interest, which is not even the most clear, cannot and must not prevail over the interests of the individual entering the treatment process. Such a person expects that his intimate information will remain confidential and will only be used for the purposes of treatment. According to our assessment, we should also take into account the right to a deceased peteti and the potential material and social impact of family members who could be affected by the disclosure of data on certain diseases, diagnosis or medical interventions in the search for employment in relation to their partners and others. We also agree with the opinion of the Constitutional Audit Incentive at the point where it believes that free access to health data would also cause long-term harm to trust between the patient and the doctor. For these reasons, in the Desus Group we have joined the co-signature of the bill and we will support it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u219	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Respected and respected! In 2012, the Ombudsman filed a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, as the law does not specifically regulate the extradition and regime of materials from psychiatric institutions containing data on psychiatric treatment. This is a highly sensitive material that cannot, as such, be subject to the same accessibility conditions as the entire area of documentary and archival material. Thus, the Constitutional Court held that in 2014 it was the duty of the State and society to enable an individual to maintain dignity during and after treatment, both during and after life and at the time of death. It therefore ordered the legislator to draw up, within one year, amendments to take account of the specificity of such material as health documentation. In his 2014 work reports and 2015 reports, he also called on the Ombudsman to make the necessary legal changes. After a good year and a half, when the deadline for the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision has expired, we have a proposal on the table that does not comply with constitutional regulation to end. The proposal for a law on archival material containing personal data on the treatment of patients is subject to special regulation in a special way. As a matter of law, it is necessary to recognize the efforts made by fellow Member Dragan Matić in preparing the text and in coordinating it with the colleagues. Many amendments were adopted on the home working body, thus ensuring the normative or nomotechnical consistency of the text. As requested by the Constitutional Court, the material containing personal information on the treatment of the patient will be practically inaccessible to the public. Exceptions are only registered operators of research and development activities which will have to obtain the written consent of the patient concerned or of legal heirs, unless explicitly prohibited by the patient. However, when it comes to databases from which the identity of the individual patient cannot be understood and the material already taken into the archives, and where the patient is deceased and has not left the written consent and the explicit prohibition do not, nor do its heirs oppose, then the archival commission shall decide on access to this material in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the archival law. In doing so, it must also obtain the written consent of the Commission responsible for medical matters, and in those cases they will also have to weigh the public interest of the progress of science and the interest of the individual. Respected and respected! In the view of the Constitutional Court, it is not essential how many years the material is inaccessible. Its fundamental question is how society as a whole treats health data and whether it reflects the duty of the society to maintain and respect human dignity. We can also understand this as a warning from the Constitutional Court about the inadequacy shown so far with regard to the handling of such data. Therefore, adequate protection at legal level is particularly important. Voyeristic impulses simply cannot prevail over the interests of individuals. This, however, will have to be taught as a society that is exposed to divisiveness on online and other networks. In the Social Democrats Group, we will, as co-signers, support the proposal for an archival material law containing personal information on the patient's treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u221	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you very much, distinguished Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law concerns the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 21 March 2014. The main message of this Decision was that the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives is inconsistent with the Constitution, if the public archive also includes me with the material of healthcare providers which are defined under this Act as public legal persons containing personal data on the treatment of patients. The Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to abolish the constitutionality established within one year of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. So it's a fat delay, but it's better late than never. In the proposal for a law, the archival material produced by healthcare providers containing personal information on the treatment of patients shall be classified as unavailable. The material shall exceptionally be accessible to the persons concerned or to their legal heirs who show legal interest, provided that the patient has not prohibited access to its basic medical documentation. The period within which healthcare providers within the public health service network are required to deliver the material to the competent archive shall be extended from the current 30 years to 150 years, but may also be extended earlier if the material is no longer in use or if they assess that it is no longer needed. Members of New Slovenia believe that the draft law implements the Constitutional Court's decision, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u223	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on civil society. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nejc Bezovar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u224	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Ministry of Public Administration has prepared a draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on municipal registrarship, so-called ZORED. This is the first amendment to the law since its entry into force in 2007. Since the adoption of ZORED, a decade has passed. At that time, however, certain system rules have been amended, which also affect the functioning of municipal registries. The former police law was inherited by the law on the duties and powers of the police and the law on the organisation and work of the police, and a new law on police powers was adopted. The ZORED should therefore also be aligned with the law on local self-government, the law on public servants, the law on offences and the law on the protection of personal data. At the same time, municipal authorities have developed so much that the law in force is already restricting the effective implementation of the editorial service, and the applicant has therefore prepared a new regulation only in those articles which will allow for more effective implementation of the regulation. Among other things, the types of powers do not change and the conditions for the use of the physical force and the gas dispenser change. The current ZORED shall lay down the conditions under which the municipal editor may retain the person, but shall not contain provisions which would enable the municipal editor to exercise that authority in cases where the person fails to comply with his or her oral order or order and tries to leave. In addition, in the current ZORED, the provisions for which they have been assessed to be partially ineffective and which will determine the amendment will constitute an effective organisation and performance of the tasks of the municipal registrar. If I briefly present the specific changes to the law. The amendment to Article 5 shall align ZORED with the provisions of the Law on Public Servants governing the manner in which the Head of the Inter-Ministerial Board is appointed and the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government governing the establishment of common municipal administrations. With regard to the powers of the municipal editor, Article 10 of the ZORED shall be added, which shall be in a manner consistent with the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. The types of powers vested in the municipal editor shall not be changed. The proposed amendments are consistent with the unification of the designation of the same powers as the municipal editor and the police, and consequently constitute a clearer application of the provisions of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. Subjectively, the amendment to Article 12 of the ZORED amends the way in which the identity, formerly identity, is determined. Thus, the municipal editor may carry out identification, but not in the same way as a policeman who has the right to look at the data from the relevant records and other databases. Article 13 governing the detention of persons and Article 14 determining the use of coercive means are also amended. The municipal director will be allowed to use the physical force and the gas dispenser in cases where the person does not comply with his or her oral order or order and will try to leave. In the use of coercive funds, the municipal editor is committed to respect the principle of proportionality at all times and will always use the most appropriate means of enforcement. It's been recast 16. Articles 17 and 18 governing the supervision of the use of the powers of the municipal editor. Article 17, in particular, was unclear in some parts; the ZORED novel is systematically and more transparently starting than it has so far set out three forms of control. First, mandatory reporting of municipal directors in the case referred to in Article 16 and supervision of the Head of the municipal registrar in the cases referred to in Article 17, paragraph 1. Secondly, the Commission shall, in the cases referred to in the second paragraph of Article 17. Thirdly, the decision on complaints addressed by the mayor as chairman of the administration and thus by the municipal authorities for possible infringement of the rights and freedoms set out in Article ZORED of the Convention. Article 20, which lays down the conditions for the performance of the duties of the authorised persons of the municipal registrar: the authorised official of the municipal registrar must comply with the conditions laid down in the Offences Act for the conduct of infringement proceedings and decision-making. 28.a. Article which provides for the maintenance of records on the use of coercive funds means the harmonisation of ZORED with the Personal Data Protection Act. It is specified exactly which data are kept in the record and how long. However, after assessing the financial implications of the State budget and the municipal budgets, we note that the adoption of the ZORED Amendments and Supplements Act has no financial implications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u225	We are moving on to shifting the positions of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you very much. As far as this law is concerned, I must say that we are also within the parliamentary group with a few different views, but we will not oppose the law, I can say that in essence. As far as the rest is concerned, you have to say so. In the media, we have heard a great deal about the subject of a terrible police state because of this law. This is where they walk in front of the house, bringing petitions and so on and so forth. I started doing this myself in 1998. At that time, we prepared the first regulations in this area, and something must be said. The biggest opposition was within the uniformed police force. At that time, the uniformed police saw competition, saw what was going on in this area, and were dominated by positions where municipal officials could share or wave a little or something. That would be all we could do. Global trends or modern trends in Europe are much different than in Slovenia. In Slovenia we still have some terrible reservations that police powers can exercise only and exclusively police officers. This, of course, is a remnant of the old system and nothing else. The situation in the world goes a lot differently than we do, like I said. Police powers may be exercised by those with adequate knowledge and legal conditions. And that's it. A good 20 years ago, there were 64 such institutions in the United States of America exercising police powers. If you're going to Trieste today, I was already there as Director of the Police Administration in Cyprus, I don't know, in 1992, and I didn't find myself at the time and I asked these people who I have to call when I say I have a car accident here in Trieste. But they said it doesn't matter who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who? And the financiers. Everyone saves you from the carambolo. See, modern trends are moving towards the state police, which our Slovenian police are, performing the most demanding tasks that local police cannot perform. Do we understand each other? This means that this country should once again, including the ministry, take another step forward and crush those resistances in the uniformed police you have, and say very clearly that we have city police in Slovenia. Yeah, why not? It is true that this will be difficult for me in Šmar or Šentjur, or in these smaller places where these links are now prescribed, inter-ethnic governments, but in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, Koper, Kranju, I do not know where else, but we can probably have very decent Western European comparable local police. And as far as I'm concerned, I have to make it very clear that we should probably go in and expand our powers. That's the first option. And the spread of warrants. And reducing this same amount of duties for the state police, of course, subject to compliance with all standards, both educational, procedural, criminal and other, which must be ensured. Of course, there can't be a local police officer or a clerk, now our way, anyone who comes by who comes by, we'll send him to Tacen in two months or what I know where. But in parallel with expanding powers and tasks, we must probably require more of them. Standards for the recruitment of these jobs need to be raised and brought closer to the police. It's the only logic, and here may be the only direction, but somehow 20 years ago or less under 20 years ago there were such resistances, I believe there are such resistances today, but the direction is certainly such. As far as the law is concerned, I must say that I will have a few questions further, particularly, such as complaints. Resolving complaints seems to me to suggest that it should be brought to the level that it is in the police force. Now we still have a system in the law, and the proposed system is one where crows don't turn off their eyes. It is within the registrar and the congregation or between the congregations that they decide on citizens’ complaints and so on. Here I think it would suggest making a simple story, bringing the matter to the police and the end. In the police, independent experts resolve such complaints about the work of the police. And no one from the police is involved in solving a complaint against a police officer. This is a standard that has been achieved over the last ten years in Slovenia and I think we should also go to the municipal officials about this direction. As far as we're concerned, we won't oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u227	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u228	Honorable President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Today we are considering a proposal for a law that has raised quite a few dusts in public. This time, too, there was a fear that the municipal authorities were getting closer to the structure and working methods of the city police than they knew in some countries. At this point, I must point out that the bill amends only the essential provisions for which it has been assessed that they are partially ineffective and will provide for a more effective organisation and performance of the tasks of the municipal authorities. The fact is that, in more than nine years since the adoption of the law, the rules affecting the implementation of the Law on Civil Society have substantially changed. Today, we are in a situation where, on the one hand, the work of the editors is increasing and, on the other hand, their powers are increasing. But here again, additional powers have been given to officials in the past, through the Road Traffic Act and the Roads Act, while the Law on Municipal Government has not changed since 2006. It is precisely for this reason that gaps and systemic errors should be addressed, in particular, with regard to the use of powers, so that managers can carry out tasks for which, as I have already said, they have powers. That Slovenia is at the top of a safe country is also a merit for municipal registrarship. In modern times, most congregations have established a congregation service that oversees the implementation of municipal decrees and the provisions of certain laws. In the Desus Group, we would like to view the editors as persons who are primarily willing to help, to give information when we need it, and not just to give fines. In practice, it has already been shown that local communities, as well as citizens, have accepted the greater role of municipalities in road safety and in ensuring order and peace. Of course, it is understandable that when dealing with such and similar laws, there is always a fear of overuse or abuse of coercive means. But statistics show that these numbers are negligible, while physical attacks on the guards were much higher. In the Desus Group, we expect the editors to acquire primarily sufficient knowledge and to carry out their tasks moderately, professionally, and above all legally. We also expect that the law will establish, in particular, effective control over the use of coercive means. On the basis of this, we will support the proposal for a law on municipal registrarship in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u229	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! After an intensive debate day, we have yet to see a new Law on municipal registrarship, which has also raised a lot of criticism in public about the granting of certain powers to municipal officials. However, calls are also being made for the marriage to be rejected. However, in the introduction, I would like to point out that this law has not changed for 10 years. This is a first novel and it is certainly necessary to review the implementation of the law and to eliminate the anomaly found. Marriage also needs to be brought into line with laws that have changed several times in ten years. Some laws are not even in force anymore, such as the Police Act, which was followed by the Law on Police Tasks and Powers and the Law on Organising and Working in the Police. The Act on Civil Servants, the Law on Offences and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data should also be harmonised. The applicant also assesses that it is less difficult to amend the law, that the law in force is obsolete in certain parts, and therefore the new articles are part of coordination with the new rules. News in this law is about the establishment of commissions for the supervision of the use of coercive funds, the mandatory register of the use of coercive funds and the provisions on the status of heads of municipal registries. These are certainly reasons for reaching out to the marriage and for modernizing the marriage. But first, we would like to refresh ourselves about what municipal government is. Pursuant to the municipal security programme, he is responsible for public safety and public order in the municipality. The municipal authorities are competent to control safe and unhindered road traffic in settlements, to protect roads and the environment in settlements and on municipal roads outside the settlements, to ensure safety on municipal public roads, recreational and other public areas, to protect public property, natural and cultural heritage, to maintain public order and peace. However, he also has powers in this work and tasks. These are: alert, oral order, identification, security review of the person, seizure of the objects, detention of the perpetrator of the offence and of the offence, use of physical force, means of restraint and binding and gas dispenser. How do citizens feel about their work and their responsibilities? Are there just incassants in finding the wrong parking? They do, but they do not have the appropriate powers or powers outside the settlement, but they do not have jurisdiction over the state road, private land, or anything else that might happen. The issues are also related to additional powers, in a way that we give guns, while outside the village they have no authority to write parking tickets. And because of this, many feel that we do not need them. These are questions to be answered and to try to convince citizens that this is not the case. And not only the citizens, but also us Members and Members of Parliament. On the one hand, the law can be assessed as suitable for further consideration, but we believe that it will have to be further finalized with the relevant amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Municipal officials are officially not municipal police officers. It wasn't originally meant to be. At least not officially. Why, then, does the government by law, whose purpose is to make minor legislative adjustments to the law with certain other laws, interfere with the concept of municipal registrarship itself? Why does the government want to turn municipal officials into municipal police officers under the pretext of minor changes? The answer to this question is in itself, and we need to look at the laws that have been proposed by the Government in recent times by the municipal government. The Law on the tasks and powers of the police, the Law on the Control of the State Border and the New Law on Foreigners, which has not yet been introduced, but the Minister of the Interior is working hard to ensure that he is as fast as possible in the procedure and confirmed. What does that mean? Increase the repression and control of citizens. In the United Left, we strongly oppose this. We do not want Slovenia to become a police state. It is tragic that an increase of repression, which is even constitutionally controversial in some places, is proposed by the Government, is proposed by the SMC party, who promised the rule of law and the protection of human rights before the elections. Instead of strengthening the rule of law and creating a fairer society, we get to strengthen the country's repressive apparatus by using some well-known Altizer. What does this mean, in particular, in the case of municipal editors? Under the current regime, the controller may use a physical force and a gas dispenser in the event of self-defence only in the case of self-defence. After a new one, he will be able to use the physical force to carry out his tasks, for example if he wants to keep the person and will assess that the physical force is the only one with which he will succeed. In other words, congregation officials will also be able to exercise their powers by means of physical force. And if they do, with a gas dispenser. The sprayer will be able to use the sprayer after a new application if the conditions for the use of the body force are met and the use will be left to its discretion whether it can achieve the same by minor means or not. Such changes are unacceptable. We are essentially turning our editors into local police officers without having the necessary education and training to carry them out. Nor does the law provide for proper supervision of their work. The way in which possible abuses are controlled, the identification of responsibility for overstepping powers and the protection mechanisms against such abuses are completely incompatible with the police. Such a law is a recipe for transforming municipal government into some kind of under-supervised local sheriffship. If we really want to turn a red tape into a local police force, we should do so by organising ourselves in the same way as the police, with the same requirements as for police and police officers, and with the same way of controlling abuses with the same or very similar education and training. Before that, we should do some thorough thinking and research and ask ourselves whether we really need this in Slovenia. It is not that the Government proposes a law that is essentially unique to the European criterion. For everyone who has read the comparative review of the arrangements prepared by the Government itself, it is more than clear that the law is being followed mainly by countries where they have local police, for example France and Italy. What the government is doing is that some of the repressive elements of these arrangements are systematically transferred into our regime, and this is referred to as minor corrections. What the Ministry is proposing is harmful. It is an intervention in human rights through the use of repressive means and, in essence, the proposal with such a miserable explanation is unrealistic and must not be accepted. In the United Left, we are aware that you are a repressive body, whether it be a director or a police officer, often or at least sometimes they want more authority. The competent ministry, the Government and the National Assembly are the ones that determine the powers of these authorities on the basis of the assessment that individual authorities need. Here neither the ministry nor the government have performed their tasks, so no such change must be made by the National Assembly and we will therefore contribute our votes to this decisive no in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u234	Dear Members and Members, good evening! Let us decide whether we want to have local police or municipal authorities. The law that is before us today, and individuals who will be congregation officials, works as some kind of person who is not a dick or a mouse. So people who are supposed to have powers that are very close to police powers but do not have that status. And such a situation can lead to very unusual circumstances. If I could just describe one very plastic thing. Under law, directors can give oral orders or orders to people. On the other hand, we don't even give these guys blue lights, but they will continue to ride with orange lights. Someone had a little bit of a laugh and said it was more than a job on the road than a serious duty. We are therefore in the position in Novi Slovenije that before such a change was made to the law, it should be clear whether municipalities need local police. If this is what they need, then we are taking the whole matter this way, which means that local police should also have the same training as Slovenian police today, the same education system, the same powers and the same responsibilities. The system, where we introduce red tape and at the same time things in the law are written in a way that can be understood in a very two-way way or interpreted differently, and in the future they will be able to cause significant problems. With the proposal of today’s amendment to the Law on the Municipal Order, the Government is thus leaving a closed door for abuses of powers that are significantly increasing with these changes. Once again, even if Slovenia and Parliament had decided to adopt a law allowing local police to do so, they would not be anything special because local police also have other European countries. Thus, we still insist on something special. In Novi Slovenija we are therefore convinced that only a thin section will remain between the powers and tasks of municipal editors and police officers, which will now be much easier to overcome. It is true, as the Minister of Public Administration says, that Slovenia does not become a police state, as police officers still have significantly greater powers, but according to the law in force, the municipal director of physical force and the gas dispenser could only use it if he refused direct attack on it. Only in the case of self-defense, then. According to a government proposal, he will be able to do so if the person fails to comply with his or her oral order or order and tries to leave. How, then, will the editor assess the current situation from which he will understand that the person intends to leave, and how quickly can he decide to respect the principle of proportionality and to use the kindest coercive means to which the law binds him? In theory and on paper, the tasks and requirements of the editors are very well written, but in practice these provisions will be extremely difficult to implement and will require continuous hypnotic decision-making from the editors, which can also lead to many mistakes. Even when determining identity, by new identity, a redactor can appropriately stop a person. In Slovenia we are usually used to stopping you with blue lights. If I had been followed by an orderly with orange lights and turned on these lights, I'd understand that there's some kind of danger on the road, not that this guard is trying to stop me. Therefore, a person may at first not understand or understand this stopping. And if you read the law literally, the congregation editor will use physical force against this person who will not follow his instructions, which is not permitted by the law in force today. Once again, I want to be very plastic. If we had a local police force, it would mean that a local police officer would come after you, turn on the blue lights, stop you, identify you, and perform all sorts of procedures. In the case of the municipal government, what will it be? The warden came after you with the orange lights. And at least I personally can't imagine what that means. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the proposal for a new law does not contain sufficient safeguards to completely prevent overstepping of powers, including the obligation to report to the editor that he has used or detained a person, nor does the special independent commission to be appointed in the event of bodily injury or death. In view of the fact that the law in force also provides for the detention of the perpetrator of the offence and the criminal offence, which he cannot do if he leaves the place of the service of the offence or of the offence, the question is whether the principle of proportionality will be respected if he also applies the force of the flesh for that purpose. Since detention may last for up to one hour until the arrival of police officers or officials of another criminal authority, it may occur at that time that the municipal director will not use the least funds to achieve the objective. The fact is that coercive measures are primarily intended to exercise the powers of police officers and not of municipal officials. This particular example also shows that the Government obviously mixes pears and apples and that such a way should not be handled. Since today's proposal does not change a number of editors' powers, and the conditions for the use of physical force, the means of fastening and tying and the gas dispenser, i.e. all means of enforcement, are changing, we Christian Democrats are all the more confident that these changes will not have the desired effects. And I'm going back to the beginning again. It is necessary to decide if the situation in the country so requires, if the situation in the municipalities so requires. Then let's be direct, honest and honest and say we need to set up a local police force. Many will be appalled, many will be dissatisfied, many will complain that local sheriffs, as is popularly called mayors, will get their own police or their own repressive authority, but if these powers are regulated in a manner that is regulated by the police today, then the potential for abuse will also be much smaller and the potential for the mayors' influence will be very limited. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that, of course, there are reasons in the country and in the municipalities for the deterioration of the security situation, but not in the way proposed by the Government, so this law cannot count on our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer will move forward with the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u236	That's a nice hello third time! As a matter of fact, the Law on Municipal Government had in fact settled for the first time since it first appeared in the period 2006-2007, for the first time a single issue had been settled, which had previously been regulated by the sectoral laws where certain powers had been delegated and the municipal decrees governing the red tape service. What does that actually say? That not really from 2006 and 2008, but we can come back about 150 years ago, when we actually had guards, guards and the like in large cities, who had only one basic function, that is to say that they were establishing some kind of public order and peace. With the development, with the change of regime, there has also been a war, and these editorial services, if they are able to do so today, change their form, content and, in some way, their work. The indisputable fact is that, and rarely will you hear about this speaker, in 2006 and 2007 the then Minister of the Interior, through a bill of law, has in fact made this issue of the functioning of the editorial service in a very high-quality way across the country. I can hear even today, Mr Gorenak has also cooperated, which is very fine and great and therefore appropriate today's legislation or proposals for amendments in some way address issues that have indeed been lacking. They lacked the power to do so, but they did not have the basis for being able to carry them out in the first place or in the same way as the law did. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal with these changes, which are necessary and necessary, and I believe that we will take an even faster step towards a final version of what the local communities will actually have. However, I will take part in the debate and also give my views on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr. Marko Ferluga has the word to prepare for Dr. Franz Duck and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. As Jani said, it is clear and loud that this legislation has not changed for many years. There is certainly one great praise to the government of Janez Janša and to the minister who has done this legislation, I am talking about the municipal director, that there will be no mistake. When we talk about this increase in police repressive methods and all that, there is already such a big fama that we will become a fast police state. I don't think that's the way it is, and we've got a lot of leverage to defend ourselves from. Similar dilemmas as I was aware of were already there. Even then, there was some debate about it, but as everywhere and as always, it is repeated with us again. It's one of those again, I'll say, concern and fear, but I still think it's an exaggeration. Obviously, we have instilled in Slovenia one such negative gene, a gene of some kind of mistrust, and perhaps it is also some immatureness and lack of confidence in the very organs of persecution, probably from the past. To exclude or reduce abuses by means of this law, we certainly will not. We can all be the only ones. But I think it's something else. Today, circumstances have changed significantly. If we want to admit or refuse to admit it, for such or other reasons, all citizens are extremely impatient about everything and everyone. And one of the victims is the municipal officials, because, you know, the parking ticket, the handcuffs—it immediately rises pressure and it can go into some extremes. This work is trying to give municipal officials a tool that will be strictly controlled, and there is another guardian to oversee all of this, according to the Ministry of the Interior. You know, however, that the best and the greatest control is the control of citizens, who, for every matter that is not going to be right and which is not by the rules, will certainly trigger a number of their concerns in the media. I agree with the predecessors who are talking about the importance of debate on education as regards training. The use of coercive measures may be controversial if they are not properly educated or trained. But if I have the correct information, I have written that the professional training of the municipal editors, the fulfilment and testing of the knowledge for the editors is being carried out at the GPU Police Academy in Tacno. So that's it. However, it is still a matter of debate, and perhaps as one such interesting thing, at least what I understand from the MNZ reports, which was carried out in 2013, when 136 municipalities were surveyed, and the percentage or extent of the use of coercive funds by municipal officials was less than 13%. So that fear is true, we cannot avoid it, but I think that we must have some confidence in the congregation officials, that they themselves will be held accountable and punished and ultimately persecuted if they abuse what we are now trying to enable them to do. And let's not forget that you're all gathered here, and all citizens and citizens can buy a gas dispenser and use it and we don't have it, you won't believe any rules. If we start to complicate all these things and look at some sort of orwelling trend, then we probably won't get far. I think it is necessary to give some trust, to clearly control it and then to act accordingly. I think certain matters are going this way, and it is worth supporting this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, get ready to mag. Matthew Tonin and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, President, I hope that more towards the end of my deliberations today. Now I am listening to this matter, of course I come from a slightly different profession than Mr Gorenak. I also did not work as a colleague of Ferlug in the police force, which I believe would not be used by a disperser over me unless it was absolutely necessary. But I come from some other professions, and now we're talking about why we get these guys on our liver a lot. You've all mentioned some parking and cars up and down. We've got a problem, my favorite topic with public passenger traffic. [[…]] We have a problem with deautomobilization. We have a problem with the fact that it would be good for Slovenians to finally stop being so crazy about cars. If I looked at this macro-economically, how many pennies we put in the car, if we had half a bad car, and a better traffic police, and even locally, if you wanted to, and that would give us our knowledge, we'd have arranged some roofing investment law, then we'd be closer than all seals, little Swiss. I don't want to be a little Swiss for blood money. Now some story, Mr. Gorenak, this is his expertise, whatever anyone personally thinks of him, has given a good example of the United States. They have more than 20 such agencies, but at the same time they have the most prisoners in privatised prisons. And every time they see a city of rebellion, and so on. Well, fortunately, we don't yet live in such an aggressive society. Jani said, from his experience in the executive branch, that this story has not been the case since yesterday, that it has been a red tape, that it has somehow been settled in 2007 and this law has to be regulated because of the law on civil servants, the law on offences. Today I am pleased, frankly, even though I will be appalled that in many cases we are compatible with New Slovenia, even though we are so ideologically broken up. I hope Tonin won't say now that it's for the privatisation of prisons, but some quality infrastructure we all really want. And it can be seen that as a layman for this area, we talked to the editors. Editors don't just do that because it's essentially the inability of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the inability of the Ministry of Infrastructure and also for the public administration to be stigmatised in this way. And through some of these half-solutions, as shown in the bill, we kind of want to introduce some local police in half, although it would probably have to be named more correctly urban and on the one hand urbanly in the city congregation and on the other hand inter-ethnicly. We get some cream, I don't think it's going to increase safety. We have had some tragic stories in the composition of the uniformed police in recent years, and I am a little afraid that in some aggressive society, editors will now become targets. Sometimes they are. If someone goes crazy about the handcuffs on, I don't know what kind of MP we had in some of the previous references that he wanted to fight in the garage. I have so many memories. Then I'd protect the life of this director, and I'd rather have him back off. The English Metropolitan Police gave GoPro, what Mr. Gorenak knows, and when they are on the ground and in certain risk areas, a number of “breasts” of local losers have been reduced in front of the Metropolitan Police. And I'd rather be for this than for a sprinkler. But well, then Mrs. Vrančnik would tell me that the dispenser is cheaper than a GoPro camera and a memory card, and that. I'm not talking about it, but based on some of the tests I've been reading. But if we want to go to some Austrian example of these local editors, if we call them that, in fact, they don't kind of double the police, but, I don't know, they're going to politely ask you as a kid if you're going to take a bath in some grammar room and then give your parents some kind of punishment. Or if you make too much noise. I'm not talking again. I live near Austria. And this is where it's gonna have to be made up. But I'm afraid that somehow we're not thinking, Marko was talking about some kind of aggression. Where does this aggression come from? The aggression comes from the system's violence. We need to think about how we will reshape the system so that people will eventually be less aggressive. And these are some of the key things. Why is parking a problem? Because we could walk a little more on foot and use public traffic. Why are people aggressive? Because they don't feel safe anymore because of some hectic. You know, the subroutine for safety is in the so-called small vertebral brain. Here are some things to deal with. This solution somehow has, in the spirit of Mrs Minister and the team that has come to taste, a few ministries that currently have quite a problem with themselves, and now some recent events from the history of the Soviet Union will be more, and then somehow in this spirit push this red tape into some kind of unfortunate marriage solution that I fear will be dangerous and for the editors and for us, that somehow we are going in this direction of possible greater repression, which, of course, neither personally nor in the United Left nor more sober-minded citizens and citizens do not want. But it's true that then, like any topic in our country, this kind of media stuffs and shakes. Perhaps it would also be wise to ask about the education of the uniformed police: whether such a more exchangeable form or something, rather serious, more thorough. And then there'd be some serious debate here, some probably defending the more repressive local police, some less, some would come out of the image of the bobbies, others would come out of the American story, where you know you have to put your hands on the wheel, be at peace, and sometimes even if an atheist prays that you don't get hurt. It's not a funny topic, because you're looking at these things a little bit. But I actually think, decades ago, I was traveling across the country of Canada and there you had some kind of traffic sign Wach out rural crime, and you're walking so little, and then I asked the locals, and they said there was a 20-year-old protecting someone. Do we really want to sensitize ourselves that we are a more dangerous society than we really are? Do we really want to push the guards into such a strangely unexplained role? Do we really want to go to a more repressive society after a while? If we listen to the pulse of society, most societies don't do that. And we politicians must also be responsible for not raising this population. It's easy to fool people. After all, I also spoke to Fidesz in Hungary. And that's essentially our responsibility. This law, as stated by colleagues in New Slovenia, is awkwardly prepared. It doesn't include any systemic solutions. It allows for some inexplicability if you want someone not sufficiently controlled repressive. Mr Gorenak also said that, unlike the police, there is no system to identify any possible violations. For this proposal we can say to the government: sit down, flower, public debate, repeat the exercise, not that we will do this story in a way that is, somehow push forward, because it has to be done in fact. Now I remember, everyone in Maribor is asking me why we have such and such decrees on the use of firecrackers, and the firecrackers are already crying at the end of November. We also need to ask ourselves about the legislation we adopt, how it is implemented in practice. I don't want to talk again about opening up municipal budgets about how these editors are going to be financed. Probably, I don't know if I know in part, like the ladies at the Post Office of Slovenia, who have to sell so many and so many things on a day, but it looks like it's not like a post office. These are some real problems that we should seriously open up and deal with. But not by getting some half-determination and now we are ugly from the opposition because we are seriously pointing out a whole range of these problems. That's why we can't break a law like this. In fact, this is quite similar to the first point of today’s session, where we got back in some very serious area in the essence of the trampest law. Investments and directors are much more connected than you might now imagine on the first ball, but I don't have time to teach you this now, but a little bit of me, frankly, can't even teach you this anymore today. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u242	Mr Gorenak, former Minister of the Interior, warned me that I may not have been very clear. I am not in favour of having a duty at the same time as the local police, I am in favour of or Nova Slovenija is in favour of transforming the registrar into a local police force, which means that these local police officers should have the same training as the current police officers and also the same standards. If I say so. If the current directors are paid from public funds, then it would be right for the country to serve in full. The current powers and the current arrangements are about as much as if they had a football game and a football team and would tell certain players that they can kick the ball only five meters. They can't take it more than five meters. Whoever controls this, how the game runs, will be extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Well, buddy Duck is still here. The problem is very simple. City police or municipal police will not have as long as this law is home to the Ministry responsible for local self-government. Because it is logical that they will not think in the direction of the development of the municipal police, but they will think about officials of a communal nature. That's a fact. That's why there has to be a broad consensus. That's why I, myself, have to say, since I've been in charge of the red tape for a long time, I was at first the most unhappy and I still don't understand what the editors are doing in small congregations where there are two or three, I don't even know what they're doing there, because it's without a connection that they're even there. And the first step we took was that we hired 30 editors first. First I had to have people to do anything. When we came to the congregation, there were eight editors. I'm asking you very nicely, in the capital of 8 editors, to regulate traffic! That's not going anywhere! Even if it's just the parking tickets, you can't get through. That's why we started to think about it because I don't know if you remember, but those who are older in Ljubljana were only in the former South in the summers of July and August such with white peeled helmets and pretty dresses and actually worked through student service were channeling traffic. These were basically cute young people who were directing traffic or helping and everything was fine. Then later, those of you who remember, in Ljubljana, we saw the editors who were wearing a nice greenish-white uniform and it was still kind of acceptable. Then we get this horrible, horrible color that reminds us of the Argentine junta and nothing Slovenian is in there anymore. I'm sorry. Psychology comes out when you look at these guys, it doesn't mean anything to you, and it has a bad relationship with these boys. But if he finds out it's the ones who write him the notes, yeah, then you don't have any relationship with them at all. And if you know they can't hurt you, yeah, what will you do with them? Nothing. Therefore, the purpose and purpose of this editorial service will never be achieved in that vision that was written, carefully, in 2006 and 2007. At the time, though, it was thought that at one time, sometimes, and so forth. But there will be a change. But that's what we need time for. But I fully agree with my colleague Gorenak on the heart and here, until the police are in favour, that will never happen. And the police are jealous of all these principles or powers, and this vision and the idea that it's just their primate. At the same time, the same police are aware that they no longer control all of these things, which are actually done by the editors on the other hand. Now there's only one thing to pay attention to. One security guard who keeps one vault or transports money may have a gun. There's only one liner who can have spray. While everyone else can buy it for free and God forbid we give him anything because we're about to become repressive. That's why I said, be careful, he already had the authority to hold someone, but for God's sake, how, on what basis? He didn't have the tools to hold you back, and we're doing a little bit of repair with this law today. But that's a long way from what we really want to have. Do you know what the problem is? There's a problem in your head, too. The mayors will get their own police. Let's break it! A quiet moment when this would be organised in accordance with some principles would create exactly the same mechanisms as today and the relationship between the Minister of the Interior and the police. It's not just the Minister, it's not a socialist story or some Cuban country when you pick up the phone, but you say, "Now go there and do it." That's not how it works. The one who believes this is watching too many movies. For this reason, it seems to me that today's debate can be at least as good as possible to make every effort to get this serious transformation as soon as possible. Besides, there's one more thing to know. I personally also see the aspect of the human resources problem. Today the police have this problem, that's not enough cops. If a local police with adequate education, with an appropriate set of skills, with the appropriate powers to take over only that local level of authority they exercise, for no serious crime, there would be no criminal authority, no NPU, none of that, but simply regulating traffic and public order and peace, then, quite generally, then many problems would be solved at national level and, clearly, improve a number of issues. Thus today, officials have an unwarranted reputation in society. You know, there's even one case when a cop attacked a janitor, but in a civilian, of course, in private time, not in a uniform. So far away, you see, it goes with respect or some kind of attitude towards editorial service. She's not here. The vision that this municipal editorial service will develop and strengthen in this direction – I ask you nicely, but you know, half the editors are now employed by former police officers. That's the facts. There's cops in there. Do you know why they went? Because many now have a slightly more favorable time, less stressful because they only deal with certain powers, perhaps at some coefficient for what they do, even better paid. I speak generally. So for this reason, I think this thought, this breakthrough and nothing is the fault of the Ministry responsible for local self-government. They're thinking straight. Are they supposed to be dealing with internal affairs? Once this discussion has taken place, this law will be transposed and this debate will be translated into the framework of the internal ministry, and all the necessary mechanisms will then be highlighted so that we can finally get some local police that will even have a reputation and will manage. And you won't believe it – you would even change their color, which is symbolic of course. At this level, it seems to me that if anything moves in this direction, it is imperative that at least existing editors be able to manage their normal work or all of their obligations that they have received before this law. So there's nothing police can do with these cops. On the contrary. They're very anti-police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the word to prepare themselves for the Mag. Bojana Muršič and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u246	Your Honor! Above all, it is normal for municipal officials to have certain powers to carry out their duties and parts. So I have no problem with this proposal and this law. But I see another problem. We know that municipal government, I'd say, is somehow the transfer of the police to the local level. Basically, it's not a problem for me. They have this arrangement in a number of other countries. But I see the problem of funding, because we know how stepmotherly we treat the congregations financially and, on the other hand, we impose more and more tasks on them without financial support. That's the problem. I would say that with such a trend, such a continuation of the municipality will no longer drive local regional and other developments, but will then be an administrative body that will only be the contractor of certain national tasks. Whether we want it or not, I think we don't even ask ourselves what we want in local self-government. But this is another issue that is not specifically related to this bill, but this is part of the transfer to a local level without financial support. This is an open question and, of course, it will also have to be given certain answers to this question, to give a certain support, because we know that there is also a question in each law whether there is a financial obligation, whether these consequences are fulfilled or not, whether it is linked to the local budget or to the state budget. Answers will also have to be given to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare the mags. Dušan Verbič and Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear fellows, good-bye! Today we are talking about this law on municipal law. I must say that I am pleased in this place that we have a first reading, that the SDS candidate has proposed this first reading, because I think we will be able to open up a few things. I agree that at local level, everything must be done to ensure that human security is protected as much as possible. In recent times, however, it has been observed that residents and residents have been increasingly alerted to vandalism, hardships, fears, crime, as well as in smaller places or in larger places, drug dealers are emerging. In doing so, local communities are very much faced with finding that there are not enough police officers working on prevention to do so on the ground. And many times people find out that cops are there where I'm going to say they almost don't need them. And where are the solutions? The solution, I think, is to ensure that there are certainly more additional police officers, to complement police stations, and to allow many police officers to work in the field to prevent this vandalism and to detect these drug dealers. But unfortunately, since we're short on cops, we've got a law on municipal law enforcement. I'm going to say here that I was expecting a whole new law, not just an update, but we have the law we have, so I'm just going to talk about updating. However, I cannot pass on the fact that new powers are being added to municipal officials by the use of a gas dispenser, which could now only be used if the editor was unable to deter himself or anyone else from attacking, and in the current proposal of the law, we find that he will be able to use it if the person resists detention, to deter the attack or to prevent the self-infliction of the person. Now I can really say in this place, or are we even talking about an update? We must be aware that police officers carry out more demanding tasks than municipal managers in the area of property security and also have powers that interfere with human and fundamental freedoms. Unfortunately, since we do not have, as I mentioned at the outset, the entire bill, I will make only one comment in view of my previous experience with editors, which relates to Article 5(17) of the proposed law, which says: "The Commission is headed by the Director of the Municipal Administration and the Director of the Municipal Administration with the seat of the Inter-Ministerial Board. The Director of the Municipal Administration shall convene the first meeting of the Commission within five days of the appointment at the latest.” Based on my experience, I'll tell you the following, and also after the analysis. The Commission shall be chaired by the Director of the Municipal Administration, where the Board of Directors is established. If so recorded, this task cannot be delegated to any other person. I hope the Ministry's representatives will listen to me because I've had practical information on how to run a commission in Maribor since 2009. They met about 30 times, and at these meetings, the Director was not present at any time. Reasons for absence – overload with another part. Even when I worked alone, I know that the Director's presence was simply not feasible. In order to continue, in Maribor, the Commission has always met on the grounds of Article 17, paragraph 4, of the current law, which states that the Commission may also consider other cases of the use of the authority of the municipal editor in the proceedings of the municipal authorities when it considers that this is necessary. This is said to be the Commission's consideration of a second mandate, such as a warning, an oral order, identification. Therefore, Article 19 concerning complaints is totally unnecessary for me. So the commission will in any case draw up an answer signed by the mayor. However, if paragraph 19 were deleted, complaints about the work of the editors could be dealt with by the Commission. This would be very appropriate to the specificities of the work of public servants, and there are experts on the committee and this would be credible in the case of the mayor. At least this is how those who are members of this committee evaluate. This has proved to be more than appropriate in practice. There are huge complaints about the work of congregation officials. Some complaints or objections are also related to criminal proceedings that their criminal service solves in accordance with laws, according to the Law on Offences, Other Complaints, Work of the Commission, Improperness, Prejudice, Demeanor and Harmful Conduct of Editors. For the tasks entrusted to the Commission, they shall appeal to the Director of Municipal Administrations, in particular the City Administrations, for lack of time and, in particular, because they do not have sufficient expertise. If you will also allow me to tell the difference between municipal officials in larger cities and between municipal officials in smaller towns. Municipal officials in major areas have much work to do, as well as by regulating safety, as well as by regulating road traffic. At the local level, in a smaller local community with which I have faced it myself, things are a little different. And what happens? When there's a problem, the warden finds out that the vehicle's not properly parked and that it's a ticket. What's going on? The village people jump right into the municipal administration, of course the mayor is not at that time, they attack the director of the municipal administration, what we are going to do in this farm place, we flagged and want to serve at their expense. I've been given this one myself, so I can tell you this. This matter was resolved for some time. There have also been some threats from individuals. And what happens when this individual is threatened? You call the police, you're 15 kilometers away, you're hit again that time 10 to 12 minutes, and you're waiting for what's gonna happen to you, whether he pulls the knife or you're gonna put him down with words or something. There is certainly a difference between municipal officials. Since I still have a few minutes left, I would just like to mention another specific. I'll give you one quote from a municipal editor who works as an authorized official who escorts children to school every year, takes care of the traffic order, puts them on the side when he works on the safety belt or on his cell phone, and also when he weighs vehicles. In fact, municipal officials and police officers work hand in hand. What's he saying? "We wear a uniform, it's not green, it's not blue, it's red. The fact is, we are congregation officials and deserve at least a little respect that could be given to us in the congregations, for we are helping to resolve problems. Although people didn’t like us at first, they found that we were indispensable in their lives.” It would also make sense to think about what it would be like to have an unloving situation and be killed by a director. In fact, a policeman gets paid by the state's funeral, buried with all honors. The county editor is also a uniform. I don't know if they've thought about it on the government's side, because I think that if this is the case, we should think about it in this direction. If I'm wrong, I'm asking you from the government to give me an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Dr. Mitja Horvat. Could you please sign in?
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u250	Then you accidentally shut me out. Once again a nice greeting, a respected secretary of state with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague, once again a nice greeting. With this amendment to the law, what has already been mentioned in the presentation and the debate so far, we are touching the institute known by the municipal editors. The fact is, by the operation of the municipal directors and the regulation of their powers, we cannot say in any way that it is a transfer of powers from the police to the authorities. We must be aware that we accept the role of municipal editors with all their specific role in the local community concerned, and we forget that we must consider them or evaluate them as one of the authorities that is also concerned at this level for our safety. Are all such activities related to the local government going in this direction in the right direction for which they were established? Here is the question of what is said by the assessment of the work of the municipal editors since the adoption of the Law on municipal registrarship. The proposal for amendments to such a law must certainly also be faced with what the profession says, and I can also say a little of a policy, which in this case, I can say that in a number of cases, you are also quite opposed. If we compare such views, there are important warnings relating to the training of the editors themselves, in particular to the exercise of their powers. It is indeed necessary to recognise, until they are fully qualified to carry out these tasks, the use of preventive means and devices may be problematic. There are also criticisms that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Municipal Government has insufficiently defined problems that require these amendments, which are contained in the proposal itself. Even so far as these views are concerned, it also raises the so-called question of whether such a change can touch, even if gravely, I say privatisation of the police. In short, it is estimated that there may be very problematic excesses of powers and abuses, which have already been exposed several times in the debate, and related procedures, of which I am also joining individuals who have stressed in the opening presentation that control of these procedures is essential. However, I completely disagree with the respected France Trčko, who has somehow stated that such a proposal is a stepping stone. I had to point it out here because I do not agree with this if we really look at the proposal for such a change. Why can I say it categorically? This amendment was responded to by local communities or their representatives and, in this case, by the municipalities. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia is responsible for supporting the amendment of the law, as they are convinced that an agreement has been reached, regardless of whether all their proposals or initiatives to amend the existing law have been taken into account. They are pleased, however, that a number of matters have been taken into account in this concept or in the proposal for a law. What they particularly point out is that it is important for them to participate in this process by all key stakeholders. So, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Justice Department, the General Police. In this case, the information officer, the registrar's union and also the municipalities. It is said that here in this concept the proposal was agreed or in a prior procedure coordinated by a number of consensus on the content itself. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia also reports that no new mandate has been added in the proposal for a new law, which has also been slightly indicated in some way. But what is important to them is that this bill eliminates the anomalies and harmonisation of the provisions with the applicable profession, and what is particularly stressed by them is that the appropriate working methodology is somehow implemented. It was also clear from the debate itself that, under the applicable Law on Municipal Orders, the editor could practically do nothing if the perpetrator of the crime was caught, if I could say so, whether he received the crime service on the spot, or if the perpetrator did not follow the director's orders and instructions. What is particularly disturbing to them is that in the process of dealing with the editor, he wants to avoid it, and in the end, he is sometimes ignored. These are circumstances which, by amending this law, would certainly contribute to the exercise of their powers or tasks in order to minimise such matters. Another expressed its affection for this law, if I may call it a group of associations, and this is the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, which also joins in such a position as communicated by the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Some pointed out in the debate whether Slovenia was becoming even more a police state with this proposal for amendments to the law. I must admit that I can say no and join all those who think or think that way. The fact is, the police have significantly greater powers than they do. And what is at least very important to me in this bill is, above all, the fact that this amendment clearly defines and commits municipal officials to use coercive resources primarily on the basis of the principle of proportionality. Many times this is expressed and also used in our thinking. The fact is that the importance of this principle of proportionality is that, in such procedures, the kindest means of achieving it or, if I may say so, the realization of what is responsible for it. And in the end. The essence of this is, and I will repeat what I have given in the debate, several times already, that municipal officials must therefore also be properly trained by applying the principle of proportionality and, most importantly, that they are also supervised. I personally believe that this proposal for amendments to the Law on the Civil Society is appropriate for a further legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, and then Dr. Mitja Horvat should be prepared. Here you go, please. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I have to say that I find it very difficult to understand all those who, although I haven't dealt with this matter for a while, but I find it very difficult to understand those who scream about the police state, write petitions and I don't know what it is. That's incomprehensible to me. I don't know, but maybe there's something else I can learn from this. But see if today we have in our existing law in this area written that a congregation editor can keep someone on the spot, and now explain to me how this is done physically. What would that look like if he did it physically? And if that person says, "When you eat, you move on." [[…]] Then how can he keep it if he can't use any physical force, he can't use anything? What? Is this how he's gonna walk around him or what? Yeah, for God's sake, it's a marriage hole! So we need to give the officers that authority to physically grab him. Yeah, what else is he gonna do? Or he'll use spray. After all, we yell about this spray or tear gas or whatever we call it, as if I don't know what it is, and you can buy it in any event. You can buy it in every book and put it in your pocket. But there's something else. I think it would suggest that if I said in general where the course of events should go in my opinion. At this point, we're giving these officers who are local police officers for my terms, and I think the law on local police should already have the title, yes, what else. By 1999, they had nothing, they waved to tourists, and what kind of carnations they shared, and there was nothing else. Then that first marriage came and the second marriage, and so on and always went in the right direction. We are now at some point where they can deal with public order and peace and transport to a limited extent, which is prescribed. I also remember the debate before 2006: “Yes, how? Now the director will be able to stop the driver?" Yes, of course he will. Why not? The direction of events should continue in my opinion. We should increase the authority of the editors without any fear of Jankovic's being here or I don't know which police, because it's out of the question. Today I'm surprised, I don't know what's in the air, that Möderndorfer and I agree, but obviously we do. We should increase the scope of tasks and powers. That's all there is to it. It's the only logical course, all countries going in this direction. After all, tell me why a state cop or a criminalist, if you want, has to deal with someone who steals from a store, like pate or something else. Why should a state police officer deal with this? You can be a local cop or you can be a local cop today. All we have to do is give him the authority to do the job. The point is not that we extend powers and tasks to so-called directors. We have to go this way. More needs to be done this way. The language needs to be changed to the local police. But at the same time, this is now another story, and at the same time knowledge education and supervision of their work are approaching police standards. It's no different. I used to talk about complaints, and I said something wrong, and I have to fix it. Look, we've got the whole procedure written today, what it's like to use coercive means if it comes to them. But the epilogue isn't. We have written in law today, and I went there just before to consult them because I have no law before me so that citizens can complain about their work. Well, then it's over. Then the mayor decides what it's like. Look, this has to be sharpened. You can't complain about complaints about police work today, but you can't complain if someone hasn't said good day to someone, because that's not a complaint yet. It's a human rights issue. But here we should bring the standards closer to the police and bring them so far that the mayor won't be the one to decide. So the mayor decides about someone who works for him. We know what that's like. It's nothing. Police standards are different in this area. Complaints shall be decided by independent groups of experts of citizens who are not employed by the police, who are not employed at the Ministry of the Interior, but are generally appointed even by local communities. Something like this should, in my opinion, be brought into this law in order to increase these standards of control over their work. It's the only logical and true course. Every fear of having too much authority does not, in my opinion, sit. But why can the story work in Graz, why does it work in Trieste, why does it work, I don't know, in Budapest? If things work out there, if they have local police there, then I see no reason not to have them with us. I'm just stressing what I said, standards need to be brought closer to police standards, all standards, education, knowledge, training. We can't have someone right now, I don't know exactly what the situation is, I'm sorry, but we can't have someone who's going to have a three-month schnapp, which would be unlikely to perform such challenging tasks as this. In short, the approximation of standards in all areas, and the standards in force in the police force, it seems to me that the right path and a little less fear in this area will be fine. But we agree, I think for the first time in a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Dr. Nic Bezovar has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u254	Mr Vice President, thank you for your input. First, if you'll excuse me, thank the Members for a very interesting substantive debate. I have to say that there has been a lot of talk, and I would just like to place some emphasis here. For example, the principle of proportionality was repeatedly mentioned. It is true that when we speak of these measures or powers, the editor will always have to be careful to use the kindest means appropriate at that time. Perhaps in cases of fear of human rights violations, I should refer to the appeal procedure. The appeal procedure shall be decided by a committee composed of a representative of non-governmental organisations, those non-governmental organisations in the field of human rights protection, and by a representative of the Police and a representative of the municipalities. There was also a great deal of fear of misuse of certain coercive means. As regards the practice itself, an analysis was carried out in 2013 and I can say that only 34 % of the red tape recorded the application of the detention measure and even 13 % of the redundancies using one of the coerced assets. As far as this is concerned, I would like to point out that monitoring following the current proposal will be more regulated, simpler and more transparent. I would like to reiterate that there are no increasing powers, so there is no expansion of measures, not an increase in their number, but merely a change of two of these measures. All that changes is identification and retention itself, so how it can be done. Let me also reiterate our view that we insist that the municipal government remains as a separate local public service, that it is a completely separate service from the police, with different tasks and powers. As far as the question of Ambassador Muršič is concerned, I would like to stress that we will send it back later, because we do not know it at present. But I would also like to say something that seems important to me now in this debate and has already been mentioned. The proposal for amendments to the law has indeed been widely coordinated, both with the Community of Municipalities, as mentioned above, with unions and wider and in some ways enjoys broad support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Since time has not yet been spent, we still have a chance to discuss, so please apply. A government representative may also apply by pressing the key on the microphone. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u256	I forgot to reply earlier to Mrs Muršič, who was talking about the number of police officers, how little they were and so on. The data isn't exactly accurate. Slovenia is one of those countries that has the highest number of police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. So it doesn't hold. But it's true that we have 600 kilometers of this border that requires 3,000 people. However, we also have a very unusual organisation, including that of 600 police officers on duty in Slovenia. You won't find this anywhere in the world. Now the person in Ljubljana will almost die because the phone has to pick up, and the one in Mozir can sleep because that phone doesn't ring for a week together. So it's not a lack problem, it's an organization problem. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby interrupt the agenda item and also the 25th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 18.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u258	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 3, 6, 14, 16, 22, 18, 13 and 15 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda this is the consideration of the draft law on the provision of conditions for the implementation of strategic investment in the development area in the Municipality of Hoče - Slivnica by emergency procedure. We shall proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 15 May. 12. 2016, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 54. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u259	Thank you for your word. We will not support this law in the United Left. There was a lot of talk about arguments why not, so I won't say it again. The main reason is that the law is potentially unconstitutional, since it is contrary to Article 67 of the Constitution and also the 71st, which speaks of agricultural land. Just this afternoon, I heard Mr Cveto Zupančič from the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber mentioning that 100 hectares of fertile agricultural land are to provide thousands of 500 jobs. So we're going to build a thousand jobs on agricultural areas. In short, we are against the use of first-class agricultural land, we could find other locations, we know there are enough. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u260	An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u261	Today, for example, Member Han said that this was an unnecessary and meaningless debate, Member Ranc said that we were talking about how we were doing and that we could not decide whether we would be in favour or against. And I think today's debate has been useful, but it has said a lot and revealed a lot, and in particular it has revealed all the misery of Slovenian business space, and this is that we need to adopt a special law to make an investment in order to realize it. I think that says it all and there's no need to add anything. But to those of you who contradicted our words, I say the following. Our discussions were all focused on the fact that this law refers to the fact that Slovenian entrepreneurs and craftsmen do not have the same opportunities and standards as this foreign company will have. A special law shall be adopted for this purpose by a foreign company. Many Slovenian entrepreneurs are waiting years and years for changes in municipal spatial plans to expand their business halls, their production premises. And that doesn't seem the same to us. And that's why you can't expect our vote for, because if you gave our vote for, then you'd say that everything in this country is in the best order, that it's great to squeeze in honey and milk, that there's finally foreign investment coming back and that everything's okay. We do not want to give such a message because it is simply not true with the actual situation. Not to repeat what others have also pointed out, however, that despite poor self-sustainment, we are building a factory on the best agricultural land, especially in Maribor, which was an industrial city, a hugely degraded area, says a lot. Anyone who wants to understand us, who doesn't, will always find his own theory.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u262	The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The SDS Group will support the bill. Not because he agrees with such a method, so to speak, to set up a special law, but because he seeks to get the economy a new impetus. The special law we are preparing shows the misery of the Slovenian business environment, which we can say under this government, is further exacerbated. That is why we must adopt such a law. When I was at dinner with Mr France Stratch four years ago, and when I was offering him Slovenia and Styria as a strong business environment, he had already set some conditions. I said that Pooh was a Styrian, he was a Prlek, and today I somehow revealed this story. Unfortunately, Mr Pagech could not have promised that at the time, because he was waiting for a new treaty. Magna Steyr has basically two categories of employees with its 90 thousand employees. One is the engineering part, i.e. the engineering development part, the other is the contract manufactory part, they make cars, because large manufacturers have too little capacity, and there are also many doubts about any model that could succeed on the market, and then they put Magna Steyr into finishing. Magna Steyer, all those of you who have also talked about ecology meet the highest environmental standards. Today, for example, painting one car, which has been determined by doubts in some colleagues, water varnishes and all the robot support they have, is less harmful than painting one wooden window, where you need to lubricate it with insecticides and later with varnishes. Therefore, this ignorance, or doubt, is superfluous in some production. The second issue is agricultural land. All those who take the highway to Gradec will see left and right from Šentilj to Gradec a number of agricultural land where today the industrial centres of Graz are. And it was once Maribor, 100 years ago, Gradec as some capital of Styria, Austria and Slovenia. At the time, when Gradec was the capital, Gradec was barely the cultural part of Styria and Maribor was the main industrial part. If this investment by Mr Pagech in Hoče succeeds, it means that Maribor gets the first point and returns to the old industrial glory, and we want Styrians. That is why we want this support both by the Slovenian Democratic Party and by all Stajers, we want to return its industrial glory to Maribor. I believe this is a start, so we will support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u264	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government after a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 3 and 5. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Articles 3 and 5 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 49. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 has not been adopted, the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 3 and 5 have become irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the labour market would make the proposal inconsistent. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u265	Thank you for your word. In the United Left, we will support the mayor's appeal, which we introduce into law. Democracy in this country is going back particularly intensively in the mandate of this government and in the mandates of previous governments. Why? First, the political authorities took away our people's referendum. In this mandate, the current coalition, when winding the right hand of Slovenian people, has also submitted to the yoke of fiscal rule. The Instance of Direct Democracy has thus experienced a complete grading. Citizens can no longer decide on things that have any financial impact and financial implications. But that's the kind of thing that most people in this country are most intimate about, and they can't make decisions about them. Of course that's not right. One of our final objectives in the United Left is to democratise society in all the Estonians and one of the intermediate stages to return the referendum to the people and the yoke of fiscal rule from the Constitution. The introduction of the mayor's recall institute is finally a step forward in the right direction, towards the democratisation of society. I am pleased that the votes of the United Left at this meeting contribute to the adoption of this law, which, without the socialist support of the spine, would not be possible at all. So this law will be supported in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u266	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 19. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railway Safety in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present and 49 votes against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Archive Material, which contains personal information on the treatment of the patient under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 66 Members and Members were present and 58 were voted against and 1 were present. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Municipal Editorial. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Municipal Government is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 45 votes against and 6 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision so that the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local administration as the home labour body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE KINGDOM OF MAROCO ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBLE DUTIES AND THE PREVENTION OF Tax ACCOUNTS The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u267	Dear President, honourable Members, good evening! You have before you the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion relating to income taxes. Currently, 57 double taxation conventions are applied between Slovenia and other States Parties, while the conclusion of such conventions for the economy and citizens removes tax barriers to trade and investment between countries and protects the country's interests in preventing tax evasion. Such a convention between Slovenia and Morocco has not yet been concluded but is important. Morocco has several times more GDP than Slovenia, has a population of more than 30 million euros, has significant raw materials, ports and so on. So it is the right country to increase cooperation or trade between Slovenia and Morocco, so that both our societies and citizens will benefit from it and on the other hand. Slovenia's negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement were based on an already existing draft convention prepared under the OECD Model Convention and the views given to each article. It was signed on 5 April 2016 in Rabat. It was signed for Slovenia by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and for Morocco by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of Morocco. The Convention, through various mechanisms, allows for the elimination of double taxation, increases the security of taxpayers, prevents tax discrimination, allows the resolution of tax disputes, as well as the exchange of information for tax purposes and assistance in tax collection. The format of the contract already contains updates that were discussed in the recent update of the agreement with India, which was earlier than the date and was therefore also part of this update. In line with the latest developments and efforts to modernise, this Treaty will also be the candidate for changes to the network of around three thousand international tax treaties to which the second year will take place if the Kingdom of Morocco and Slovenia give their consent. In accordance with the request of the competent committee of the National Assembly, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided written additional explanations on the issues raised at the meeting. On the basis of this, I propose that the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion relating to income taxes be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u268	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u269	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we will oppose an agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco. Why? 150 years ago, a handful of European countries submitted to the world. Great empires have emerged, colonies have emerged in Latin America, Southeast Asia, and, last but not least, Africa. But this hegemony of capitalist imperialism began to break particularly after World War II. Throughout the 50s, 60s, and 70s, and later, the liberation movements of peoples who did not want to live under Western boots were swept away. Often, our comrades socialists and communists have also become part of these liberation movements. Today we can say that formal imperialism and colonialism are things of the past. Except in that one case where the colony still insists. This one colony is the Western Sahara. Her invader of the Kingdom of Morocco. The United Nations had already made the case very clear 25 years ago. That is exactly how long the people of Western Sahara are expecting a referendum in which to declare which country they want to live and how they want to regulate their common future. But this referendum is in vain. And while this referendum is in vain, the Kingdom of Morocco is illegally and illegally moving people and looting natural resources belonging to the inhabitants of Western Sahara. Until Western Sahara is free, we will not support such agreements in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u270	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 5. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Pharmacy Activities in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 13. 12. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Government or the Legislative and Legal Service did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, chairman. We in the United Left are very happy to have been able to prevent large pharmaceutical suppliers from owning private concessional pharmacies. This is extremely important because the entry of these pharmaceutical wholesalers would be known on the sale of medicines in a very poor sense. These co-owners of private pharmacies or entire chains of private pharmacies would put pressure on concessionaires, on pharmacists to increase profits. And the only way for a pharmacy to raise profits is to increase the sale of drugs. Fortunately, the amendment of the United Left was adopted, which prevented it. This amendment has supported 40 Members of the National Assembly, for which I thank them very much in this place. Finally, one of the stated objectives of the new pharmacy law is to avoid excessive use of medicines. And if we let big pharmaceutical suppliers of pills and everything else into pharmacies and chains of pharmacies, we'd let the fox in the chicken coop. But as we said, thank God, we stopped it. Unfortunately, this was not the only problem with the new pharmacy law. It will still be possible for concessionaires, share owners, to sell half their pharmacy to a third party. Of course, this third person will not invest in the pharmacy from the depths of his heart’s goodness, but will expect a return. So we can still expect effects on drug sales, we can still expect pressure on pharmacists and concessionaires to sell more drugs, but fortunately, because we cut off large pharmaceutical suppliers, these pressures will not be so systematic and will not be cost-effective. However, they will still appear and are still problematic. The next problem with this law is that it unfairly treats public pharmacies in relation to private pharmacies. In the United Left, we proposed an amendment to allow concessionaires to contribute to municipal budgets which could be used only for the development of pharmacy activities and for the development of health activities, as this law provides for public pharmacies. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been supported. Last but not least, here is the question of what will happen to the two public Grossists, the ones in Maribor and the ones in Ljubljana. In the United Left, we want them to be transferred either to the country or to the congregation. We don't want them to be liquidated or privatized.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u272	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 18. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Drivers Act under the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 13. 12. 2016, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Government or the Legislative and Legal Service did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation of voice. On behalf of the Group, the United Left will present Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u273	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for your word, President of the National Assembly. Thank you for your word, colleague Milan. Our Matthew is absent because he has been twisted by his spine and is President of the Rules of Procedure Commission. It's true what was said. If less than a tenth of the articles of the law are amended, the same meeting of the National Assembly may be held. There were relatively few of us sitting in the Chamber when this law was being considered, but this is not a criticism, we are doing something else, and the public is not well informed. But the ones we discussed from the opposition, we have, I must say, discussed very well and pointed out a whole range of still open cases. Comrade Hainz of Desus, colleague Dani of the SDS, colleague Tonin, me, we've been approached by a whole bunch of high school. There's still a whole series of open questions if I just point out three. On the one hand, in small rural schools where there is only one activity, there is a form of espionage, on the other hand you have a problem of forced espionage of certain instructors. Another such problem is the problem that I then illustrated, which is similarly related. A graduate nurse with people who have auto schools, and they still have a few years to retire, and they actually need because they only have a high school, a professional school manager, because somehow we're talking to them. It's not funny, just growl. [[…]] In a conversation with them, we were suggested to have a marriage so that the professional head of the school could be the maximum leader in two auto schools. The third is a question that colleague Hainz had a bit of a turn of Desus' populism, and I would have extended it, whether the personal physician would have set fire to whether we were capable of driving or anyone else. These are some issues that are open and that are not adequately addressed by this law. In the SMC, my fellow Zorčič, who basically felt a little sorry for such activities, was somehow excusing and coming out of his ego of the word figure that it was not so. My proposal was where the law goes on a regular basis, despite the fact that less than a dozen votes are being amended, that we take advantage of this issue, that we are substantive in understanding the rules of procedure, that we sleep the matter over the committee again, that serious parliaments often come together to the amendments and that we make some law that will be optimal. Unfortunately, we will be over-voted in this and the United Left of this type of formal legal literacy will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-12-15-SDZ7-Redna-25.ana.u274	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
