ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, dear ministers. I shall proceed with the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which was convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Marinka Levičar, Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Mr Franc Laj, Dr Bojan Dobovšek, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Marko Ferluga, Dr. Franz Duck and Mr Roberto Battelli. Representatives of the Government were invited to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. I also welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar. Before we move on to the first item of the agenda, I invite the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, to brief the National Assembly on the international day of the fight against violence against women. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u2	Respectable citizens and citizens, esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Government. Today 66 years ago, in the Dominican Republic, the mercenaries of the self-proclaimed generalism and dictator Rafael Trujilla were brutally beaten and murdered by the famous three Mirabal sisters, the revolutionary and the struggles to restore democracy and respect for fundamental freedoms in this small Caribbean country. But while Trujilla swallowed the dark side of history, Mirabal sisters became a symbol of both human and feminist rebellion. The General Assembly of the United Nations declared the day of their tragic death just before the end of the millennium an international day to combat violence against women. It is also right that we remember this mark today in the National Assembly. We live in a time when we cannot and must not afford violence against women indifferent and indecisive. Moreover, we must be aware of the various forms and motives of such violence, from demonstrations of power and political discredits to discipline and revenge. Violence against women occurs in a wide range of unacceptable acts, both in physical assaults and emotional abuse, personal and sexual harassment, as well as deliberate and deliberate material deprivation. The fact that many societies around the world, which unfortunately sometimes find our own acts of violence, are still too often perceived as understandable, defensive or even honorable is evidence that partisan discourses are still tolerated if they do not even approve of individual forms of male violence. Violence against women is the clearest relic of historical gender inequality, which has led and continues to lead to manifest and structural discrimination against women. Gender equality policies must therefore start with decisive and unconditional violence against women. Here and now. While violence against women still seems to be a lot of taboo at the turn of the millennium, something that is not mentioned is something that too many victims still hide at all costs and without hope to call for help suppress in the abyss of their memory and shame. But I hope to say that in this area we are moving in the right direction today and that we are increasingly aware of the consequences and frequency of violence in the family, rape, including among partners, harassment at work and other forms of violence, even crimes that women should not have even mentioned in the public a few decades ago. The movement for women's rights has strengthened our community's awareness of this, our collective resistance. They revealed complex, sometimes even formal and socialized networks of culprits and accomplices, allowing the abuser to act smoothly and unpunished by their reprisals. It is also worrying that we are not aware of those groups of women who, due to special circumstances, are still further vulnerable, from members of minority communities, refugee and migrant women, to older women and those living in the most remote parts of the country. In the context of the fight against violence against women, further care and attention must be paid to those who are threatened with multiple-layer discrimination. Dear citizens and citizens, distinguished fellow Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! We must learn and act all – parents, teachers, partners, old and young, especially us, citizens and citizens, who have the power to encourage, design, adopt and enforce appropriate measures that will turn violence against women into a thing of the past. In last year's ratification of the so-called Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe, we adopted a promise that Slovenia will never again turn its back on women to prevent, protect and punish violence against women and the perpetrators. We have made this promise, aware of all the obligations to fulfil it, so allow me to express in conclusion my unwavering expectation that the Government will take all necessary measures before the end of this mandate to withdraw reservations to the Convention, which it has implemented at the time of its ratification. It's not just our promise, it's our duty. Violence against women constitutes a serious and rejected violation of fundamental human rights and freedoms that are inalienable and unconditionally belong to all, women and men. But this violence is not inevitable, far from it. We can stop him, and we have to stop him. That is why I want the spirit of Sister Mirabal to live among all of us today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 21 November, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. We have a problem with the voting device, just a moment. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision declaring a constitutional act on Supplement III. Chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 24th meeting, on 17 November 2016, the National Assembly adopted the Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 182 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall declare the Constitutional Law no later than eight days after its adoption, unless at least 30 Members and Members request that the amendment of the Constitution be submitted for confirmation to the electorate at the referendum. The request for a referendum has not been submitted, so the National Assembly may declare a constitutional law supplementing the third chapter of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Law of the National Assembly shall be proclaimed by the adoption of a decree on the declaration. The draft decree was tabled by the Constitutional Commission for its consideration. To further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The National Assembly will be held at the following 24th session. 11. 2016 unanimously adopted the Constitutional Act supplementing III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and new Article 70a of the Constitution regulates the right to drinking water. Article 171 of the Constitution provides that the amendments to the Constitution shall enter into force by a declaration in the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly further specify in Article 182, paragraph 1, an act by which the National Assembly declares the constitutional law amending the Constitution. Thus, no later than eight days after the adoption of the constitutional law at the plenary session, the National Assembly must adopt a decree declaring the constitutional law in question. This can be done if, in the meantime, no constitutional law has been passed or if the constitutional amendment of the Constitution has been confirmed in the Constitutional Referendum. The Constitutional Commission shall be in the context of the first resumed emergency meeting of 3. 11. Having regard to the Decree establishing the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly as having jurisdiction to consider the draft proposal for a decree on a declaration, it adopted and decided that the proposal for a decision should be tabled in the adoption procedure immediately after the adoption of the constitutional law in question. Respected and respected! You have before you the Proposal for a Decree proclaiming the Constitutional Law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by which, if adopted today, if the decree is adopted, the constitutional law will enter into force and the right to drinking water will enter into force. Therefore, the Constitutional Commission proposes to Members and Members that, at today's 37th extraordinary session, it should vote in favour of the proposed decree declaring the constitutional law in question. In doing so, let me thank all those who participated in the constitutional audit debate and helped to successfully conclude the constitutional audit process, with which we also provided our children with drinking water in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Today, we will take the final step in the National Assembly to record the right to drinking water in the Constitution. Now, at the end of this journey, we can look proudly at what we have achieved, but at the same time we must look back at the challenges ahead. Although the right to drinking water may at first seem to be self-evident, practices in the world show that this is not the case. The pressure of private multinational corporations to privatise water resources is increasing. Capital is simply thirsty for a bigger profit. The water under his public goods tactics turns into market goods, goods that can only be afforded if you can pay for them. The dangers I'm talking about are not something abstract and distant. They are very specific and we also encounter them in Slovenia, although due to the abundance of drinking water we do not yet feel as strong as in some other countries. However, this is probably the reason why Slovenia has found itself in the midst of the capital interests that want water for itself in the face of all the serious consequences of climate change and the ever-increasing supply of water. The management of plumbing is already privately owned in some municipalities. For example, Kamnik, Krško and Ormož. Private operators show profits each year and households provide water supplies as suppliers of comparable municipalities where the supply is provided by a public undertaking. The 30-year concessions granted to the private beverage industry, which draws water practically free, are a shame to lose words. It is unheard of that during the process of amending the Constitution, the Ministry of the Environment and Space continued to grant new concessions, concessions whereby private people draw drinking water for less than 2 euros per thousand litres. They therefore pay less than a tenth of a cent for a semi-litre bottle of water, which can be sold in the store for half a euro and more. The unwise distribution of water-pulling and supply concessions has brought us into a position where the recording of the right to drinking water into the Constitution has become a necessity. Of course, this right in itself does not mean anything if it is water resources and private supply. Therefore, in the United Left, we are pleased that the recording of the right to drinking water is accompanied by records that prevent the privatisation of water resources and the supply of drinking water as a non-profit public service. This is the only one that does not allow profit-making to be forged in the supply of this basic good of life. Today's vote on the Constitutional Law decree will show that Slovenia can resist the insatiable appetites of capital. To be able to resist making profits by mixing with basic necessities of life and to be able to put a man ahead of profit. But water is not the only public good threatened by the appetites of capital. That is why today's success must serve as an incentive to fight for public interest in all areas. Public health and education, labour rights and standards, the clean environment, all this capital sees as unused areas for creating new profits. In the United Left, we firmly believe that a strong social state is the foundation of every just society. That's what we're fighting for. We have been all too often faced with the fact that, despite being enshrined in the Constitution, these rights have been systematically violated due to the political and economic interests of a handful. Therefore, following the example of the record of the right to drinking water in the Constitution, we will have to introduce some additional security guards into the future. To conclude, I would like to touch upon education, which is already undergoing a constitutional change process, which would clearly draw a distinction between public and private. In the United Left, we hope that today's adoption of the Constitutional Law decree will put the wind in the sails for new progressive changes in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u7	Mrs Iva Dimic will postpone the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u8	Dear Chairman, the entire government team, colleagues and colleagues! Only today's vote separates us from the beginning of the historic amendment of the Constitution of Slovenia, as the coalition stressed last week when it was easy to vote on the constitutional law and wrote down the right to drinking water in the Constitution. It is logical that today, with the adoption of the decree on the declaration, it will make a formal wage, and then all citizens will have another right in the constitution, which in itself does not mean the actual provision of drinking water and the construction of a water network. In Novi Slovenija, we are already adopting a proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure and to adopt a constitutional law on Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution have been highlighted by a number of dilemmas. Let's do it again. Even now, Article 72 of the Slovenian Constitution provides sufficient legal basis for the implementation of the Environmental Protection Act and the Economic Public Services Act. The provision of drinking water is a compulsory public service provided by the congregations through their directors or in a public economic institution. In both cases, we are talking exclusively about the non-profit performance of this service. Even if a concession is granted for the supply of drinking water, this does not mean that the water is privatized at home. Whoever cites such claims does not know the basic concept of the concession system or is deliberately misleading. It would be unacceptable for people and households with drinking water to completely exclude the possibility of granting concessions to domestic or foreign companies or the concessions already granted. This would leave this area, in practice, to the state in its entirety. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the Republic of Slovenia must maintain ownership of water resources and ensure effective and sovereign authority, including regulation and control. If water resources are publicly owned by the Republic of Slovenia, so if the rules are clearly defined, it does not matter who is the supplier of drinking water supply – the local community, concessionaires or other forms of public-private partnership. In our view, the country must perform only regulatory and supervisory functions, particularly in determining the price of water. The legal regimes of water resources, drinking water supply infrastructures and the provision of public drinking water services alone must be such as to prevent private interest from taking precedence over public and forging profits at higher prices and falling quality of supply. For these reasons, the Christian Democrats of the last paragraph of the draft Constitutional Law, which provides that the supply of drinking water and water to households is provided by the State through self-governance local communities and directly and non-profitly, we have not supported. The fact is that this paragraph abolishes the award of concessions and lice water supply. It is known that 13% of people in Slovenia do not have the opportunity to provide water supply within public services, but are dependent on their own water supply. The logical question follows is what will help these citizens to write down the right to drinking water into the Constitution if we are no longer able to be supplied from the village water pipelines. These indisputable findings are also pointed out by the municipal council of the congregation of Kozje, which we received at the National Assembly yesterday. They call on the Constitutional Commission to take account of the legal arrangements so far in which municipalities have to provide public water in areas in accordance with the operational drinking water supply programme and in other areas, citizens provide this supply themselves. They strongly reject the solutions of the last paragraph, which stipulates that the State provides for the provision of drinking water and water to households through self-government communities directly and non-profit, as this in fact means interference with the original jurisdiction of the municipalities. In Novi Slovenija, we will not object to the motion for a decree declaring the Constitutional Law, just as we did not oppose the Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u9	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today is an important day when the right to drinking water will be definitively enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you to all Members and Members for achieving the common objective, this is the record of the right to drinking water for all. Water is our greatest wealth and it is right to treat it with care and to protect it. In 2010, the General Assembly of the United Nations declared the right to drinking water as a fundamental human right and it is time for Slovenia to follow it definitively. Almost two years ago, in the Alliance, we started procedures to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the aim of protecting water and making it accessible to all. It is a universal and fundamental human right, with which our descendants will be particularly confronted in the future. It is true that water resources are still relatively intact today and that we still have very good and quality water in Slovenia right now, but the latter can change very quickly by potentially interfering with nature and its pollution. In some parts of the world, unfortunately, water is no longer a good that is freely accessible and available to all. Too often, people drink from contaminated sources or have to walk away from home for water. It is also important to note the alarming situation with regard to the situation of the Roma population, which are still not afforded access to drinking water. The fact that in 21 of the 105 Roma settlements in the family, access to drinking water is not possible is more than worrying. In 2010, a United Nations human rights expert drew attention to this fact. The fundamental human right, which is certainly a violation of the right of access to drinking water, is, at least as regards the Roma population, a continuing violation. This is what the Ombudsman and Amnesty International Slovenia remind each year in their annual reports. That is also why today's declaration of the right to drinking water in the Constitution is still important. The fundamental act of the State does not change every day, so in the Alliance we have given special attention to every step that has led us to today's conclusion. The process of amending the Constitution has been a long one, so we are even more pleased today that all our efforts have achieved their objective and purpose. Several amendments and concerns were tabled during the procedure. In particular, we received quite a few comments from the congregations, which were finally successfully resolved by constructive dialogue. In the Alliance, we created a compromise proposal under the first initiative to introduce the right to drinking water into the Constitution, which clearly defined the relationship between the State and the municipalities in the supply of water. In this way, we have resolved the concerns of the municipalities regarding the competence to provide and distribute drinking water. Together, honourable Members and Members, we have been able to write down article 70a, which will ensure in the future that everyone has the right to drinking water, that public resources will be public good in the management of the country and that water resources serve the priority and sustainable supply of drinking water and water to households and are not marketable goods in this part. The article continues to state the importance of ensuring that the supply of drinking water and water to households is provided by the State via the self-government local communities directly and without profit. This allows us to maintain that drinking water supply remains the responsibility of the congregations in the future and that any surpluses or profits in the public service can be devoted solely and solely to water supply. Despite today’s festive activity, our work is far from over. The fact is that today we are laying the foundation for all the actions that will take place in the future with regard to water-related activities. This is a new paradigm that provides international standards for making political and economic decisions on water resources. Today is the day when a legal framework is established to strengthen the State's responsibility for the realization of the right to water. Without water, life is a proverb worth remembering and putting into your heart. At a time when the world is facing severe water shortages, especially high-quality and healthy drinking water, when there are already and will be even more frequent water wars, when water is used than high-priced goods, our natural properties are truly important. Therefore, what will be the state of our water environment is important. For the water cycle is one, global. How global are the daily news published in the world media, which places Slovenia in the place of honour of the countries that have recognised the importance of water and recorded the right to it in the highest legal act of the country. In the Alliance, we are aware that there will be a need to amend the legislation further, with our fundamental objective being to undertake care for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we will continue to seek to actively raise public awareness of the importance of the attitude towards water in the future. Once again, thank you for your support and cooperation to all professional services, the interested professional public and you, honourable Members and Members, that water as a right is finally written in the Slovenian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u12	Thank you very much, distinguished President of the National Assembly - President of the Government, colleagues, government team, respected citizens and citizens, dear Slovenia! Tales, the first of the ancient Greek blues, called the water as the forerunner, prepped everything he lived. Water is the element from which it comes and into which it returns all its life. There are flood men and water fairies living in the water. They used to scare the dragons and the giants off the water. A stork, a water bird, brings newborns, a new life. Water brings health, happiness, good harvests, and prosperity. Water has always built the destiny of mankind in the history of mankind. Thus, it remains until today, and so it will be more and more in the future. Nearly two billion people on our planet today lack access to safe drinking water. Living in a country like ours, in a green country rich in water resources, is a great and priceless privilege, a gift of nature to which we must have the highest possible respect and responsibility. Today, by recording the right to safe drinking water and the record of natural water resources as a natural public good of the country, we also definitively lay down constitutional rights and obligations to ourselves and to our attitude towards nature. This commitment today is a reflection of our concern and protection of the environment, it is a reflection of our own and the health of others, it is a reflection of a responsible attitude towards future generations. We must also be extremely proud of today's event because we are doing this historic move with our hand in hand, in cooperation and connected. Because it goes beyond our daily political tensions. Because this move shows that we need and know to be open to cooperation, to the calls and needs that come from society and profession, from people. We must also be extremely proud of today's event because we prove that we know what it means and what modern democracy looks like through actions. Today, Slovenia is one of the few countries in the world that has achieved such success. With this decision, we are becoming a country of the future and an example to others. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party are congratulated on this occasion. Let him run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u13	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, for which the Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u14	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! Also on behalf of the SDS, the expression of support against violence against women. However, at the beginning of today's session, you may have thought for a moment how manipulative it is if, today's most loud fight against violence against women were those who, by their political conduct, taking over, acting and abandoning their duties, allowed half a million illegal migrants, who then carried out taharrus gameo in Cologne, the worst form of violence against women, who in Paris, with the participation of at least two terrorists who went through Slovenia in the migrant flow, killed the mothers of four children and committed many other incomprehensible crimes throughout Europe, and threatened and violently targeted women throughout the European Union. This is the difference between words and actions, ladies and gentlemen. This is unfortunately a red thread of left-wing rule, wherever they are. Today's act, too, is very interesting from this point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia we have this moment in power of the government and coalition, which, after a long time and after that, violate the Constitution. They violated the Constitution when it came to migrants – not only Slovenian, but also European and other international regulations – which clearly violate the Slovenian Constitution when it comes to fiscal rules, violate human rights, unlawfully take up mandates and do not implement decisions of the Constitutional Court, even when this is expressly detrimental to development and children. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't matter what it says in this act that we are adopting today because we have a government and a ruling coalition that violates the Constitution. It doesn't matter when the constitutional law is declared, how and how, because we have a government and a ruling coalition that doesn't respect what it says in this constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, here today is again a picture of the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has sent to this Parliament 14 days ago the budget for the next two years as a key act for Slovenia in an unconstitutional way, although the Government is headed by a constitutional lawyer. So it is a deliberate, deliberate violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. When you were taking a mandate here against the Constitution, I read to you what is constitutional order, three decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and five decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. But that's what you did. Because you knowingly violated constitutional order, it doesn't matter what it says today in this act you're taking because you're violating the Constitution. You deliberately violate it, you repeatedly violate it, and you break it long and hard. If I paraphrase the President of the National Assembly, it's a rejected act, and you know it. In order to cloud this, to further cover up the difference between words and actions, the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia will then be photographed at the time of the proclamation of one article of the Constitution, which the same government does not respect with its coalition. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the difference between words and actions. You're talking about water protection. The water has been protected so far and will also be protected at the constitutional level and also by appropriate legislation, but no one can protect it from the government and the ruling coalition that violates the Slovenian Constitution. It's purely pure pierre and sedition. Ladies and gentlemen, here we have listened when you changed these changes about some, as has already been said, of the disgusting capitalists who tighten their hands on Slovenian water. Run, come on. What's it like to have left-wings in power? Let's see. It has water in the hands of Heineken in Celje and Ljubljana. Radensko, which is a symbol of Slovenia, is in the hands of the Czech Republic. Costello is in the hands of the Arabs. You won't believe it, all of this happened when the leftist government was in their hands. So much for the difference between words and actions. And you're talking about protecting Slovenian water. Slovenian water is already protected. It is protected by the Constitution and must be so, because natural goods and an integral part of the living environment, which is human rights, are also enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution. That's why everything you do is nothing but cheap pear. But once again, it totally doesn't matter what it says in this act that we are adopting today, because we have a government and a ruling coalition that doesn't respect the constitution that they are consciously violating when it comes, for example, to migrants and to the fiscal rule that adopt the most important acts in an apparently unconstitutional way, like the budgets that were adopted just 14 days ago, but they come to be painted when the Slovenian Constitution is declared. Poor Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, all present, I welcome you! Today is the day that will enter the history of the Republic of Slovenia as the day of the long-standing desire to protect our country's greatest wealth, that is, drinking water, from the appetites of large corporations, which see water only as market goods. We'll do this with Supplement III. Chapters of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in which we will write that everyone has the right to drinking water, that water resources are publicly good in the management of the country and that water resources serve the priority and sustainable non-profit supply of drinking water to the population. In the Desus Group, we are delighted to join a handful of world countries that are aware of the limitations of this invaluable natural resource and to protect it at the highest possible level. Most parliamentary groups have managed to overlook political differences and to unite that in the light of global demographic and climate change, we do not allow water resources to privatise, destroy or serve only a handful of the richest. We must be aware that water is a common source of human survival and public goods. Therefore, access to it must be a fundamental and general right of all. Such a position is also supported by the European Parliament, which in many resolutions opposes the liberalisation of the water sector and the United Nations. United Nations analyses on access to clean drinking water reveal that 783 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation. UNICEF reports that thousands of 400 children under the age of five die each day due to diarrheic diseases resulting from contaminated water, inadequate sanitary conditions and lack of hygiene. We must be aware that by 2050 there are already 9 billion people on Earth. This means that during one generation the number of people will increase by more than all humans on earth at the beginning of the 20th century. This, however, is a strong pressure on water resources, respected and respected. At the same time, it should be noted that natural resources, including drinking water, are those for which financial analysts estimate that they will be most profitable in the future. Without much analysis, we can find that water will always be needed for survival and development. Water will enable corporations to operate in the near and distant future, so their interest in this good is increasing. In the world, 70% of all water, 20% for industry and 10% for households is used for agriculture. In industrialised countries, more than half of the available water is used for industry. By entering the constitution to provide drinking water to non-profit public services, we send a very clear signal to Europe and the Council that water supply will not be intended in Slovenia to generate profits, but will provide access to drinking water and water supply to human rights. Finally, I would also like to point out that Slovenia has succeeded within the European Union by demanding that a specific chapter on water be introduced into the international agreement of CETA. This also proves our country's interest in protecting water resources. This has made it clear that we do not care what happens to water in the years and centuries to come. We can only hope that other countries will follow our example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u17	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u18	Dear President, President of the Government, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The civilizational development and globalisation of the community we are part of have unfortunately led us to the point where we need to protect people from the free hand of the market, including the most basic good, water, as a human right of origin. Fortunately, this time, at least so I hope, everyone in this assembly is aware of the importance of access to drinking water for the inhabitants and, consequently, the need for the state or local community to regulate this area in a non-profit manner, by putting the right of the community to quality drinking water and to adequate quality of life in other areas of environmental policy above the right to private capital to profit and, in the context of the adoption of global agreements, also over the interests of international corporations. The right to drinking water will therefore be defined in the Constitution as one of the fundamental human rights, which means that, in addition to being self-evident today, it will also be protected at the highest level, i.e. constitutional level. This is particularly important because today we feel that access to quality drinking water is completely self-evident and unfortunately we often treat water wastefully, irresponsiblely, and purposelessly. Fortunately, people's awareness and policies, especially in developed countries, are changing with regard to the sustainable use of resources. Perhaps it is because we are increasingly faced with natural disasters, which are largely due to the global warming and irresponsible behaviour of man after the industrial revolution, when many households, and sometimes even regions or countries, are found in a situation where they are deprived of drinking water and when it is necessary not only for days but also for years, to implement intervention measures that save lives, human and animal health and sustainable environmental development due to the lack of clean drinking water. So water is a natural resource without which there is no life, so it simply needs to be carefully protected, especially at a time when at least we obviously do not live in a lack of drinking water. However, we need to think about the process that is ahead of us when global change can make the situation turn around and change. This, of course, while we are aware that the technology of drinking water already allows the use of technologically appropriate drinking water, however, technologically prepared water is quite different from the natural quality drinking water that we now have at our disposal in Slovenia. This is something worth keeping, that is something that is also worth writing in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of the fact that we live in a wider European community, today's decision - I hope that in the end it is also a positive one - can also be an incentive for other countries in the community. We ourselves can adopt the most advanced environmental policies, and we will face the same problems if we continue to have an unsustainable, non-economic and wasteful approach to the resources of our neighbours, our friends, our allies, rather than acting differently. That is why we hope that the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia will also be able to adequately defend and present today's entry of water into the Constitution and that advanced policies towards better behaviour and sustainable development will not only seek their domestic rights in Slovenia, but everywhere in the world, because it is a global issue. Of course, the Social Democrats will support the entry of water into the Constitution. As SMC Group leader said: Let it run!
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare the mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u20	Colleagues and colleagues! History is diverse and, in fact, full of war and peace. I am very fortunate to live in a period, time and space without war, at least in our geographical breadth. But we can't be naive. The conquest of the world continues in various forms. One of the increasingly dominant is the form carried out by large corporations, as they conquer the world with capital. They own countries and they own people. But this goes on too many occasions at the expense of the poor, at the expense of the middle layers, at the expense of national existence, at the expense of the integrity of the nations and, of course, at the expense of nature. This danger was also recognized by the civil society, which proposed the entry of drinking water into the constitutional dictatorship. She demanded this entry, and we accepted it in the National Assembly and, of course, we support them. I therefore hope that today we will adopt this decree in the protection of nations, peoples and nature. I hope the clean water runs for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u21	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u22	Your Honor! Politics teaches that only one third is what is written in the form of a legal norm, and two thirds are those who are then obliged to implement this legal norm. When it comes to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it binds everything. It is binding on Parliament, it is binding on the Government, so it should be implemented by all. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a country where there is an immense difference between words and actions for a part of the policy. Today, leftists have a two-thirds constitutional majority in the Slovenian Parliament and the Government has huge support whenever it wants it. However, this government does not implement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is headed by a constitutional lawyer. It violates constitutional principles consciously, purposefully, systematically and repetitively. Just a few cases. It has released more than half a million illegal migrants across the border of Slovenia, who should not be – not by the Constitution, not by law, not by international law, and thereby endangered citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and all members and members or all citizens and citizens of the European Union. This government, ladies and gentlemen, should have long since formed an appropriate body to give an opinion on the adoption of budgets relating to the fiscal rule, and it has not done so. She has a constitutional majority, and she didn't do it. The constitutional lawyer at the head of this government has deliberately sent to this Parliament two apparently unconstitutional acts, which have been adopted in an unconstitutional, unconstitutional way. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a real attitude towards constitutionality. So it doesn't matter what it says in this decree today, and what it says in what you declare to be a huge acquisition is really just a status quo. So far, the water has been well protected in the constitution, and there will be a later. The real problem facing us in Slovenia is that we have a power that does not respect the Constitution, which, despite warnings, is knowingly in violation of human rights, constitutional order, despite warnings, consciously. It's not just a matter of government, it's also a matter of a ruling coalition. At the time, everyone voted in favour of the illegal withdrawal of one mandate, but you were reminded of the constitutional principle. No one objected. That, ladies and gentlemen, is your real attitude towards the Constitution. That's why it doesn't matter what the Constitution says. And we could say something about consistency. You're referring to that U.N. sentence. That sentence speaks of two things, safe drinking water and the right to adequate sanitation. When you're still writing appropriate sanitation into the Constitution as a constitutional right, I'm wondering if she'll come back to paint the whole government. Although given her attitude towards the Slovenian Constitution, it would be a very symbolic act. Ladies and gentlemen, water is good, it must be protected, but people will do the most to protect water if they choose wisely. "Left is left and right is right." Left [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2016-11-25-SDZ7-Izredna-37.ana.u23	I conclude with a general debate. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decree proclaiming the Constitutional Act supplementing III. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members and Members, all those who attend this meeting are honoured. I am proud that in this mandate, including today's i-point, we have made such an important decision as to record the right to drinking water in the Constitution. A decision that has been carefully weighed and has shown that we are more than capable of bridging our differences at crucial times and of doing something that will not only be enshrined in the Constitution but also in the history of our country. To mark this achievement also solemnly, I invite you to the lobby to join us in toasting with a glass of our clear and good Slovenian waters. I conclude the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I'm informing you that the 38th emergency session will begin at 12 noon and 5 minutes. [[Applause]]
